ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:37]] Cards were registered in the 353 national deputies in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on March 3, 2011. Nineteen issues of the agenda have been considered, as a result of their consideration: two laws and 39 regulations have been passed, and 13 draft regulations have been rejected. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, an hour of questions to the Government is held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. Representatives of the deputy faction made an offer, during the "hour of questions to the government" to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the state of affairs in the educational field. Deputies: The Party of Regions, the Yulia Party of Timoshenko, the Father of Ukraine, the National Self-Defense Block, the Communist Party and the People's Party, based on part six of article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, were informed in advance by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the questions they would like to receive comprehensive answers. Dear National MPs, answering today will be Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco. I remind you, Your Honor, that the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine define such an order to conduct an "hour of questions to the Government." Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are asked about and answered by the deputy factions for 30 minutes. I mean, written questions that were sent in advance to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. When asked about the members of the Cabinet of Ministers directly in the session hall by the National Deputies, there are also 30 minutes. I would suggest that we honor our colleagues follow the rules. The question is one minute, the answer to the question is two minutes, I mean when I'm talking directly in the session room. What are the reasonings, objections, suggestions? You don't? Yeah. Dear national MPs, take this opportunity to welcome us all, on your behalf, with the celebration of March 8th, to the beautiful half of our society and to wish us beauty, youth and love. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, we're moving on to the question of an hour of questions to the government. I invite Dmitri Volodymyrovich Tobacco to the rostrum. Please. Dmitri Volodymyrovich, let's build this: one question at a time from each faction. Here we begin, there, the Party of Regions, BUT and Our Ukraine, the Communists, the People's Party, and then again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! More than 40 questions were received in writing from the factions of the Supreme Council. Question from the faction of "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland." Article 23 of the Higher Education Act, which was developed by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, introduces only a few criteria for determining the type of higher education facility. [[No. 7481]] For example, to recognize a university as a classic, it has to have at least 10,000 students. The question is, "What is the basis for pseudo-science calculations that have created these numerical indicators to determine the type of higher education facility?".. I'd like to say, Mr. Nationals, that Project No. 7486/1 was designed by a group of Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of various factions, and is not a product of the Ministry of Education. The introduction of new criteria for the definition of types of higher education institutions in a bill developed by the Ministry is now a subject of broad discussion and expert analysis, because the number of students, graduate students, PhD students is not just an external indicator of the quality of education. Normatives can also apply to the fields of knowledge and scientific expertise. There are proposals for the introduction of some generalized university indicators that best reflect the quality of the provision of educational services. As to the accusation of the pseudoscience of these criteria, I would like to remind you that in the draft law that was passed by the national MPs, the members of the BUT faction under the chairmanship of Vladimir Ivanovich Polochal, in 2009, the definition of the classic university of profile and the academy was based on quantitative indicators and you voted in favour of this bill in the hall. So your colleagues in Bill No. 7486 simply borrowed your seemingly positive experience. From the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" came the question. "According to the information available, the Ministry prepares a list of schools that are closed. Please publish this list, the number of such schools distributed by region and language. In particular, please provide information on the specific proportion of schools and classes in the Ukrainian language of education in the Donetsk and Lugansk region now and what this part will be if the school closing plans are implemented." I would like to say, honourable national MPs, that this question, unfortunately, shows that we can absolutely not rely on a legislative basis. I recall that under the Law on Local Self-Government and the Education Act, in all 20 years of independence, the Ministry of Education has not closed or opened any school, since it does not have the right and authority to do so under the law. The right to unite, to reorganize schools is reserved for local authorities. Hence, no school closure lists were prepared and could not be done by the Ministry to ensure that it did not violate existing legislation. At the same time, I want to remind you of some data from the State Statistical Committee. During the government's work under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Timoshenko in Ukraine, according to the State Statistical Committee, the number of secondary schools dropped by 640 units. In particular, during the 2009 moratorium on the closure of general educational institutions in rural areas, which was introduced by the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 19 December 2008 (No. 778-6), nearly 400 secondary schools were closed during 2009 alone. We carried out a detailed analysis of 2010 by decisions of local authorities that had been shut down and closed down 115 general secondary schools. Of course, that's a lot. That is why the Ministry has repeatedly consulted the heads of self - government authorities with recommendations on the need for clear enforcement of legislation regarding the deliberate development of plans to optimize the network with a mandatory public opinion. I would like to report that the issue of nonshortening educational institutions was discussed at the meeting of the heads of the district education and science departments, the Kyiv and Sevastopol City Administrations, which took place on February 25. With regard to the situation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, I inform you that the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports has addressed concerns and letters to the head of the Luhansk District Administration, to the head of the Donetsk District Administration, to the Donetsk District Administration, to the Doñec City Head, in which it has stressed that when decisions are made on the liquidation and restructuring of educational institutions, it is necessary to carry out a preliminary work to ensure adequate conditions for teaching and educating students, including the preservation of the language of education, to achieve reconciliation of all issues with parents and to address early employment of all pedagogical and other workers. I wanted to add to this that despite political insinuation around this issue, I can say that in 2008-2009 only 81.1% of Ukrainian students were educated in Ukrainian, and in 2010-2011 school years this number was 82.2 percent of all students in the general education institutions. At the same time, if 83 per cent of schools were taught in Ukrainian in 2008-2009, 85 per cent of secondary schools were attended in 2010-2011. From the faction of the People's Party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the question came from the National MP Rudchenk: "How is the Ministry going to provide school buses to the facilities and what sources? Is the ministry planning to increase funding for transport?".. Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich, I would like to say that during 2008-2009 no school bus was purchased at the expense of the state budget. Thus, these two years of implementation of the State's School Bus programme, the goal of which was to ensure equal access to quality education, was virtually destroyed and stopped. This program has been in operation in Ukraine since 2004 and has been approved by the government under the chairmanship of Viktor Fedorovich Janukovič. In 2010, despite the economic hardships, the Cabinet of Ministers renewed the implementation of the state-of-the-art target program School Bus. During 2010, 112 school buses were purchased and sent to rural schools. In addition, 58 buses were purchased at the expense of the World Bank. It's called "Equal Access to Quality Education." This year, the Cabinet of Ministers predicted the cost of implementing the School Bus program, which allows the purchase of some 250 school buses and 16 school buses for children with special needs, that is, buses that have a specially equipped rear platform with a pneumatic lift that allows them to pick up a child who is in a wheelchair or in a stationary position. The overall need for school buses in Ukraine consists of about two thousand according to educational authorities. I would like to say that if 170 buses were installed by the World Bank in 2010 at the expense of the state budget and the World Bank project, local government authorities have also taken steps to provide a public secondary school with buses for children in rural areas. In general, at the expense of local authorities, more than 200 school buses were purchased in 2010. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine raised the question that the Communist faction was concerned about the Ministry of Finance's intention to approve the plan of action for the preparation and amendment of certain regulations to improve the provision of budgetary services by the State. The document, in particular, provides for the reduction of free meals and the elimination of a 20 - percent supplement for teachers, which was introduced last year. Ladies and gentlemen, the 20-percent allowance for pedagogical workers has been set for the promotion of pedagogical prestige and for the implementation of President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic's new decree of 30 September last year on measures to ensure the priority development of education and for the purpose of reducing stress in teaching groups, the Ministry of Education has developed a draft decree for the Cabinet of Ministers, which has been distributed to all without the exception of teachers and not only institutions and institutions for education, but also teachers who work in other ministries and departments. So it's not about getting rid of the 20 percent allowance, and what's more, it's about distributing it to all the absolutely pedagogical categories. With regard to the reduction of student categories using the right to eat at school, of course such a project has not been developed by the Ministry of Education and as far as we know, this previous project of the Ministry of Finance has been discussed before the reform of the administrative committee under the chairmanship of Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Tikhov and has been rejected as contrary to the government development strategy in the field of education. Question from the faction of the Party of the Regions: "What action does the Ministry of Education use to prevent a repetition of the last year's situation with the ranks of the graduates to the reception committees in higher education institutions?".. Dear colleagues, this year, which has worked for the Ministry of Education, we have developed a unique project, called "Electronic Introduction", with the help of experts from Kharkiv higher education institutions, such as the Kharkiv National University of Radioelectronics, the political technical institutes, and will be presented on 12 March. In other words, with the aim of not repeating last year’s situation in general without a queue, every Ukrainian resident can apply for an entrance to a higher education facility electronically via the Internet, not necessarily from his computer, but on condition that the computer has a personal address. What's more, it's going to be a system that allows a person to choose whether to travel personally, to spend money, or to submit only in electronic form, and to go through the registration and to contact the original documents only when the rating list is published and everyone can make sure that it's listed by a student of a school. The submission of electronic documents will be distributed this year at the III-IV level of accreditation, i.e. all those implementing the program, the preparation of the Bakalavrat program. The system will provide automatic verification by means of a centre for assessing the quality of knowledge, reality and conformity of all 2008-2009-2010 certificates and this year and the validity of the document, authorizing a document on general secondary education. After this check, the graduate will be able to continue to submit his personal data which will be sent to the portal of the higher education institution. And after receiving an electronic application from a higher educational institution, the obituary will receive an e-mail message. In the system, all those who submit documents will be warned, and this needs to be confirmed electronically, that the person informed that if there are unreliable data on the presence of benefits, distorted or false points of the appendix to the school attestation, that there are no certificates of external independent testing, these obituaries will not be included and will fall out of the list of recommended ones. The system is working, and I invite media representatives and those who want to present this system, which has already been tested with the admission boards of a number of higher education institutions. Question from the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." "Is the Ministry aware of the widespread practice of baseless overestimation in the certificates of graduates of public education institutions in order to obtain unfair competitive advantages when entering higher educational institutions?" And before that, another question from the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." "Do the officials of the Ministry understand that by reinstating the test scores when they enter the higher education institution, they thus, on the one hand, stimulate corruption in the secondary school system, and on the other hand, reinvigorate the practice of receiving part of the unfair benefits when entering higher education institutions, because often good testimonies are bought banally." You know, it's hard for me to argue with this nonsense, because most of the people in this room have received high school examinations on the basis of secondary education and have entered a higher education facility. Do you consider your gray - headed teachers to be corrupt, or do you buy your own tests and so forth? But what I would like to say is that since 2007, the admission to higher education has been based on external independent evaluation. Thus, sociological research has shown that virtually the entire educational community, parents, and teachers, as a positive step towards restoring the authority of secondary school, have taken on the restoration of the midterm. What did the thematic studies, the State Summary Survey, show? For the last two and a half years, when the school's school test stopped playing any role, all the other high school subjects were virtually ignored. And only the restoration of the test, first of all, has raised the prestige of the teacher's work, which has ceased to feel worthless, which could simply not be taught. Secondly, at any score of the test, it still makes up less than one third of the points of external evaluation. So to talk about the fact that you can somehow solve the issue of university entrance is not a reality. And most importantly, the results of the monitoring study, which covered several thousand applicants this year and was carried out by the public organization at the expense of the American agency, the public organisation of the test technology centre and the quality monitoring of education showed a perfectly accurate correlation of the results of external testing and the average score of attestation, a twenty- and more score gap found in only 14 secondary schools in Ukraine of 20,000. So all of these inventions are just political speculations that have absolutely nothing to do with work to improve the quality of education. A question came from the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko, very acute. "Why education violates laws and does not introduce transparent and fair standards for all European countries in printing quality textbooks. A clear illustration of this is the example of the Pedagogical Press company, where the Chief Audit Authority in the present has found corruption for several million dollars. [[It's probably about last year.]] Also in a report last year by the CRU, it's published, after these schemes were taken into account by journalists, Mikola Azarov even gave a public commission to deal with accountable businesses, who are responsible for such robberies, what the Ministry's actions are done in order to bring about order and what is expected to be done." A very interesting question: Five in one. First of all, the Ministry of Education and Science of Education, Pedagogical Press, publishes the newspaper Education of Ukraine and Rural School, as well as professional educational journals. During all 12 years of its existence, the public publishing press of Pedagogical Press never even took part in a textbook competition. Moreover, over the years, including this year, it did not participate, not even handing out manuscripts, and according to textbooks, it never received government funding. Secondly, the Audit Authority checked the pedagogical press just after my letter as the Minister of Education and Science sent in the summer of 2010. And abuses were detected in the work of the director - general, his economic deputy, and the chief accountant, who worked on the basis of orders and contracts made by the previous minister, who worked in the government headed by Prime Minister Timoshenko. After receiving the act of the Chief Audit Authority, the director, who continues to hide in the hospital, was first removed from work, then dismissed, with which the contract was terminated, the materials were sent to the law enforcement authorities, including the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Deputy Director-General, and also replaced the directors of the economic, financial direction. But I would like to remind you that all of these abuses were committed in 2008-2009 in early 2010, and it is the minister who appointed this very leader who is responsible for them. The question came from the Yulia Tymoshenko Block: "Nowhere in the world is the WAC subordinated to the Ministry of Education against this is the science intelligence. What will be the next fate?".. I would like to say that in accordance with Presidential Decree No. 1085 of 9 December 2010 on optimizing the system of central executive authorities, the function of the Higher Auditorium has been assigned to the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports. In accordance with article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, it is the President's mandate to establish, eliminate and reorganize public authorities and assign them to tasks and functions by adopting the relevant President's decrees. In this way, the Ministry has developed a position to implement the Presidential Decree, which aims to review the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, and will be referred to the President of Ukraine. Thus, the President's decree to approve the Ministry's position will define the specific tasks and functions that have been delegated to the Ministry's Supreme Auditorium today. In particular, we note that the marked changes that are taking place as a result of the global optimization of the system of executive organs, which is initiated and defined by the President of Ukraine, will then require changes to the legislation, namely the Basic Professional Laws of Ukraine on Education and Higher Education. I would like to say that before such structures are debated in the world, we would have to learn perhaps from the experience of legislation. I would like to point out by reference that the Higher Commissions of Acquisitions under applicable legislation exist in the Russian Federation, the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Belarus. And above all, these countries are not merely subordinated to the Ministry of Education and Science of the country concerned, but in some countries they are even part of their central apparatus. So any claim that there is no higher certification commission anywhere in the world is subordinated to the ministries of education is absolutely groundless. A question from the National Party faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "Is the Ministry of Education planning to encourage the introduction of information networks in Ukrainian educational institutions, such as electronic libraries, to provide educational institutions with the Internet, including wireless ones?".. I would like to point out, Sir Mikola Haritonovich, that the information and computerization of the educational institutions of Ukraine of all, without exception, especially the general averages, is the highest priority in the activities of ministries. A government program called "One hundred percent" has been developed and predicts that in five years all will be connected without exception to schools in Ukraine on the Internet. In addition, the Ministry is involved in the development of a national programme under the leadership and supervision of President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine, the Open World program which foresees as one of the most important seven national priorities the development of an information network of high-speed broadband Internet with the obligation to connect all of its medium-sized public educational institutions and clearly technical educational institutions. In addition, with the support of the Ministry of Ukraine, a program of cooperation with Intell "Teaching for the Future" has been in place for several years. There is an all-U.S. experiment on teaching teachers to make effective use of information and communication technologies in the learning process and to improve the skills of teachers. In addition, this year, without public funds, Google will connect to the high-speed Internet of the 50 largest schools in the Kyiv region and the 50 largest high-school schools in Kiev. Thus, the Ministry is certainly planning to install electronic networks in Ukrainian educational institutions, such as Internet connection. Questions from the faction of the Party of Regions. "Last time a broad resonance and public awareness in society has become the issue of closing schools. Do you think that this question will solve by declaring a moratorium on school closings?".. Dear colleagues, I am deeply convinced that the main reason that affects the decline in the number of general education institutions is the demographic situation. And the country’s birth rate has been declining for a long time. I would like to say that the decline in the number of children also affects the network of public education institutions. Just a few examples. In the last 10 years, the number of school - age children in Ukraine has dropped by 2 and a half million, representing 36 and a half percent. And the school network was reduced by only 8 and a half percent. I have already quoted figures that the Supreme Council adopted a moratorium on closing schools in rural areas on December 19, 2009. However, during the 2009 moratorium, according to the State Committee on Statistics, which is official, the number of secondary schools in general declined by almost 400 - 394 during 2009. According to the State Department, there are now 605 schools with students from 1 to 10 children in Ukraine. And about one and a half thousand upper secondary schools with students from 10 to 40 children. So, of course, we need to develop the school bus program and make sure that the local authorities don't in any way conduct, let's say, shortening the network without providing jobs for all teachers and providing a place of education for each of those schoolchildren if the school is reorganized. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u3	Thank you, Dmitri Volodymyrovich. The first part of the answers to the written questions came from the factions. Now let's move on to the second 30 minutes -- answers to questions from the people's deputies. Once again, as usual, one minute -- questions and two minutes in the minister -- for the answer. Two minutes is the answer to the question. Please sign up for the question. The minister may speak for a second, but he has at least two minutes. All right, two o'clock. Please, Parish. Get ready, Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u4	Parly Andrew, Ukrainian National Deputy, Our Ukraine. I was addressed literally yesterday by representatives from the round table who discussed the concept of language and literary education in Ukraine and the academic education community, which is more than 100 doctors of science, professors, editors of various publications. They're actually turning, they're criticizing a concept approved by the Minister of Education and Science, the young and the sports, and they think it's very necessary to get the Minister of Tobacco out of his position as soon as possible. [[No.58]] And they are actually asking us to hold parliamentary hearings to determine a new concept of language and literary education that would free Ukrainian education from the neocommunal ideology of the Russian world. Don't you think it's a question of the level of creation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u5	Thank you. What I'm trying to say is, first of all, focus, it's just a draft document, a concept. Secondly, nowhere in the world is the concept necessary for implementation, it is the sum of thoughts that pursues the intention to allow the professional environment to discuss a particular problem more fully. I'd like to say. That, you know, it looks pretty tiring when certain political forces invent lies, spread them themselves, and fight with them themselves. In this reference you write, the authors point out that the language education project does not say that the language is still spoken in the national language. What I want to say is that it's clearly written in the concept, and I quote, "Observation in the language of the State contributes to the consolidation of citizens in the building up and strengthening of the Ukrainian state." This concept was developed by doctors, processors, and students from more than 20 universities in Ukraine, the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences. In addition, the draft concept is based entirely on the basics of such normative documents in the field of language policy and language education, such as the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on Education, the Law on Languages in the USR, the Declaration of Nationality Rights of 19 November 1991 on the National Education Program. So once again, I would like to say that there is absolutely no reason to invent gossip, spread it, and fight it. The things you're talking about, there's no concept of language education, and there's certainly never been.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u6	Please, Blackwolf. Prepare Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Minister! I have two short questions for you. First. Tell me if there were such cases in the world when education was cut short, there were 12 to 11, there were 14 to 13. The purpose of this and the perspective? Now, well, then, somehow you see the development of education in Ukraine. Second, it's a question of scientific degrees. Should we not move on to the only normal system as in the world? And I would like to make a brief statement to Deputy Ariev. Adam Ivanovich, Arieva, please pass on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u8	No, Ari’s word cannot be passed on. If there was no question. Any questions? Dmitri Volodymyrovich, was it? Please respond. There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u9	Dear Lord People's Deputy! Not only have there been accidents in the world, but they have been reduced to the most developed European and world countries, particularly the full secondary school of the Federal Republic of Germany in five federal countries, which gave up a 13-year education period and passed on to 12-year-olds. In addition, no one in our country refused that year, and we did not have a 12th class. Moreover, I would like to tell you that when the Supreme Council passed the Amendment Act on certain legislative acts of Ukraine, where, in particular, it is called the 11th Year Act in space, there was, of course, an 11-year term for full secondary education. But even today, according to medical calculations, our 11-year term allows us to teach the school program 10 and a half thousand hours. This is more than a school program compulsory, such as France, Finland, Germany. For 150 hours, there must be more than just a schooling program in Britain. Besides, I don't think any legislation has received such high support in society. In various sociological surveys, between 70 and 93 percent. That's why this law, first of all, allowed a lot of higher education institutions to be saved. Because a year without a graduation would result in a huge reduction in pedagogical workers. Secondly, this law has introduced a lot of absolutely money into education: it's allowed to form an education district, it's allowed to integrate children's education with special needs into ordinary general secondary schools. And as of today, more than 29,000 such children in Ukraine are learning in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u10	Please, Landik. Yavorovsky's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u11	Please pass the word to my colleague Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u12	Dear Andrei Petrovich Kluev, I would like to address you and say that the work of the Minister of Tobacco deserves respect and deserves to be transferred to other ministries. Personally, I managed to reach him on the phone three times this year. I go to school, there's teachers, I'm recruiting a minister, he's responding, and he's in direct contact with the teachers. Such access by the Minister, such professionalism is only for the benefit of the authorities. My question to you, Dmitri Vladimirovich. One: what is done for the vocational training at the school itself because we have already forgotten the hammer? And what is being done for the country's production?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u13	Thank you. My dear colleague, I would like to say that I think we are going to finish this year and that from next school year we will be able to actually move to a class school so that the school of labour technologies becomes a normal part of the secondary education process. In total, six modules of the school are planned, including a school of employment. But of course, the system of vocational and technical education in our country is a major concern. The Ministry has developed and is now in agreement with the ministries concerned the State Programme for the Development of Vocational and Technical Education in Ukraine for 2011-2016. To date, we have about 990 vocational training establishments and about two hundred more in the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food system. The State programme, which I hope will consider in April the Cabinet of Ministers, involves the remodeling of a training park, a park of machines, machinery, buildings of more than five billion grevens in five years' time. In particular, almost 4.3 billion from the State budget and the rest from the local budget. This year we have already developed new integrated standards of 22 professions. We will work together with employers in the framework of qualifications, and a number of new completely vocational and technical training institutions will be brought together to save money with employment centres so that the employment centres do not stand separately but renovate vocational training institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u14	Please, Yavorowski passes the word to Taran-Teren. Prepare Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u15	Thank you. The appointment of you to the ministerial office was accompanied by student strikes, and you assured yourself that your ideological views would have no bearing on your work as a minister. But here's a quote from your work "Peace Without Ukraine," it's not the political forces that invented it, it's your quote, "Folio" kharkiv. And in this quote, you claim that there is no basis for the very existence of the Ukrainian State, and I quote literally, "There is no necessary element to its existence." [[States]] Period. And in this denial of the very right of Ukraine to its own state there is all of your essence and all of your activity, and all of your philosophy. But the question is, what did I quote, who wrote that? Is that what an ideologist wrote, or is that what a young Minister-Smoker teaches? And actually, you know, separation is a sick phenomenon. And how do you live with this separation: you work as a minister in the morning and as a chauvinist in the evening?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u16	You know, there's a book that's been reprinted, and it's clearly the date that it was written in 2008. I want to say again: Stop speculation, every man, regardless of his position, has the right to his political views. I said that by having an official office, I would clearly comply with the requirements of the law, the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine, which I do. And to hunt down the political views of three or four years ago, when each of us, while in opposition, can afford a sharp criticism of the existing system of power, I don't think this is conducive, firstly, to understanding in society, secondly, it has absolutely nothing to do with the work of the Ministry of Education. Because you take in people in your ranks who have been writing dissertations about fighting party organizations for growing sugar beets, and you don't mention what they said for 5 or 10 years, or 20 years. Unlike many of your colleagues, I was the first one in Ukraine to write a dissertation on the steel repression of the 1930s, and the second one on the phenomenon of totalitarian repressive society. Quote a few lines of these works, of these monographs, and then maybe you'll find a balance and it'll make it easier for you to take education and other activities. But hunting for views in no country has ever had a positive effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u17	Please, Grigorovich Lila.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u18	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." The minister's year of service is a broken summer entrance, poor textbooks. I take it as sabotage. That's why I have a question for the government and the First Deputy Prime Minister. When the Ukrainian education ends, including the President’s program sabotage. And then I have before the First Vice Prime Minister again a very specific question. Makeyevka, school number 44. A group of national deputies were there yesterday. It's a beautiful building. 95 percent schooling. Mothers, parents shed tears on their cheeks, there are beautiful good people, honest, good people. What did they ask for? But let our children walk three miles [3 km] to a school where they want to move this school so that their dogs don't bite so that their alcoholics don't get caught in the markets. Please, Andrew Petrovich, put 450,000 dollars into the boiler room and save this school. I have signatures in my hand from another school. Full filling in those schools. I beg you, hear these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, once again, I have to say that all the figures that have been cited are entirely mind manipulation. At least on admission to higher education. In 2010, the absolute record number of applicants was 114 million. And twice as many written complaints of violations of the work of reception committees. You had questions about textbooks in your faction here. I want to tell you, when your talented and well-known minister held a school textbook competition last year. There were 60 publications that left 59 appeals afterwards. This year, there were only 3 appeals for a textbook contest. I think a lot of people have been struck by the news on TV about the city of the Red Light of Luhansk. So what I'm saying is, it's just a huge surprise that false information about someone trying to shut down a single school with Ukrainian language of education in the city of Red Luch. Horrible speculation took place on this subject, and I was personally in the city of Red Light, I report. In fact, only four of the 30 high schools in the Red Luhansk region are conducting the teaching process in Russian. That's your information. As for Makiyiv School, Makiyiv School 77, built in 1953, we asked the Macyiv Board not to close it, but the completeness of this school is absolutely false. A school of 450 students is now home to 105 children, less than 25 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! You understand very well that from this – Ivan Aleksandrovich, Ivan Aleksandrovich – from the fact that you will wave your hands will not change anything. It's the minister's business as he answers, it's his business as he answers, you ask the question he's answering as he thinks it's necessary. He doesn't dictate. I can finish this session right now. He does not dictate what you ask, what questions you ask, and you do not dictate to him what he should answer. Please, Tolstenka. That's why I'm learning that you're still a pawn in this Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u21	Please give the floor to Mr. Smith.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u22	Dear Dmitry Volodymyrovich! Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. I have two questions for you. The first question is, please tell me, the Cabinet of Ministers decision of 30 August 2007 has been approved by the state-purpose social program "The School of the Future" and unfortunately this program has not been implemented. What does the ministry plan to do in the future in this regard? That's the first question. And the second question. Please tell me, is there a specific program, at least one higher education facility, to allow it to enter the 500 best institutions in the world? Two specific questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u23	I mean, in 2003, under the leadership of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine, a completely unique state-specific social program called the School of the Future was developed. A program that had no parallels at the time, either in Post-Radians or in European space. It envisioned the establishment of six unique high school educational complexes, where integration and multi-level education were carried out. In fact, a child there could obtain a 1 - grade education and immediately acquire pedagogical skills by training for a future teacher, a teacher, a psychologist. The construction of such a school in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea was started and a similar unique complex in the Hersonian region was started. Since December 2007, Prime Minister Timoshenko’s government’s funding of these works has been halted. In fact, for two years now, the National Target Program "The School of the Future" has been destroyed and destroyed. Construction in Herson was completed, and four new schools were not established. Since 2012, the Cabinet of Ministers has been planning to relaunch the National Target Program "The School of the Future" because it's a unique experiment where the National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, the teachers of secondary school, the higher education. In higher education. Today, in Ukraine, nearly 900 higher education institutions are said not to carry such loads. That is why we advocate a voluntary merger of higher education institutions, and today this process is going on in Ukraine, for example, in Lviv two state universities voluntarily at the conferences of the labour groups are united in one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u24	Please, Goroskevitch, Kovalova next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Lucki.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u26	Lutsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u27	Dear Dmitry Volodymyrovich, after you sent an information letter to the Ministry of Education and Science on how to form a government order for 2011? It stated in one paragraph that, in view of the fact that there will be 42 percent fewer children in secondary schools this year, namely, 142 thousand children, this request will be taken into account with regard to the formation of a public procurement application. After that, our fellow "educators" began to scare the society that tobacco reduces the demand by 42 percent, something has to be done. [[in quotes]] Hence, the request to answer questions. Is a reduction in the government order planned this year? If so, why? And won't that affect the demand for a market in professionals?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, some of our opponents are engaged in, once again, primitive manipulations of social consciousness. The Ministry never cut or cut 42 percent of the government's orders. We went to the heads of all higher education institutions, all forms of ownership and all forms of subordination, where we informed the graduates of this year's situation. And they asked me to bring in my government procurement project. I can show this table in the section of each region: in 2010 the 11th class graduated from 340 children, and this year it will be completed by 191 thousand and a half. But, of course, in order to preserve the pedagogical potential, high - school staff will not be reduced by government procurement. I can say that last year, the government of Mikola Janović Azarov provided a record number of public places, 39.2 percent of the 11th grade graduates. For those who want to compare, in the best years of the Soviet Union in Ukraine, 21 percent of those who graduated from high schools were government procurement. This year, of course, the government order because the drop in the number of graduates will be more than forty percent at the expense of the state budget alone. And in general, last year, 2010, 83 out of every 100 graduates entered a university. This is a higher indicator than in most countries. In addition, we plan to increase the state's order for technical engineering. And shortenings that aren't needed are economists and lawyers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u29	Please, Kovalvova, Party of Regions. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u30	May I have the floor to Zablock's Vitali Petrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u31	It's stuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Dmitry Volodymyrovich, my question is the following. Already an illustration in tongues is the quality of training professionals in higher education. Because we know that one of the highest principles of education in higher education is that of learning at the highest level of complexity and quality. The question is, what is done by the Ministry that you are in charge of improving the quality of higher education? What are Ukraine’s prospects for European education? And what is the state of preparation of the new Ukrainian Higher Education Act? And a little last question: what are the perspectives of the Higher Testing Commission, and what do you think needs to be changed in assigning, and what will change in assigning scientific degrees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u33	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that yesterday we set up an expert working group to work out new proposals that came to the Ministry for a new law on higher education. A very large group were invited to the Kyiv University of Shevchenk and agreed to participate in the Rector of Kiev-Mogilian Academy, representatives of trade unions and employers. And I think for two or three months this expert group will be able to complete the work on 3,000 and 600 proposals. My main position is that higher education will only become competitive if we strengthen universities. Cambridge budget is 2.5 billion. But government funding is only 14 percent. Why? Because the commercialization of science in technology transfer allows the university to make money. And the very basic requirement of our law and our project, despite all the inventions and chatter that non-educated professionals are spreading, is dramatically expanding in the 32 articles the autonomy of higher education institutions. It's radical. Institutional, financial and economic. The university itself can now plan the maximum and minimum burden on the teacher, taking into account his scientific work, the level of wages, and the right to invite foreign teachers on a permanent and non-permanent basis. The university, in the case of the adoption of this law, has the right to manage the costs, the buildings, the buildings, the right to create venture funds, the company for implementation. Without that, we can't raise the quality of education. And one more thing. Administratively, it is important to insist on the preservation of higher education institutions, the quality of training. A choreography institution can't train lawyers. You can't have a veterinary facility training psychologists, you can't have polytheists training psychologists. It's unnatural and it's disrupting the quality of education.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u34	Abdullin. After him is Alexandrovska. None. Abdullin. Show me Abdullin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u35	Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I repeat, show me Abdulina, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. Sorry, sorry, sorry. Now, maybe this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u36	Chago, please, Kosova.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u37	Mikhailo Kosov, Timoshenko Street. I want to start with a memory. So on February 12, 2003, there was the same Dmitry Tobacco as Deputy Prime Minister of the government of Yanukovic. I don't know if you remember, but at the time we were looking at the question of honoring the memory of the victims of the Holocaust for 32-33 years. Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Tobacco was reporting on behalf of the government. And it was in this report that the famine was offered to acknowledge the genocide of the Ukrainian people. After that, he published a collection of our performances by Dmitri Tobacco, and there is this report. I still admire what was said at the time. This was done by an official, but now the official, Minister of Education, Dmitri Tobacco, on the subject of starvation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u38	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Kossov, as Minister of Education over the course of the year, I haven't said a word about famine. So let's be polite and correct in terms first. Secondly, I also said that famine, a great famine for 32-33 years is a huge tragedy for Ukrainian, Russian, Kazakh and other peoples. And this position, this position, is long known and proven by scientists not from Russia, not from Ukraine to the West. In terms of, say, the largest in the pitiful weight of the terrible loss of the rural population, the most exterminated by the great famine of peasants in the Saratov region was 43 percent. But the total number of deaths is much higher in the farming areas of Ukraine. And when it comes to the great tragedy, the attempt to divide the victims of the tragedy according to ethnic or national principles is the greatest abuse of their memory, because in Ukraine Ukrainian and Russian, and Polish, and Moldovan villages, and various, starved to death. And what's important is that if you take and analyze the list of those who died of hunger, there are people of all, absolutely all the nationalities that lived in Ukraine. And their memory should be honored by silence and respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u40	A helmet, please, one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u41	Minister, it is difficult to realize that education in the Ukrainian State, including higher education, is directed by a person who does not love Ukraine. But I don't want to ask you about education. Like the Galician family, I will ask my family about it. You have very bright pearls, and I quote them, because it's difficult for me just like you to say, "Galleries are lakes that have barely learned to wash their hands, which have virtually nothing to do with the people of the great Ukraine in neither mental nor professional nor linguistic nor political terms." You know, the second quote is even sharper, it's just like on the war front: "Today, like 1941-45, and it's just us and them, civilization and savagery, culture and barbarity." I'm asking you a question. They are the Galicians here, of course, those who walk the land of Danil Galick. Who do you think we are? And would you like to apologize to the Galicians today?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u42	Recrossing quotations is, of course, positive for manipulation by acceptance, but very old. I'd like to say that around the world, there's always a debate across Europe between democratic views and nationalism. And since you have a minority in the hall, thank God, the people of Ukraine have democratic views, European views. [[Applause]] Nationalistics support some part, but it's smaller, but the discussion between these views has been, is and will be. Instead, I can also advise you to read John Seminowich Nechuya-Levitsky, John Jakovitch Frank, and Paul Petrovich Krapadsky to choose quotations and to enrich another point of view, some of which may be quite useful. I hope you have no reason to blame John Jacobich Frank for trying to attribute false quotes to others.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u43	Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. Let's thank both the minister and the members of the government who participated in the "hour of questions" for having participated with us in this regulatory legal process. Two moments, dear colleagues. First. I apologize as the head of the army, not as a parliamentary statement to the address of Andria Papuya. That's the first one. And the second. There is a proposal, the truth is without a date, but it doesn't matter, because it's for all life cases, two factions, signed by Cosemiakin and someone for Martinenko to remove Martiniuk from the plenary for two days. I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[11:08:10]] For-55 The factions, please. “BUT – Fatherland” – 31, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 22, non-fractional – 2. We're continuing the meeting. Let's get to it. No, first of all, let me announce a list of the national deputies who are on board. Shevchenko Andry, Klukkowski, Chronomorov, and Top Command of the Supreme Council are in the Republic of Estonia from 4 to 7 March. And according to medical reports, they are in the treatments of Belarus, Shishkina, Heratchenko, Belarus, Dubov, Katerinczuk, Yankovsky, Tkac and Tkachenko. Please remove the ballot cards for the named MPs who are officially on vacation and are in hospital facilities. We can't block it. Unfortunately, that is not the option. Please request from the People's Deputies: Andrija Paruba to the President to support the appeal of the academic educational community of Ukraine to the requirement of the resignation of the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Dmitri Tobacco, in connection with the deeply anti - Ukrainian essence of his worldview, beliefs and actions that conflict with such a responsible position in an independent state. I understand that this is a request to the President of Ukraine. That's why I'm voting to support the request. [[11:10:13]] For-38 Not supported. Victor Olijnik to the President of Ukraine on the destruction of the social protection system of the population affected by the Chernobyl disaster as a result of the adoption of the bill "On State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments". Dear colleagues, I will ask, but the request does not answer the question. We didn't pass such a law with you. But I'm betting on the vote. The law has not been passed. Please be sure. [[11:10:55]] For the 17th. Vladimir Pollohall to the President of Ukraine on the activities of the Supreme Auditorial Commission of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on support for the request. [[11:11:16]] For-27 Not supported. Vladimir Yavorowski to the President of Ukraine about the use of thirty-three million dollars to repair the Sinjora residence, built only eight years ago, when the government did not provide funds for bookkeeping, cinematography, the purchase of ambulances for rural health facilities, compensation for participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident, veterans and war children, mothers for the birth of a child and other social expenses. I'll bet you a vote on support for the request. [[11:12:03]] For-33 Not supported. Sergio Moshak to the President of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the Society with a limited responsibility of Vites. Please be sure to support this request. [[11:12:26]] For -6 Not supported. Groups of people's deputies to the President of Ukraine to prevent the destruction of Ukraine's insurance records system. [[Grizzly, Greenwich, and others. Total 4 deputies]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:12:53]] For-59 Not supported. Andrija School to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to stop the release of the propaganda program of the Ukrainian national deputy, Vadim Koleschenka, on the "Council" channel and the inadmissibility of using the parliamentary channel by individual national deputies for the so-called "author programs". Eugene Kzarow to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the National Committee of Archives of Ukraine, on the original Declaration on the State Sovereignty of Ukraine. Irina Heratschenko and Olga Gerasimük to the Head of the Supreme Council on the issue of the lack of response to parliamentary requests, the failure to provide appropriate answers to requests from executive and local authorities. Orestes Mutz to the Supreme Council Committee on Anti-Criminality, Head of State Technical Regulation, High Council of Justice, Henprocurorate on the legality of criminal proceedings committed against Eugene Melniczuk, Director of the State Enterprise Ternopolstandardmeterology, and the threat of turning this state enterprise into an organized criminal group. Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Prime Minister for the enforcement of health policies and for the observance of the laws and regulations of the Constitution of Ukraine and for the protection of human and civil rights and freedoms, with a view to preventing the closure of health facilities, such as the Kirov City Hospital of the Donetsk Region. Victor Olijnik to the Prime Minister on the destruction of the social protection system of the population affected by the Chernobyl disaster as a result of the adoption of the bill "On State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments". Victoria Demionczuk to the Prime Minister to address the problems of the National Historical Memorial Reserve, Babin Jar. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for a sharp increase in the cost of bus travel on the Chernigow Kiev route. Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister for the creation of an expert committee or working group with the involvement of chemical specialists to address the issue of pensioning at the age of payment under schedules Nos.1 and No.2 for former employees of the Open Shareholders Association "Svema Share Company". Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister on the attempt by the Ministry of Education and Science, youth and sports led by Tobacco to deprive students of the scholarship, which will lead to a sharp decline in the intellectual potential of Ukrainian youth. Catherine Vashuk to the Prime Minister on the need to improve the order and grant housing services. Catherine Samuelk to the Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture Policy on the critical situation that has arisen because of the low prices for the purchase of milk in peasants. Lilia Grigorovitch to the Prime Minister on the targeted use of the Social Insurance Fund and on the real causes of hospital debt. Mr. Dercert to the Prime Minister about the increase in the city of Pavlovgrad in the Dnipropetroval area of the grant of compensation from the State Budget. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister on the problem of providing disabled war with a special transport vehicle in the Zitomir region under the Ukrainian War veterans' status law. Mikli Tomenka to the Prime Minister to cancel the annual press competition "Young Ukraine's Future". Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister for the development of a state support programme for Ukrainian cultural products. Oleg Zarubinsky to Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development on the purpose of accounting for municipal tariffs, based on the number of inhabitants, rather than on the area of the premises. Oleg Zarubinsky to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the guarantee of social benefits provided by legislation for telephone services for Ukrainian pensioners. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister regarding the participation of the State in the Financial Recovery Program of the Rodood Bank Association. Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister on the need for urgent action to resolve the situation resulting from the closure of the customs sector in the town of Svalja on Zakarpatta. Alexander Cnervolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the head of the Kiev State Department for the need to return to Kiev's budget of 6.7 billion dollars and miscalculations of Minfin for government budget losses of 1.7 billion dollars. Orestes Muz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Henprocuror for the violation of legislation in the activities of the Head of the Ternopil Regional Audit Authority and for the purpose of being in office. Alexander Crnvoluntary to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Unjustified and Inevitable Costs of Construction, Housing and Further Destruction of the Building Sector as a result of the legislative activities of the Cabinet. Alexander Shepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preparation and approval of the State Programme for Prevention, Diagnostic and Treatment of Viral Hepatitis C. Paul Ungurian to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources, Minister of Justice for blocking Romania's implementation of the Danube-Black Sea Deep Sea Navigation Project and the possibility of issuing warnings to Ukraine by the Espoo Convention in June 2011. [[on environmental impact assessment in cross-border context]] Roman Zabzaluk Prime Minister regarding the establishment of a state-owned inter-ministerial commission on the exceptional environmental situation in the Yellow area of the Mikolai region as a result of the Society's activities with limited responsibility, the Mikolai Agricultural Plant. Grenevetsky's Sergey to the Prime Minister for the provision of assistance to families of military personnel affected by the fires in Odessa. Sergey Moshak to the Prime Minister, Henprosecutor, on the situation surrounding the Society with a limited responsibility to Vites. Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister for the conduct of the accounts with the investors of the Rodood Bank Bank in the Cherkas region. Stepan Kurpil to the Prime Minister on the need for a bus to take the children to school and to include a section of the road between the villages of Rižavka and Vorosililovka in the rational network of the roadways of the Winnitsk region. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Youth, Prosecutor General, Head of the Borislav City Council of the Lviv Region on the organization of the verification of the facts, cited in the statement of more than 500 citizens of the city of Borislav regarding the gross violation by the heads of the Borislav City Council of the Lviv Region of the Law on Libraries and Library Affairs, the Ukrainian Law on Culture, Presidential Decree No. 6 of 12 January 2009 and other valid legal acts regulating the operation and functioning of libraries in Ukraine, which led to the illegal closure of publicly available libraries in the city of Borislav of Lviv. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister on the use of measures to stop the abuse of the authorities of the State over small enterprises in the Winnitsk region, which leads to the impoverishment of the Ukrainian people, the settlement of the issue of the payment of the Assembly to compulsory state pension insurance by small business entities, ensuring the realization of the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to a sufficient standard of living. Groups of National Deputies to Kabmin, Mineconomy, Ministry of Interior, State Agency of Land Resources, Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region, Kyiv District State Administration, Borispolska District State Administration of the Kyiv Region, Kyiv District Association of Gardening Associations and Masses on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the members of the Gardening Society "Visekka-3" on the fact that land is occupied in the territory of the Borispol Region and on the use of appropriate measures to ensure the restoration and protection of property rights to the land of members of this gardening society, in accordance with the order of the Cabinet of Ukraine since 30 September 2009. [[Bondica, Prutnika, Plonikova]] [[use of them]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on preventing the destruction of the Ukrainian Documentation Fund system. [[Grizzly, Greenwich, and others. Total 4 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on actions that are incompatible with the position of First Deputy Minister of Agricultural Policy and Food of Mikola Bezugog on his involvement in the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. [[Nachosi, Romanyuka and others. Total 9 deputies]] Mikoli Kulczynski and Yuri Karmazin to the Prime Minister for not allowing the Odessa City Network to shut down Veteran's Odessa network, which provides hot meals for about two thousand low-security Odessa and for determining the reasons for ignoring Odessa Mayor Alexi Kostusev's interest in Odessa. Alla Alexandrovsky to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the cynical violation of Ukrainian laws by representatives of the Kharkiv City Department of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in Kharkiv district on February 22, 2011, at the opening of Joseph Blind’s memorial board. Anatolia Matvienka to the Head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the provision of information on expenses incurred by the State for the capital repair of the building of the Pechersky district of Kiev. Valeria Calchenk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, for a lengthy investigation by the Alexandri City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kirovograd area of criminal matters. Valery Bondick to the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration, the Biocerkow Regional Government Administration of the Kyiv Region, regarding the provision of a training complex in the area of education in accordance with the State Information Programme and Computerization of Public Education Institutions. Alexander Golub to the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the rise of traumatism at the Bukovel Mountain resort and the deliberate concealment of information. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine regarding the local authorities’ intentions to close three schools in the Kulikov district of Chernigiv. Vladimir Danilenko to the High Council of Justice on the improper examination of the parliamentary request for violations of the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of a war invalid, veteran of Afghanistan, Oleg Ananchenk. Vladimir Karpuk to the Head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine on the provision of information on imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of means of transport as humanitarian aid. Eugene Zarkov to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for systematic acts of vandalism in the city of Odessa, particularly the repetitive acts of vandalism in relation to the monument of Pushkin, the public reception facilities of Ukraine’s national deputies and party centers, as well as the improper prevention of such crimes. Mikoli Shershun to the first Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine for the necessary State accreditation of the Mountain sanatorium of the Rhine region. Mikoli Shershun to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Zitomir District State Administration, for compensation in the event of the loss of a breadwinner whose death is related to the Chernobyl disaster. Alexander Golub to the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the misconduct of the leadership of the public education school No. 7 of Borislav Lviv district and the inaction of the Administration of Education and Science of the Lviv district government administration. Paul Costenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the situation of traffic on the street of Triochals in Kiev. Sergey Vlasenka to the Head of the Court of Auditors for the verification of the legality of directing the Cabinet of Ministers to the State Budget for Accounting with the company AIKIN GAMP Strauss Hayer and Feld El Pi. Sergey Vlasenka to the Head of the State Reserve Agency of Ukraine, Director General of the State Enterprise Resource on the Legality of Establishing a Resource Contract with TRAUT KECHERIS, Pi El Es. [[Washington City]] Sergei Gordienka to the Head of the National Executive Service of Ukraine, Attorney-General for the violation of legislation by officials of the village of Bubnivska Slobidka of the Zolotani district of the Cherkas region, when transferring the housing fund of the former postichev kolgosp to municipal property, ignoring court decisions and violating the rights of citizens of Tkachenka, Yasinovenko, Lopčinski. Sergey Chrapova to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Henprocuror for signs of misconduct by members of the Dnipropetrov Police Department of the Dnipropetrov Region for 12 years. Sergey Shevchuk to the Ministry of Health for delays in the introduction into the medical practice of the modern Protocol for the Treatment of Acute Lymphobological Leukaemia. Jury Litvina to the head of the High Council of Justice, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine on the non-compliance of constitutional, civil and civil procedural laws of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports on the provision of a list of schools that are closed in 2010-2011 and 2011-2020 school years. [[Pussy, Culchinsky, and others. Total 6 deputies]] Anatolia Matvienka to the Attorney General on the examination of the illegal actions of officials of the State Commission from securities and stock markets. Anatolia Yagoferov to the Attorney General on the violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, led by the National Commission on Electricity Regulatory of Ukraine. Anatolia Yagoferov to Henprocuror for the illegal actions of the employees of the Cave branch of Privatbank. Andrija Pavlovski to Henprocuror about unwarranted detention under the arrest of tax activist Igor Garkavenk. Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Attorney-General for the conduct of the Ukrainian Attorney-General’s Office to verify that Ukraine’s legislation is being enforced by officials of the internal affairs bodies of the Pecher district of Donetskka, with the aim of avoiding further pressure on parents and students of School No. 111. Eugene Wolinz to Henprocuror for the commission of a crime by Vice Prime Minister-Minister of Social Policy Sergey Tihypk by abuse of his position in connection with the illegal promotion of the insurance company TAS of illegal advantages in carrying out his business during open trades where insurance services were procured. Catherine Samoylik to Henprocuror for violations of the legislation of the Bureau of Technical Inventory of Kiev-Svetoshin district of Kiev. Mikoli Kulczynski to Henprocuror of Ukraine to investigate the legality of the actions of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Oktavran district of Poltava against the officials of the Regional Support Fund for Individual Housing in the Village. Zoya Shishkina to Henprokuror to appeal to Nina Vasskowski’s citizen regarding the intentional gravity and the improper investigation of a criminal case for the deliberate murder of her son, Paul Waskowski, and for the groundless refusal of personal admission by the Attorney General’s Office. Oksana Bilozoz to Henprocuror to find out the conditions of removal from Ukraine and transfer for adoption to a homosexual couple from Belgium, a boy born a Ukrainian citizen who is in contravention of the current legislation of Ukraine. Roman Zabzaluk to Henprocuror on the possible illegal actions of a citizen named Yuri Kauda and officials of the local government of the city of Mikolayeva, as well as on the inaction of the authorities of the prosecutorial office of the Mikolai region to violate the current legislation of Ukraine. Alexander Schepelev to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the use of measures to provide maternity homes for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea with a vaccine to inoculate babies from tuberculosis. Jury Litvina to the Head of the Kirovograd District Authority on the legality of appointments, non-professional approach and personnel policy requirements by the leadership of the Ulyanov District State Administration of the area. Irina Herashchenko and Olga Gerasimük are headed by the Kyiv City State Administration on the need to give a proper response to the parliamentary request for the raiding of the scientific and cultural publications and the Court. These are the parliamentary questions that we had in our possession today and have sounded them. Is there a colleague of Carmazin? I can't see. He had a dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s request, but since he did not have one, we would not listen. Let us go to the draft Law on Central Executive Authorities. [[Registration number 8055]] Yuri Anatolyevich. Please, on the rostrum, you have three minutes to go. Well, we won't come back to that later on Friday. While Yuri Anatoliyovich is preparing, we will still consider the draft Law on Central Executive Authorities, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Reporters will know how to prepare. [[11:30:44]] For 203 Supported. So let's think about the simplified procedure. So the reporter, the two-minute co-reporter. Please be guided. Yuri Anatolyovich, I can give you mine. Yes, on the next Friday, we will no longer return to questions. Yuri Anatolyovich, there's nothing I can do, that's the will of the session room. We're looking at the draft Law on Central Executive Authorities. [[Registration number 8055]] Justice Minister Lavrinovich Aleksandar Volodymyrovich will report. Prepare for the committee of Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u44	Mr. Chairman, the country's distinguished national deputies! Your attention is on the proposal of the draft Law on Central Executive Authorities. You know that the Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that all authorities should act on the basis and in the manner defined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And for a long time, we had a legal gap when there was no law that framed the activities of ministries and other central executives. This bill introduces a clear grading and defines a system of central executives in order to develop functions that can either create a corrupt environment or cannot help to make the state function the most effective. The ministries are envisaged as bodies that will develop state policy in the relevant spheres or in several areas, as determined by the President of Ukraine. Other central authorities will provide administrative services, manage government property, and perform control functions. Control, management and policy-making functions are developed by different types of central executive bodies such as the Ministry, the Service, the Agency and the Inspection. In addition, independent regulators are expected to operate in Ukraine to regulate the market for natural monopolies. The main tasks of the Ministry are carried out through the development of legislation that is proposed for adoption either in this session hall or by the President of Ukraine, by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and by the law-defined cases are regulated by acts issued by the ministries themselves. I hope you're familiar with the project you've been offered. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, from the committee, first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Olga Borisovna Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u46	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland," "The Fatherland Party." Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! At its meeting on February 17, the Committee considered the draft Law on Central Executive Authorities, submitted by the President of Ukraine. In particular, the bill proposes to define the system, the basic tasks, the principles, the legal principles of the activities of the central executive bodies, the order in which they are formed, the reorganization and the elimination of state registration as legal persons. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council concludes with a number of comments on the project and believes that the first reading makes it appropriate to return it to work. During the general discussion on the issue of individual Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee commented on the unconstitutionality of certain provisions of the bill, such as: the definition of the organization and order of activities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the State Property Fund, the State Television and Radio Committee, which are regulated in addition to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, also by acts of the President; the mandate of the Head of State to issue mandates that are a mandatory act for ministries and other central executive bodies, while, according to part of the third section of Article 106 of the Constitution, the President issues orders and orders. Signs of unconstitutionality also have proposals to rely on the President of Ukraine to appoint the first deputy and deputy minister and to release them at the same time as the minister. At the same time, after hearing information from the executive branch subcommittee, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Central Executive Authorities, submitted by the President as a result of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. Chechtev Mikhailo. Prepare Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u48	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! This law is driven away from the new Constitution, which is now in force in our country, which clearly sets out the format of the presidential-parliamentary form of government, where the centre of gravity of government is displaced from. Senior Presidential Officer. Moreover, the law should also be considered in the context of the administrative reform initiated by the President to improve the efficiency of public administration by reducing duplication of functions by reducing the cumbersome bureaucratic apparatus in the context of the general deregulation of the economy. The draft law, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, should determine the main tasks, principles and organization of the activities of the central executive bodies, their type, structure, competence, place in the system of executive bodies, the social and other security of the employees of the central executive bodies. The adoption of this law will establish on a legislative level the status, organization and order of activities, the competence and place of ministries, and other central executive authorities in the system of executive authorities. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to support the proposal of a committee of profile and to adopt this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Anatoly Matvienko. Be prepared for Paul’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u50	Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" block. Dear colleagues, I think we could talk about some positive things, because, in fact, the novelty is that we are the first to adopt the Law on Central Authorities. And the second thing that's particularly nice to me is that we're trying for the first time to clearly distinguish political officials, i.e. the minister and the first deputy, and the state service, which is supposed to be in accordance with the law that should be introduced, the public service, should have proper status and should only be protected by their profession. Since what is happening today when the minister comes and fires all the officials, we have led our ministries to unprofessionalism. The situation that exists today is abnormal, and then we do not have the right decisions. Now, in terms of criticism, the only thing that could be said by continuing to talk about government officials is that they don't define the terms of their competitive selection and appointment. And in this way, the absence of such a term norm remains a possible pressure on such government officials. Second, which is unacceptable in this law, as in the following law. I don't know why, and who's comfortable with it, and I'd like to go to the President and those who advise him right now, we see in this law attempts to usurp power in one hand -- it's in the hands of the President. There's no such thing as, I think, a practice that we want to implement. Tell me, how can a minister run a ministry when he doesn't even have the opportunity to give up his deputy? How can a government today, Prime Minister, rule the government if the issue of liberation and its initiatives are completely undeclared? I don't know, I think it's a step.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u51	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u52	It can't be acceptable. And the second. I don't think we can vote because there are unconstitutional norms, and these unconstitutional norms should be the rule for the Supreme Council. Since they are, the law must be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u53	Please, Paul’s Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u54	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Please give the floor to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Mikola Tomenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u55	Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, the law is of principle important. And I wanted to pay attention to a few positions. First position. If we analyze this transition or the transfer of powers, not actually to the President -- we understand, to the President's Administration, to the government and to the ministers, from the point of view of theory, of course, this legislative act is written in the context of Ukraine as a presidential republic. I don't agree with my colleagues here, it doesn't come out of the current constitution, from the model of the Presidential Parliamentary Republic. I don't know any president who can find time to debate, agree and cooperate with deputy ministers. God grant the President to work with ministers, not what he does with the deputies or the heads of those bodies. So I think it's a wrong position to hand over a number of powers to the Prime Minister, the government in general and the ministers before, once again, the President's Administration. We had already, remember, once a President who worked as President of the President’s Administration. I am not a proponent of an acting president, but I think this law can, under certain circumstances, transform the head of the Administration, even his deputies, by status and practice, to have more authority to make a decision in the country than that of the Prime Minister and Ministers, or even the President himself. I think that's the wrong way. The second position is related to the weakening of the status of ministers. Now, if you're going to Ukraine, I think it's very soon, and we're going to have ministers to sign up to, not the heads of district administrations, but the heads of district administrations. Because these are the leaders who showed up at the local level, they say: "We work with the President, the President tells us everything, and there's the government. Well, MPs, they don't have to be people at all." And this decentralization, the autonomy of power in places, I think, is evil. Again, it is not a proponent of government or ministers. But I think that the minister is an independent, influential figure, and he has the right to decide who works at the territorial level on behalf of the Ministry, not to ask for the head of the district administration, or to head the administration to appoint a relative or a brother to the post. So conceptually, I think the bill comes out of the way of an active constitution and will have a serious problem with deterrence and counter-aggression tools. So as a representative of the opposition, I want to inform you that we will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Cibenka, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u58	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Honorable colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, can also be treated differently in this draft law, regardless of what the President of Ukraine was proposing. But the faction of the Company of Ukraine will vote in favour of these documents for the first reading, although it has some warnings. We believe that in the process of preparing for the second reading, we will be able to correct it. But I would like to make another warning about the performances of our individual colleagues. Dear colleagues, we go to the rostrum, and no doubt we claim that the law is unconstitutional or separate provisions of the law are unconstitutional. Excuse me, what are we, the Constitutional Court? Do we have that kind of authority? Are we in charge of them? I think we should be more careful about these definitions, because you and I have created the Constitutional Court, given it certain powers, certain rights to verify a particular legislative act in accordance with the Constitution. Then we will decide these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, don't argue. There is a rule in the Rules that the unconstitutionality of a particular legislative act is defined by only one body – a committee to which these matters belong. In this case, we have these issues with the Committee on Legal Policy, and he has the right to draw that conclusion. Everything else is going to be from itself, or another body called the Constitutional Court. From Reform for the Future, please, Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u60	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The MP's Group on Reforms for the Future has considered both this bill and the changes to the Cabinet of Ministers, and concludes that the two bills are very controversial, complex. Both bills have both beneficial and negative moments. But what's useful is that there's a certain distribution of powers going on in line with the direction of the ministry's work, which will allow for a real administrative reform in the future, at least to initiate it. My negative is that the very structure that is clearly enshrined in the Constitution of the Cabinet of Ministers is essentially lost. There is no understanding and meaning of the appointed prime minister and prime minister of the law. In these circumstances, therefore, we agree that we can vote in the first reading, while in the second reading we need to work very seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u61	Yes, all the rest of the groups, more loyally, the factions, had the opportunity to speak. Others don't insist? Then we'll determine. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to take the basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Central Executive Authorities, registration number 8055. Please vote. [[11:46:43]] For 262 The Law was adopted in the first reading. There's an offer, my dear colleagues, to shorten to seven days of preparation, preparation for second reading. I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:47:15.]] For 231 Dear colleagues, there will be suggestions, because whether it's 14 days, if they are, they will be, or 7 days, if they are, they will be. Yuri Anatolyovich, they're ready for you, I know. You showed me. What are you worried about? A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on Powers]] Registration number 8056. Subjects suggest that it be considered as a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:48:02]] For 210 Supported. Justice Minister Lavrinovich Aleksandar Volodymyrovich will report. From the committee to prepare Demcishen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u62	Mr. Chairman, the country's distinguished national deputies! This bill is one of the ingredients to ensure the implementation of executive reform in Ukraine. It is short enough because it touches only a few positions defined by the President of Ukraine to reform the higher body in the executive system. The first proposal is to eliminate government committees as additional bodies that do not put a positive strain on government decisions. And you know, obviously, for different prime ministers, these government organs were either created or eliminated. It is now suggested that there should be no mention of them in the law. It is also proposed that the status of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be changed, that we had a large enough apparatus that duplicated the functions of all without exception the ministries that functioned in Ukraine and separate central executive bodies. It is proposed that the secretariat be headed by its head and that the departments that ensure the functioning of the government as the higher collegiate authority of the executive branch. In addition, it is proposed to eliminate such an phenomenon as government authorities, which have been created very much as individual legal persons of public law within ministries that have created their own infrastructure for the exercise of powers that belong to the Ministry itself. And the last novel that is proposed is that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, in accordance with the law, have the right to give the mandate to the members of the government and the executive authorities. This is a position that has also been discussed for many years and has been the subject of adopting them in the Cabinet of Ministers' Rules, then cancelling them in recent years. We're proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u63	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u64	That for the efficiency of the Cabinet of Ministers such a position in the law was. Since the bill is short enough, I hope it will be supported by you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u65	Please, from the committee, the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Vasil Vasilovič Demčishen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u66	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed at its meeting on 17 February 2011 the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Cabinet of Ministers, submitted by President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine, and recognized as an urgent matter for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8056 of February 2, 2011]] The purpose of the draft law to determine the subject of the legislative initiative is to establish a more effective, than the existing, legal regulation of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as of ministers as members of the government. It is suggested, in particular, that the institutions of government bodies operating in the system of ministries as well as government committees in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be eliminated. There is a position that the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, may lead the ministry, as decided by the President of Ukraine. The individual powers of the Prime Minister of Ukraine have been changed, and innovations have been introduced to the Secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers, and so on. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of February 14, 2011, cites a number of comments to the bill and expresses the possibility of accepting it as a basis. The Committee on Budgetary Questions believes that the bill has no impact on the position of the statement of the budget. After hearing information from a subcommittee on questions of executive powers, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the First Rule of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u67	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u68	Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, submitted by the President of Ukraine, as a result of the development of the first reading, to be accepted as a basis. I hope that in preparing constructively for the second reading, along with your help, the committee will finalize the bill and present it to Parliament for further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u69	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Please, Cranville, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction, having considered the bill, concludes that, on the one hand, there are elements of a truly administrative reform in it that are also bringing to the state of de jure what is now de facto about the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. On the other hand, the law wrongs a number of problematic formulations, not fully balanced thesis and positions. Our opinion on this law. It has both positive and negative nuances. In fact, it minimizes the role of the Cabinet of Ministers as the central authority of executive power. In fact, those positives, those additional functions that are being reported to the Cabinet of Ministers, are, in fact, already being nullified by the previous bill we voted before in the first reading, where ministers are in fact no longer directing any sphere but simply coordinating certain directions in their sphere of activity. Under such conditions, it is clear that the mandate given to the Prime Minister is absolutely symbolic and will in fact have no effective consequences. We believe that after a serious revision of the second reading procedure, the bill can become really reformative. And to do some good in reforming the central authorities of executive power. And if we are, as with the previous law, going back to the accelerated preparation procedure, as is now the case for short reading, essentially the basic law that determines what constitutional order we have, and what we have and how the state governs, I fear that there will be a vote, as in a number of other bills, when a general scheme has been passed on the Ur, then it turns out that it does not work, the President's veto has been imposed, and there is a lot of shame that is sometimes written on the Supreme Council. So I asked, on behalf of our group, that we review the issue of a simplified procedure under the previous bill, and that is what we normally consider. And then it can be made an adequate reform law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u71	Please, Vladimir Moses. Viacheslav Kirilenko, please. Get ready, Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u72	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. It is a bad thing that important things are discussed under the reduced procedure. Because it is as if the authorities are finding out the relationship between themselves and each other, but it is about ministers, the work of executives, and about civil servants, who are there thousands. And the president's vertical and the country's governance. So I think that's actually a transitional text. I think all the fundamental laws will continue to change. But in the light of the changes to the Constitution that have taken place, I think it's no big deal that the President is taking on more and more responsibility. Now the minister can be released without the Prime Minister's appointment. So, for example, there was a Smoker in front of us who was going to tell a lot of lies. So now I'm going to have a question after this law, not to Azarov, who doesn't apply for the release of the Minister of Tobacco, but to President Janukovic. Because this is where the proposal is made that the Prime Minister will be released without the Prime Minister, and the President will make all the decisions directly. And in that sense, in terms of building an active vertical, I think that the President is getting extra procedural powers here, essentially, maybe not so bad. The only way to find out about these assignments is to find a relationship with the government. The President's orders are being made, of course. But the Prime Minister's orders are not cancelled. I worked in the government in 2005, received the President's mandate and the Prime Minister's mandate, which sometimes conflicted in detail or essentially with each other. I think that's where the authorities are waiting. How to deal with the legal status of such assignments is a big question for me. Well, that's the third thing I was going to say. Government committees have been canceled. But I think it's wrong. This, by the way, the government of Yehanurov renewed the government committees and it was the assistance and vice-prime ministers who coordinated the activities of the relevant ministers and public organizations and trade unions and all the interested parties who participated in the discussion of government decisions. I think it'd be good to leave it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u73	Thank you. Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, you should be glad that your goal is being reduced. It took Azarov to submit, and so directly to the President. Yes, please, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u74	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please pass the word to Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u75	Olga Bodnar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u76	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, "BUT is the Fatherland, the Fatherland Party." Dear colleagues, you know, we've just made such a mistake in the first reading, and we've also adopted the simplified procedure of the central executive authorities. If we're going to take this as a reduced procedure right now -- and I predict that because they're very complicated with each other, I think we're going to get a lack of power and the ability to work very hard in the executive power. As a lawyer, I was taught that the principal governing body of executive power was not the President, but the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, I see that the Prime Minister of Ukraine is becoming an unnecessary figure because, in principle, the President will do all of this. And his mandate, that Prime Minister, can be passed to the President's Secretariat, so let's save our state funds. Maybe this is the way out. Now, when I read the text, I want to give you a little bit of attention, except that my colleagues have already said the negative. I mean, please tell me, how can a member of the Cabinet of Ministers get out of office for this. Is the Prime Minister's mandate to release a member of the Cabinet of Ministers excluded? How can this be done by depriving the head of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of his authority? That's the first one. Why does the first one become a political office? How can this be said? Then who would work in those ministries if even the first one of us would be a political office and go, automatically freed with all of us? Profile ministries will now be appointed by agreement with the heads of the district government. Could it be that the right colleagues who said that executive bodies would soon go to the Reich administration for worship? The minister is no longer in charge. He becomes a member of the Cabinet. So, in the previous bill, we wrote that he is the head of the central executive body, and this removes the position of the minister, even though he has the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u77	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u78	He still has the right to sign the President's acts. What responsibility will he have if he is not the leader? I can't understand anything. Now, look, here's another one. The First Deputy Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, is provided for in the Constitution. Today, the President will determine who will be our first Vice Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister without agreeing with the Prime Minister, without his submission. Not enough, he's still making them ministers. What other ministers are going to do, I don't understand it either. And the Constitution doesn't give us an answer to that. I think in a good case, this bill, if you compare it to the previous one, is a little bit better, but it doesn't mean at all that it needs to be accepted in a bold way. If you accept it, I ask you very much: no less than in the first reading. And if you please, at least not under a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u79	Thank you. Question completed. What factions, the factions that didn't register, who insists? Please, Garbage, one minute. I will continue until the question is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill envisions an increase in the role of the minister as a member of the government. To this end, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act is proposed to complement the positions under which the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, is headed by the Ministry, as decided by the President of Ukraine. The amendments proposed by the draft law provide for the removal of provisions of a law that do not relate to the subject of its legal regulation, particularly those that impose the authority of the Minister of Ukraine as head of the relevant Ministry, rather than as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In addition, the bill provides for amendments to the law in part to the organization of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine through the establishment of the post of Head of the Cabinet of Ministers, the refinement of the secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the establishment of a borderline number of employees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Here's the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, other factions do not insist. Question completed. I'm voting on a proposal that is supported by a committee of professionals and the same conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on Powers]] [[Registration number 8056]] Please vote. [[12:03:29]] For 254 The factions? Please. 176 – "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 6, Communists – 22, 176 – Party of Regions, Communists – 22, Reforms for the Future – 19, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 11, and the rest did not vote. There is a proposal in line with 116 to cut the term by half. Please vote. [[12:04:17]] For 225 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please exchange in a minute. I give the word to Karmazin, let him argue why this cannot be put to the vote, please. Carmazin, after that Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u82	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, thank you for becoming more democratic, more democratic. I want to tell you that the discussion of these two very serious laws on central executives and the amendment of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine showed that we needed to have a full discussion. In this case, we are stealing from society, Adam Ivanovich, which is why we cannot do so. Because our opinion in this case is extremely important, because you've already seen that there's no thought in the government, there's just no thought. And you've seen, at least read the conclusion of the scientific expertise -- the first law is completely negative and the second law is semi-negative, and they're probably afraid of writing the truth. In principle, these laws are divided, in two words they are united: Long live the king. That's it. That's it. The law. But please don't overload the king, because he's tearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u83	Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! Well, I'm addressing a strong half of Parliament today. I understand that there are real men here and they have in their heads today, how to congratulate their beloved women, what a gift, what flowers they no longer see, they only see gifts. Therefore, of course, when we voted on the previous issue, it is simply that people have completely different thoughts — natural and normal good. And let it be that the woman is at the centre of our attention, not just on March 8, but 365 days a year. But even on this pre-festive day, when men's thoughts are occupied by the most beautiful, best half of humanity, let's go back and vote in favour of the reduced preparation procedure for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u85	Mr. Blackwall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The MPs, the members of our group while working in the session room are not something else in their heads, but the bills and the ability to make the normal text on the way out. What is the bill for an extraordinary state of affairs? Is this a bill for urgent budget changes because the flood took place? This is a bill that is actually meant to formulate a constitutional system of power in Ukraine. According to this bill, the country will live with how it will be worked out. Of course, you can do as you normally do, as you normally do, any amendments, any adjustments you take into account, any rejection, a hundred percent vote for what the committee did, and then you end up with that. Well, then it ends with the disgrace, the President's veto and the justification, the lending of eyes to the cheese of people who are now voting for a reduced procedure. We're here to work with the experts, with the institutes, to deliver the normal text. We voted in favour. Let's get some work done.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u87	Olga Bodnar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u88	Thank you. My fellow Members, I am grateful to those who have understood my request to consider this bill on a long-term basis, as provided for in the Rules, because I believe that such serious documents, which will rely on bricks as the basis of the work of executive power, cannot be accepted in such a hurry. You know, I can't understand, there's already such an idea that we're going to have a reign, a reign. How are we going to run the state if we have such corrupt bills? We're putting the country in such a dead end today. We don't have a normal system for executive power or legislative authority or the same president. You're really going to put the President in a dead end, and we're going to have a kind of, I don't know, presidential form of government there just under the Ukrainian version. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you: 7 days for such bills are very few. They're serious, they're basic, they're signs. And they need to be considered in full procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u89	Please, Yacenouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that this law, which is now being passed, will in no way affect the fate of Ukraine or the fate of the Ukrainian people. However, it will affect the fate of individual officials. A model of the constitutional presidential monarchy was established in Ukraine. I think the only thing left is that the President of Ukraine by decree appoints himself Prime Minister, because, in principle, there is no such figure as the Prime Minister, and there is no such body as the Cabinet of Ministers. There is now the only institution – the President of Ukraine and the Administration of the President of Ukraine, who is responsible for everything in the Ukrainian State. So whether this law will be passed today, whether it will be passed in two weeks, will not improve the lives of citizens, will not change in Ukraine, but will change the timetable within the Party of Regions and the vast majority. So wait two weeks, as prescribed by law, and we will vote in favour of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, communication has taken place. Each of you has the right to express what he has said. But to your notice that we have no right or right to do so, I'm returning you to the 31st article of the Rules, which speaks of the possibility of a reduced procedure, of a reduced procedure. And this was supported by the session hall. And I'm bringing you back to 116 articles of the Rules, which say that the Supreme Council ad hoc can make a one-time decision to cut the deadline by not more than half if there are no more than 100 articles in the bill. Therefore, no one violates the Rules. Who's in favour of returning to the vote, please make up your mind. This is also according to the Rules, Sergey Volodymyrovich. This is also according to the Rules. [[12:11:00]] For 236 We're back. I'm voting on the proposal for 116 articles to cut by half the deadline for drafting Bill No. 8056.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u92	[[From the Hall]] Everyone has to vote for himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u93	Please vote. [[12:11:25]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's a break of 30 minutes to 12 hours 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, we will continue our morning session. I'd like that. Now, now. I'd like to consult you about this: now we have a question to consider and we're going to consider the question of continuing the second reading, but given that we're not going to finish it, of course, if we start; and we have a decision that we can't postpone, unfortunately, is 150 years from the day of death and the hiding of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk. It is in these days that it is being fulfilled. So if there's no objection, let's take this decision now without any discussion, if you'll excuse me, Vladimir Alexandrovich, without any discussion, we'll take this decision and then we'll move on to other issues. Pussy, please. Now, now!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u95	And yet, dear colleagues, we all understand that corruption in our country has become a national disaster, so more important than anti-corruption law is not and cannot be. I propose that today, without the "Various" to consider this law until the end of the sessional day. Whoever doesn't vote for this is a corrupter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u96	Let's do it this way, dear fellows: we're going to give Yavorowski one minute, then we're going to think about Peckushenko's proposal, and we're going to figure it out. There's a draft decree on the 150th anniversary of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk's death and the day of the resuscitation, the Yavorowski project, one minute to Yavorowski, and we'll make a decision without discussion. [[8184]] Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u97	Good afternoon, Ukraine! We have, of course, extended the draft of this decision, but let's say it's better late than ever, because in six days Ukraine will celebrate -- those who know and love Shevchenka will celebrate -- 150 years from the day he died. Shevchenko died in Petersburg, died, leaving his little workshop, stretched his hands to Ukraine, and died. He was buried first in Petersburg. Then the Ukrainians who lived in Petersburg moved his body to Ukraine, this in May, we celebrate it all. We're proposing a draft decree, which, of course, we're no longer able to create anything, nor a committee, nothing. But we are obliged by the Ministry of Culture to conduct evenings at the district center level in schools. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, questions, I don't think so, everything's clear. I'm voting on the motion to adopt a decree marking 150 years from the day of the death and the day of the resuscitation of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. [[8184]] Please vote. [[12:44:37]] For 301 Decision taken. The factions. Regional Party – 165, "BUT – "Fathership" – 33, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 26, communists – 24, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 15. On this good note, I'm putting to the vote the Pellshell's proposal that by 14. There's still an offer. Please, Sas. Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u99	Thank you. Sergey Sas, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland. In fact, today is not our holiday. But we also understand the importance of the question that will be considered next. I'm talking about fighting corruption. There's just been a very good suggestion to consider canceling "Variance." But there are 100 people in the hall today. And the adoption of the law now. There is no possibility to adopt the law. So, Adam Ivanovich, don't shake your head. I ask you, in accordance with article 17 of the Supreme Council Rules, to entrust the Counting Commission with the task of determining how many people are in the hall, and can we now work productively to pass such a vital law? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u100	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. I'm going to shake my head because there are over 100 national deputies in this room. A lot more. If there's time, please count it. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u101	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! I'm talking to the people who offered to cancel the Vizne. Let's each MP prepare for this "Variance," there are a lot of problems in the country, we represent people, we want people in the "Variance" just to take advantage of the opportunity to make statements. We're just like you, supporting the fight against corruption, and let's do "Virgin." You want to adopt the law today -- let's make a decision after the "Variance" -- let's continue the work of Parliament until we adopt the Anti-Corruption Act. Or let's spend three hours after the law is passed. But to deprive fellow MPs of the right to conduct "Variance," I don't think that's right, because we all want to express the position of our electorate, and the voters have the right to do so. Thank you. I think that's the right, constructive offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u102	Constructively, I emphasize the actions of constructiveism. Dear colleagues! There were different proposals, I'll put it to a vote, but with one condition, even if we make any decisions now, we're only working today on a Friday day, which is no later than 14:15, which we don't make. It's me. Wait, I'm warning you right now, we're not going to make a decision on the extension at 14 or 14, at least, we're going to end the 15th session. With this in mind, I am voting on my colleague Pecklusenko's proposal that we now, more faithfully now and so approach him to consider the law in the second reading under number 7487, the draft of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption in Ukraine, only this issue without the question of "The Different." Anyone for such an offer, please be sure. [[12:48:31]] For 232 This is the decision of the session room. Dear colleagues! We open a comparative table, I invite you to the rostrum of Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov. Yours. Okay. I'm sorry. There was a suggestion from a colleague of Sasa that we should assign a reckoning commission to count how many are present in the hall. Who's behind this offer, please be sure. [[12:49:14]] For-53 The factions. The Party of Regions is 3, "BUT" is the "Fatherland" is 32, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 16 and the non-fractional is 2, and the other factions have not voted. The draft Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption in Ukraine is under consideration. [[Registration number 7487]] [[second reading]] On the rostrum, Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov from the committee. We stopped, that is, we adopted the second article yesterday, the first article, and we sent it to the third reading, and now we are discussing the 10th article. Please, 121 revisions. Jojik. None. Shemchuk, 122nd. Don't insist. Rybeka. Counted. Mishchenka. 127th. Don't insist. Knazevitch. 128th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u103	The honourable colleagues referred to in this article are referring to the fact that if persons who have been duly subject to this law have already been released or have ceased to perform the functions of the State, I propose that, since there is an annual limitation on their activity after that law. And in spite of these circumstances, I propose to present in a new edition, where it's clear that it's about banning them from doing anything in favour, let's say, of those, I'm not going to go into detail, let's say, subjects of entrepreneurial activity that they've been working on, not at all, that they can't even do the same thing, let's say, in this area of activity. If they provide services, actions, or inaction for the benefit of those entrepreneurial structures that they had to deal with while in office, it is logical that once they retire, they should not be in those structures openly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I think it's a reasonable offer, but not to the end, if a person doesn't work anymore, why should he be deprived of the constitutional right to do what he has to do, because he's no longer bound by law. And for a year, you're offering not to give it away. Yes, I'm putting 128 of the Prince's amendment to the vote, please. [[12:52:06]] For-23 Not supported. Yes, please. So we went through the whole article 10, I'm voting on the adoption of the 10th article, please vote. [[12:52:32]] For 239. Copy that. Those who propose to vote in favour of the abolition of the Ukrainian State, I warn you of criminal responsibility for similar calls. Yes, please, 10 prime. But I'm Ivane Vasilovich, I think we should give, once we're done, we'll make sure there's no primate. It's either the 11th or the 10th. Do you have a deal? When we're finally editing, it's 10 primes. Ten rpm. No comment. I'm putting it to a vote with an offer to either 11th or 10th, so that it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u105	No, it's rejected. That's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u106	It's rejected. [[12:53:28]] For 139 Not supported. I'm sorry, Ivan Vasilovich and I were a little off course. But decisions were made wisely. It's all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u107	It's rejected. She's gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u108	She's gone. So 11th century, Miroshnichenko, 130th. 131st, please. There they are, Knyazevitch, and Miroshnichenko, Filipenko. Yes, they are. Yes, please. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u109	It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, actually additional, you see, the table provides for consideration by the committee of this amendment, these amendments. What is it? The point is that the United Nations international convention does indeed provide for a special inspection procedure for those assigned to positions. But in the case of those who choose, such a procedure is not what is not foreseen, it is expressly prohibited by the convention. Well, for different reasons. Well, even though those who cannot set any limits other than those established by the Constitution and the corresponding laws for those who choose. And there's certainly a fear of the world's public that in that case not everyone, let's say, can be elected. In view of these circumstances, we simply keep this article in line with the convention. And so, thank you for supporting the committee, and please support it in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, in this way: in your tablet, the main table of 130, 131st, 132nd rejected. And the 133rd Carmagine, which is partially accounted for. And on the extra side, the committee suggests that we take it into account. So I'm voting on the proposal to take these amendments into account. Please vote. [[12:55:24]] For 258. Corrections supported. Yes, 135th, Carmazin, do you insist? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u112	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies, distinguished Adam Ivanovich, I address the officials of the Rules Committee. I did the math myself, the time before the vote in the room was 107 people's deputies: and most, and minorities, only 107 people's deputies. Adam Ivanovich, well, excuses adopt a constitutional, serious law. This is very shameful for us. I'm saying this for me to go back to court, Adam Ivanovich, for disobeying the Rules. To you, Adam Ivanovich, I will bring you to trial, for this is what you do. And I understand you're under pressure, but please have a rule and you have a Constitution and a law. In 135 amendments, I propose that the word "except for cases established by law" should be replaced by the words "in the order prescribed by law." That would be better from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u113	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, I confirm that you are pressing me. The thing is, I don't know, maybe lawyers. Yeah, maybe lawyers will say better, but I don't see much difference. Now, "except for the cases established by law." Yuri Anatoliyovich suggests "in the order prescribed by the law." Yes, please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u114	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the amendment made by my colleague Karmazin. But given that we have 107 deputies in the room, a kind vote is a violation of the constitutional procedure for enacting the law, and that will be the basis for declaring it unconstitutional in the future. The Supreme Council, as a higher legislature, cannot allow such a law to be considered unconstitutional by society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u115	I think that no subject in the Constitutional Court would dare to make such an application unconstitutional. And the court won't judge him. It'll be all right. Alexander Volodymyrovich, can we support Karmazin's amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u116	It's partially accounted for. I think the text that's currently being predicted is recommended by the committee, it's the right one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u117	And I think so, though not a lawyer. But I'm betting on a vote of 135. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:58:26]] For-30 The offer is not supported. 137th Shemchuck. Don't insist. 138 Vernidubov. Konovaluk. 142nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u118	Don't insist. Jojik, 143rd. Konovaluk, 144th. Miroshenko, 146th. Don't insist. 147th, Knazevitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, distinguished Alexander Volodymyrovich, if possible, is on the question, among the criteria for testing during a special examination of the appointment, there is such a requirement as an appropriate state of health. I, frankly, strongly opposed it, but then, including Alexander Volodymyrovich and I checked it, it is indeed an international convention requirement, a requirement of GRECO. I'm just asking him, Alexander Volodymyrovich, on occasion, not to be speculated. Because, believe me, a person’s health can be determined by his own judgment. If we're talking about, let's say, serious mental deviations, if we're talking about drug addiction, if we're talking about some serious infectious diseases that are chronic, there might be some kind of problem. But you agree with me, you settle somewhere, if not on the level of the law, because it is no longer possible to do so now, at least at the level of the appropriate information to be established by the Ministry of Health, when it comes to these serious chronic infectious diseases or some mental illness. Because if we are hemorrhoids, gamemourites, and all the rest of us are considered to be an improper state of health, we will have a serious, say, reason to think that they will not be fully applied here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u120	In such a case, it will be necessary to invite the maggots again. But you don't insist on voting, do you? 148th, please 148th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u121	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u122	Okay. I'm sorry, Yuri Anatoliyovich, I said that there was an amendment of yours, and I named everyone's names. 148th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u123	141st. Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u124	I'm sorry. Turn off the microphone. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I'm sorry, we can now pick up the transcript, I called your last name, including the names of other national MPs, that what was involved, including your 141 amendments, that it was counted. Are you insisting? Well, please. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u125	If you count it, I don't insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u126	It's the 141st. Yes, please, your 148th. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u127	Yuri Carmazin. I'm asking you to turn on my timer. Dear Adam Ivanovich, we have different terms in this article: special inspection, and then information. We, if we unify them and say that verification and information is the same thing, that's the word "information," that's the same thing, that's not what we're doing. And the first reading was more correct when it was written. I now propose that this state of health, education, the availability of a scientific degree, a scientific title, a higher qualification should be ruled out simply.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u128	Your right, but I think you've been among those who have fought quite hard against forgers of various degrees and degrees. I'm putting Amendment 148 to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:02:28]] For -6 Not supported. 149th, Filipenko. Don't insist. Miroshenko, 150th. Don't insist. Logwinko, 153rd. None. Mishchenka, 154th. Also. 156th, Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u129	I don't insist, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, please note. 156th Amphibians, in the base table 156 is rejected, but in the extra one it's included. That's why I'm putting 156 amendments on accounting. Please be supportive. The 156th Amphibians are in favor. [[13:03:25]] For 263 Amendment 156 included. 157th, Mishchenko. It's also turned down and sawdust 158th, rejected. And 159 Carmazine is rejected. I'm sorry, don't beat me up. They're in the base table, they're in the extra table. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to include the 157th Mishchenk, the 158th Pilpenka, Pisarenko, the 159th Carmazin. One amendment, but different authors. I'll put it to a vote. I'd like to vote in favour. It's one amendment, but the authors are different, or different amendments to the same thing. [[13:04:21]] For 268. Got it. Yeah, 160th Knazevitch. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u131	I'm filming it because it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u132	Thank you. All right, 160, we're clear. Budgerak, 162nd. Oh, it's counted. Knazevitch, 164th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u133	Well, it is here that such help is determined by the Ministry of Health. I would very much ask, because we can't really exclude this point, but what I said above is that it should be a special category of diseases: mental illness, drug addiction, chronic diseases, there, serious infectious diseases, not any disease that some official will define as not a proper state of health, because we're going to go so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u134	What about head disease? Yes. It means parts of the body. 165th, Filipenko. Don't insist. Shemchuk, 166th. No, it's not. Counted. Shemchuk, 168th. Yes. Thus, fellow believers, we have the opportunity, taking into account what we considered in the 11th article, to vote in the 11th article as a whole. Please be supportive. [[13:05:55]] For 268. Article 11 — What Does the Jacinoc, 172nd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, this is about a declaration of expenditure. That's a very important question, because actually that's the basis for fighting corruption. When it comes to declaring, this law, first of all, does not specify what costs will be declared. Secondly, I have deep doubts about the form of a declaration. And thirdly, the declaration, as well as the valid declaration issued by government officials, will probably not take into account the most important in the future, is the availability and declaration of cash. After all, according to the composition of a corrupt crime, money is usually carried in suitcases rather than in bills. In view of this, the mandatory declaration of cash in this form of declaration should be made. That's why I'm calling my fellow MPs: This will affect the form of a declaration that will be approved by either the government or the two ministries.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u136	I'll put it to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. 172 revisions. [[13:07:22]] For-32 Dear colleagues. 32. Dear colleagues, please listen carefully to my offer. I propose that in the first part of the 12th article, "Financial control" where the language goes "according to a form approved in accordance with the law by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine" be written "according to the following form," and this form of declaration should be added as a body of law so that no department or ministry approves it. So I'm proposing this first part. Now, Alexander Volodymyrovich. So we can give it a chance. We're still going to be correcting something before the third reading, and we've already sent an article to confirm this form with you before the third reading -- and no one has ever bothered anyone, I'm sorry, to have her in law. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u137	I want to support this proposal by Adam Ivanovich, since there is already a decision to refer to the third reading of an article. Obviously, if there's a form of declaration in the law itself, in this 12th article, there will be no claim to any kind of information about any position that is unaccounted for, or unnecessary positions put in the declaration, because today we have different forms of declarations: for civil servants, for candidates to the MPs and others. So today, we have a very large discrepancy in the form of the declaration itself, if it is defined in the law of one form for all -- that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u138	Yes, please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I agree with this proposal, but here there are two nuances, first of all, it can't be a form in the article itself. It can be a supplement to the law. And that's very important. That is, this article should mention the form set out in Appendix One of this Law. With regard to the content of the declaration itself, it is necessary to determine the method of justification according to which amount should be provided for each article. Perhaps there is a point to predict not only the declaration itself but also the method of its completion. Because it is always before the declaration is made and the decision of the Ministry of Finance, as it is filled in, is valid. What should be indicated?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u140	Jacineuk, then Bebelz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u141	This is a very important question. If we confirm the form and this is a very wise proposal from you, Adam Ivanovich, to approve the form by the decision of Parliament itself, then the question arises: How can this form be filled? And what's going to be the cost? Because one situation where we're now being shown at the expense, well, just show the cost, for example, of keeping your property. Another situation is when a person who is subject to this law buys a car for cash, for example, and this is not provided for by law. So who will determine the order, firstly, the completion of the declaration, secondly, which refers directly to expenditure, and what should necessarily be declared as the costs of a public official? And how do we do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u142	Beams, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I don't see the problem at all. I think both the form and the content of the declaration will be confirmed here in this sessional room. So there's absolutely no problem that we're actually going into the process right now. Let's move on. We'll suggest a session room form, and then we'll determine exactly what should be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u144	Thank you. I'm totally in solidarity with Valery Ananiyovich. When this is confirmed by the form that we fill out with you, there is a form and an explanation of how to do it. So let's write in the 12th part, which is the form. in the form established by this Act (Appendix No. 1). And in this Appendix 1 there's a declaration where there's a form and where there's an explanation of where to write and how to fill in ink. I'm putting this motion to a vote, please support. [[B in m in s a l in]] Form and content. Well, that's it. The content will be clear. And form is content, Yura. [[13:12:02]] For 263 This idea is supported. So once again, on the third reading, we're going to be with you, including, and we're going to confirm the pattern. Not an example, but a form itself, including the contents of this declaration. Yes, Omelchenko, 176th. 175th Street, yes, please. Stratovitch microphone, please. 175th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u145	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Vladimir Stretović, Christian Democratic Union. My suggestion is that in this article I propose to add not only the declaration of the entities mentioned in sub-paragraph 1 of Sub-paragraph A of Part Two but also to make declarations of the persons closest to them listed in part 1 of the first article of this Act. The committee’s argument is somewhat legally incorrect because they refer to the Constitutional Court’s decision that the admission to work does not allow for the verification of the property status of the loved ones. In fact, when a person becomes a civil servant, it is not known whether they will accept it or not, but then when a person becomes a civil servant, another legal status, including this law, extends to him. Therefore, I feel it necessary that after a person becomes a civil servant, the person mentioned in article 1 of this Law should make a corresponding declaration to his or her loved ones mentioned in this law. Then we can break the back of corruption. And if that is not the case, it is all a vain thing, all of it from the wicked one. So I ask you to put it to a vote to supplement the law with such an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do more wisely. The point is that you and I have decided that we will approve the form of the declaration and the content. So I suggest that the 13th article now be sent to the third reading. Because on the third reading, when we confirm the form, there's all that we're talking about, and it's going to be said whether it's just ours or just relatives and so on and so forth. Article 13 votes for third reading. 12th, I'm sorry. Given what we've already voted on. Please vote: The 12th article should be sent to the third reading. [[13:14:35]] For 260 Consider article 13. Mishchenko, 207th Amendment. Don't insist. Verni Dubov, accounted for. I'm sorry, Kozemyakin. Where's Kozemyakin? We are considering article 13. With 12 articles, I explain, in view of the fact that we have already voted that neither Minfin nor Mingust will approve the form of the declaration, we will go through the 12th article completely on the third reading. So please, Ryabek, I saw that your proposal was, but we'll look at it in the third reading. Please, Rybeki's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u147	I thank you very much for your word. And I'd like to tell you all that we haven't reached my point of view, which is exactly what it predicts, and how it's written down according to the European standards that should be in the declaration. So if you've already voted, then how do you figure out how to take it all into account now?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u148	It's very simple, Alexander. Consider, the committee will work on all these proposals. Therefore, those interested and those who have proposed in article 12 ask me to work with the committee and the working group to work with what we have. And he's not a member of the committee, I know. For us to have, indeed, when we consider the matter from all sides so that we can make a wise decision. Please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u149	Dear Adam Ivanovich! We all realize that the absence of this norm in article 12, which provides for the declaration of income to close relatives, completely excites individuals with this anticorruption bill, is the first. Secondly, our political power, the BUT faction, the Fatherland, is for fighting corruption, for fighting corruption, by law. Today we're adopting this bill to combat corruption in corruption because 100 people are sitting there and they're adopting this bill, and then they're going to put students, teachers, doctors, and everyone else who's still to be intimidated. So it's not a bill to fight corruption, it's a bill to fight opposition. Our faction is no longer in this farce to take part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u150	Andriy Anatoliyovich, a few comments, first of all, do not sit, but are present in the session room. Second, you and I, once again, have failed to identify ourselves with the 12 articles and talk about what we have taken away, what our relatives will not include here, whether we can’t have someone else, because we sent the 12th article for further work. And when we accept it in the third reading, they will delete it, delete it or not, and now there is no basis for that accusation. Please, Jojik, no. Mishchenka, 211. I'm sorry, article 13 votes. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u151	There is a note, Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u152	What is the point? To what? And we will. Take down the vote. 208th, Verni Dubov's accounted for, but there's Carmazin's note, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u153	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I have a lot of respect for Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov, and the point is that in the first reading, we had the words "the law that defines" written down in the second part of the Code of Conduct. By legislation that defines the organization, the order of action of the public authorities and the local self-government authorities, and we are asked to write instead "the laws and other legal acts that determine." We've agreed with you since the first article that everything has to be governed only by laws, there can be no more legal and regulatory acts to establish grounds by making a commitment that violates the Constitution, we've talked to you about it. And now we're re-entering the terms "and other normative acts that define," which is why we're doing this and expanding this base. Let's go back to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u154	I agree with you in half, but only in half. Because you know that there will be positions about each organ of central executive power, the position about organs. The law on every ministry we don't write with you and you don't have to write, it's not a law, it's a normative act. And the ministry or department will record some binding moments in the fight against corruption. I mean, I think your amendment, which is your criticism of Verni Dubov's amendment, is groundless. But I'm voting on the proposal to support 208 amendments that are included. Please vote in favour. [[13:20:09]] For 246 Correction supported. I'm betting on the vote of the 13th article. Please vote. [[13:20:28]] For 257 Copy that. Consider article 14. 209th. Don't insist. 210th. Counted. 211th. Mishchenka. Don't insist. I put the 14th article on the vote. Please vote. [[13:20:55]] For 252 Copy that. Article 15 — What Does the It's 212. Don't insist on Knyazevitch. Mishchenko 13th, 14th. Conovaluk 216 doesn't insist. Yes, I'm putting 15 articles on the vote, please. [[13:21:27]] For 259. Adopted on the 15th. For more information, see Myrrhichenko 217th. You insist. 219th Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! Adam Ivanovich! Alexander Volodymyrovich! I'd still like to hear the arguments that I'm about to make, because that's a very important thing. The point is that this law lays down requirements for transparency of information. And here in one of the sub-items is a language that is unreliable or not fully public information. This paragraph is contrary to the Law on Access to Public Information that we have just adopted. For in that law there is a language that they should really give. But only the information provided by that law. Not just any public one, but one established by special law. So I ask in a new edition to add the words "which is provided by law." This is very important, for when the first reading was written, the Law on Access to Public Information had not yet been adopted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u156	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich, I think you will agree that we should not accumulate in the law a reference to laws yet. We passed a law that would work. I'm putting to the vote 219 amendments. Please. Carmazine's two words. The vote is off. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u157	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich! There's no accumulation here. Actually, he's absolutely right now, Prince. This is not about the need for information, but it is only about the information provided by the law, which does not apply, let’s say what your children are wearing today and so on, if written. Only the information provided by the law. That's why I'm addressing General Beales, I'm asking you, well, you misinformed Adam Ivanovich. I have great respect for you. Let's write it right now as proposed by Ruslan Knyazevich. And it would be correct to write in this context "to provide unreliable or incomplete information as provided by law." It's only gonna be right. This does not mean that something that you had breakfast there this morning and something else that someone else might want, such information that can be brought to account later. Only for what is clearly provided for by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u158	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, you're a great lawyer. Can you please tell me who's going to make the assessment, give me reliable or unreliable information? Is it complete or incomplete information about the same dress? I'll do it. What law? I'll do it, but they'll say, "What are you wearing?" I'll write, "41 size," actually, let's say 42. Who's going to set 41 or 42? Is there a special standard in law? Why are we still in the law so that when we read the law, no one understands what we are talking about? Please, Beavs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u159	Adam Ivanovich, I want to tell you that Yuri Anatolyevich is so persuasive that he even mentioned me. But I completely agree with you. People good, we have a new Law on Access to Public Information, what else do we invent? So I think we should accept Adam Ivanovich’s offer and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u160	The Prince and we will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, the point is that the Public Information Access Act defines a certain list of information that belongs to the category "confidential", "officer" and "secret." And it's this law that determines that this information can have a limited-access graph. And if we write that any public information should be useful, if I don't, even one that falls under this category, it's going to be a corrupt act. Although the Law on Public Information says that this is not a corrupt act. I'm just asking you to reconcile the first reading to that law that was passed later than the law that was passed in the first edition. I'm not asking for anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u162	Now, in the first part of paragraph 1, we have 16 articles in the first section of paragraph 1, which reads: "To deny natural or legal persons information to which these natural or legal persons are provided by law." On the right-hand side, there's a second point: "to provide timely, unreliable or incomplete information that is subject to the provision of the law." That's what's on the right-hand side. I don't know what we're arguing about. Please see page 70, the final edition. This is the third last column, fourth, more faithful. The last right column is what we accept. It's right here. It's practically what you're saying. But I'm voting on Amendment 219. I'd like to make up my mind. It's in the law, unfortunately. Here we go. She is. You know, it is, it's a vote, I don't know why the committee wrote. [[13:26:55]] For 218. But once again, look at the last column. The bill proposed by the Main Committee in its final edition. It's in the final lineup. Yes, please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u163	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national MPs, in fact, the committee, when he was working, took this amendment into account, in fact, except for one word of "formulation." In this case, therefore, the reference to the obligation to provide information according to the law is fully valid, and this is the decision of the committee that proposes. But since this has been added and was not included in the first reading, we must now support the editorial proposed by the profiling committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u164	It's an understandable clarification. So let us, as they say, vote, vote on page 70, first and second paragraphs of the first part of the 16th article, to confirm what the committee has adopted. Please vote. I see. And that's essentially what you're doing. It's the same thing. I'm gonna say it again. [[13:28:14]] For 261 Yes, we consider that the amendment, including the Prince, is included because it is also in this part. Konovaluk 221st. False Wheat, 222nd. Don't insist. Thus, article 16 puts me to a vote. Please vote. [[13:28:50]] For 259. Copy that. For more information, see Here's a note, more faithful. By 17? Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u165	Yuri Carmazin. First of all, I want to inform the Ukrainian people that 61 people are now in the room, including Adam Ivanovich. Adam Ivanovich, you're 61st, welcome to this. We adopt the fateful law by 61 votes. I'm talking to the pianists, and if we've voted the amendments before and there's an amendment in the right column counted, then you write it down for the protocol so it's clear that the amendment of Knyazevitch 219 is counted so that you don't get accused of forging. Why did I now raise what I have to say in article 17? There it was that the ban on the acquisition of government revenue and local self - government was imposed. All right, ladies and gentlemen, let's stop feeding the people with these comings. This article was correctly written. And now the service and the property will be written down only, and the coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u166	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, about the pianists and the hall, there is only one thing I would like to say: Those who are active in this pedaling should be in the workplace. We're still on for work. And those who have left the session hall are violating both labour legislation and the Constitution, and by large do not have the right to receive a salary for today because you support or do not support the law is your business, but are obliged to be in the workplace during work hours. Article 17 votes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u167	There are no amendments there. 117th article, taking into account the correction that is included. [[13:31:09]] For 257 Taking into account the Bugerak revision. Article 17 was voted on. 18th. Knazevitch, 226th. Don't you insist, Jaroslav?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u168	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u169	No, it's not. Rybeka. Counted. Omelchenko. Counted. Rybeka, 229th. Don't insist. Knyazevich, 231st, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, well, here we make our own lives difficult. The point is that representatives of the public can participate in open parliamentary hearings on prevention and opposition to corruption. First, all the other possible debates came out of this list: conferences, round tables, any hearings, open other public actions, they came out of this context at all, and here they have to be taken into account. Because it turns out that the public can only listen to corruption in parliamentary hearings. And all they can do about other public action is they can't take part -- it's absurd, it has to be complemented. Because we just have a problem that we can't put them all in here, so there's no problem. So, what, from all over Ukraine, in order to discuss, should once every five years, when such a hearing occurs, all come together in Kiev? That's absurd. There they should mainly discuss, because there's more corruption they're interested in than under the dome of parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u171	Beams, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u172	I'd like to answer to the honourable Russian Petrovich. Ruslan Petrovich, paragraph 6 of this article, read literally the article itself: “to conduct, order research, including scientific, sociological, and anti-corruption.” Here are your round tables, here are your discords and so forth. So it's not appropriate at all to make any changes to this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, I think if we write it down, Alexander Volodymyrovich, if we support Knyazevitch, I see absolutely nothing there. He wants the public of the brothers, let him take it. Right? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen of the nation! Of course, nothing here is going to affect that, because no one has the right to prohibit or allow a public organization to hold a conference. This question that he is, that he is gone, he will have no effect on anything. With regard to parliamentary hearings, the admission to the session room of Parliament requires a special decision. And what's being written next, ordering experts, exercising public control, it needs to be normalized. So I would ask you not to insist, Ruslan Petrovich, because this rule is absolutely declarant and will not affect anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u175	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u176	Alexander Volodymyrovich, and if the authorities and self-government are holding conferences and round tables, we can get the public there, given that this is not provided for in the law? Here, as the official will determine. It won't spoil the mess, I agree. But from the point of view of manipulation, well, me. I don't insist on correction. But so that we don't just have problems with access to such people, to some of the things that power and self-government do, let's say, in places or organs even in central executive power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, listen, if we write this down, "take part in parliamentary hearings and other anti-corruption measures." Can we put it this way, "parliamentary hearings and other actions"?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u178	We can, but it'll take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u179	Let's vote. I think let the public take part. Vote. You're getting ready to move on to that condition. [[13:34:56]] For 260 Supported. Yes, Filipenko, 232nd. Don't insist. Rybek, accounted for. Schemchuk. Verni Dubov is accounted for. Yes, so, dear fellows, we can vote on the 18th article. I'll put it to a vote. Please vote. System? Let's vote, I've got a job. I think it's gonna be okay. [[13:35:27]] For a hundred and Indeed, the honourable colleagues, now, but look at one part works, the other part doesn't. Yes, yes, no doubt. Let's try it again. I'll put it to a vote. Let's try it, dear fellows. I put the 18th article to the vote. Please vote. [[13:36:21]] For 261 Copy that. We'll get right on it, dear fellows. 19th. Shemchuck, 235th. Don't insist. Article 19 — What Is the 237th, Jojik. 239th. Yes, 19 is over. I am voting on article 19. Please vote. [[13:37:00]] For 260 Copy that. Article 20. It's just Jojik, isn't it? Don't insist. I put 20 articles on the vote. Vote. [[13:37:26]] For 259. There are no comments until the 21st. I put the 21st article to the vote. Vote. And we agreed that they would be brought into line. There will be a third reading for that purpose. [[13:37:48]] For 259. Article 22 — What Does the Konovaluk, 242nd. Don't insist. 243 is the same thing. Article 22 is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:38:16]] For 261 There are also no comments to the 23rd article. Article 23 is also being voted on. Vote. [[13:38:39]] For 259. Supported. 2447 is Knyazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u180	I would like to find out if a representative of the committee will explain. The point is that we are saying that a crime committed as a result of corruption is worthless at once, even in an unappealable order. I propose that the court should still declare such an offence invalid. For it may not happen that there may be some speculation on this matter, especially in such thorny matters as crimes that are not declared corrupt. For let it be the prerogative of the court, the court shall take all appropriate evidence into account, and shall render its own judgment, not give to officials who will be their own, for the sake of their own agreement, or for their own benefit, or perhaps any purpose of declaring those or other acts worthless. How do you feel about taking an official to court?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u181	Now. Ruslan Petrovich, but you have an explanation with reference to article 228 of the Civil Code. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u182	Yuri, Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Party, distinguished Adam Ivanovich, Minister. Look, in the first reading, we wrote in the title of the article: illegal legal acts and laws. And it's still coming along, but it's still been spelled out, and the court order of annulment -- everything was spelled out correctly. Then came Amendment 245, there proposed: in the title of the article, after the words "acts" and the words "unworthy" and the words "in the court order after the present. According to an interested natural person, the unification of citizens would replace the words "in accordance with the law defined." There's a mistake here, you don't have to support that. You have to leave the first reading and then what Ruslan Knyazevitch is talking about right now fits into this legal field. So the first reading in this case is better thought out than is being drawn up. I'm asking you to give up the editorial that the committee is now proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u183	So, Alexander Volodymyrovich, what's the Ministry's opinion? I think, really, the first edition was better. 218th and 219, that's on page 86.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u184	I also support the idea that the first reading is, in my view, more accurate. And there is no reason for subjectiveness, no reason for what they said. Because if corruption is already established by the court, and it has been made for the issue of an act, then the authority that issued it can cancel it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, I put 24 articles in the first reading edition. Please be supportive. [[13:41:54]] For 260 Supported. Article 25. 250th, Knyazevich. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u186	And I wanted to do it again, and here's the thing about any damage, they're being adequately compensated by the state budget of Ukraine. I propose to replace the word "state," because not all damages require monetary compensation. For example, if a person is to be treated, he simply needs to be treated with normal medication and, normally, with normal equipment. Either that or rest or in some other way. Whether it needs to be built there, such as an attic or something. Not everything can be compensated by the State Budget in monetary form, something needs to be done, such as in commercial form or in other forms. The state must do so, and in what way, let the state determine itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u187	Ruslan Petrovich, but there is that the State, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the authorities of the local self-government that compensated for the damage, there's a second sentence, in fact, that's what he's talking about because. Miroshenko, please. Myrrhenyczka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u188	Honorable Jaroslav Petrovich, taking into account how our nation fulfills its obligations to its citizens, we should not only identify the subjects but also the sources. If a person receives money, he will heal well, and he will be able to solve all his problems. If we say so in general, no one will do so and will have a chance to refer to some abstract norm. So absolutely correctly, I insist that the definition of "the source of the state budget" be enshrined in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u189	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u190	Yuri Romanovich, it is no longer correct, at least because the second part is about local self-government bodies financed from local budgets. This is only about the state budget. It's already incorrect. But if you want this burden to be on the state budget, even those that are affected by the local budget, there are no questions, we will support it. Only you will then say that it violates the budget code and the Constitution. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u191	If I'm not mistaken, no local budget without the state budget is worth it. Everyone has subsidies. Right? I'm voting on Prince 250's proposal. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:44:36]] For-13. Article 25 puts to the vote. Please. [[13:44:57]] For 251 Supported. 26 The article puts the vote to a vote. There are no amendments to it. Article 26 votes. [[13:45:17]] For 247 Yes, dear fellows, 27th, pay attention. Is there a 253? Yes, please, 253, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! We're not doing the right thing right now because Knyazevich warned you that if the damage was caused and we have to reimburse it from the local budget, we're now writing everything from the state, we're talking about that we accepted the standard of the dead, we're going to have to complete it during the third reading. I'm talking to my colleague Behiz, please finish this! Because now people are responding, Azarov says that there is no money in the budget and everything, and there is no execution, the court decisions are not being implemented, we're discrediting the state, if we want for our uncle to adopt the law, for our uncle. Now it's 253. The 253th doesn't include, partially, but not included, the proposal that the Committee of the Supreme Council on Anti-Criminal and Corruption presents to the Supreme Council an annual report on the state of anti-corruption and on those who are held accountable for committing corruption. Worldwide, such committees make annual reports on why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u193	Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u194	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to ask you to support the first reading because the introduction of a subject such as the Supreme Council committee with a specific name would be contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to the rest, which also dealt with the issue. So I would like to support the text that was introduced by the President of Ukraine in article 27.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u195	Dear colleagues! We're talking about the Supreme Council, here's what the Supreme Council means, the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council for the Constitution is right, so I'm proposing to vote on the 27th article in the first reading, please support, in the first reading. [[13:47:40]] For 255 Supported. By the 28th and 29th, if there's no objection, there's no one? I'll bet. Is it 29? Then the 28th vote, please, we vote 28th. [[13:48:07]] For 263 Although, dear colleagues, I take the opportunity to appeal to the committee heads, all without exception, not to allow the same in the tables, that the text of the part is edited. It must be someone’s amendment to see that it is an amendment, not just an editorial one, that does not fit the Rules. It's me to everyone, it doesn't matter what committee I'm paying attention to. For articles 29 and 29, see Awake! Knyazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, we discussed yesterday, reminding you whether the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office have the right to be specially empowered and supervised at the same time. The session room decided that they could, I have my own position on this point, but understanding that there's a position that they can do at the same time, let's at least take this article where they can, because we're writing above that they're coordinating and supervising. Here we are again separating and again writing that they are again overseeing at the very end, let's logically build the law. Where this is going to happen, you have to write, and here, in your tail, mentioning surveillance is somehow inappropriate, because it's a serious institution, even more important than their role in anti-corruption specialty.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, I wanted to find it quickly, it's hard because we're in the process of working, but I think colleague Knyazevich is right, we've already talked about it in the preceding articles. So let's make it clear on the third reading that there are no repetitions, because we've already talked about it. Please, Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u198	Dear Adam Ivanovich, there you spoke of who are the subjects, the list of subjects. But always in law at the end we say public control and state control, prosecutorial supervision. So it's not repeated here, and there are different shades and different facets.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, may I ask you a question more clearly, who wants to argue with the Attorney General's Office? One. So I'm voting on the 29th article. Please vote. In line with article 29, we are voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u200	Prince, write your last name down, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u201	No, he already understood his mistake. [[13:50:41]] For 239. He withdrew his remark. So the 30th "International Cooperation" has no comments. I'm betting on 30 articles. [[13:51:05]] For 255 Yes. Dear colleagues! 31st. 32nd. And the 33 can probably be accepted. No notes?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u202	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u203	Then I put to the vote articles 31, 32, 33. Please vote. [[13:51:38]] For 256 Of course, we vote, if I don't say otherwise, the committee's proposed editorial vote. Yes, please. Vote. Did you have any comments? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u204	Adam Ivanovich! I'd still like to go back to the 250th Amendment of Kniazewicz. Because I think that in this case he has an absolute offer, it's perfectly logical, because in the damage part, we have to anticipate different sources of compensation -- not just the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u205	Let's go back, dear fellows, and we'll go back to this amendment on the third reading -- think about it, talk about it, if we have to, because we have something to clarify. And then we'll come back again. It's easier for us not to decide now, as it were on the move, and when you're seriously working in a narrow circle of gifted people on this bill, I think you'll find a way out of this situation. The gifted should not be involved, only the gifted should they come. You go into their number, Ruslan. "The End of Positions." Yeah, "Final Positions" now, first and second-- no notes, right? Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u206	Adam Ivanovich, I have a principled remark. You remember the Conciliation Council on Monday, and we agreed that we were dividing the law into two laws. Are we going back to this idea of her or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u207	We're going back.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u208	If not, no. I'm just pointing out to you that we've talked about this and made a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, we have actually agreed, and this has already been done in our practice over and over again. In order for the law to be, it is said, unannounced, it will be the law as it is called: the means of preventing corruption in Ukraine. And the second part, which we're going to vote as one law, but when we're preparing for signing, is going to be the second part, that we're going to make changes to the laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of this law. It makes more sense, it makes more sense. I don't see a problem here. We've always done that. But we accept, so to speak, we're one law, well, then at the signing stage, when we finally vote, we vote on this proposal, that it's going to be two laws. Please, Karmazin. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u210	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear comrades, I would like to draw your attention to two things that are unacceptable. When we passed the Cabinet of Ministers Act, remember, and when we made changes to other laws, we immediately forgot 32 laws, I forgot to say, because we didn't, but this is how we wrote down and made two laws, Adam Ivanovich. And then it's wrong, but you liked it, you liked it, but it was wrong. Now you're right in fact, this has to be divided, but you have to register as it is, and you have to do it by law, and you have to make the amendments there. And now, about your offer, you can't do that, Adam Ivanovich. It's going to be a forgery. And now for the amendment of 258. I want to make a point, here's "The End and Transitional Positions" being suggested by the word "transitionals" to rule out. That's not right. Because this law cannot immediately enter into force, and it can act on all categories of persons. It's not physically possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u211	Dear colleagues! Yuri Anatoliyovich, the law is, it's submitted by the President. But we're going to divide the law into two laws at the time of the final edition. I don't see anything here. We're not breaking it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u212	We can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u213	You're in. This is one moment. The other one. If we go to that, we'll have in the End Positions only that this law takes effect from the day it was published. Publishing and all. Because now I'm going to keep going. This is just going to be the end. They won't even have to be finished. Let's just write down what it acquires from the day it's published, and all the rest of it -- make changes to such legislation in Ukraine -- it's going to be in the second law. Because it is proposed that, honourable colleagues, to exclude the second part of the "Principal Provisions" "to bring Ukraine's legislation into conformity with this law, the legislation is applied in a part that is not contrary to this law." There's an offer to clean it up. So, dear colleagues, I propose, I propose chapter 8 of the Final Position, not to write, but just to vote, "this law takes effect from the day it is published," and what we're going to consider in terms of amending the laws is what we're going to do. Please vote on this proposal. Without the second part of the introduction of Ukrainian legislation, it is applied in a part that does not conflict with the law. Please support this proposal. Vote. [[13:57:08]] For 254 Supported. Now we go to the second part or the second law to amend certain legislation. Yes, please, in the Code of Administrative Offences, 264 amendments. Voropeiev doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u214	But it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u215	Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u216	It's practically accounted for because we accepted his offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u217	I see. Mishchenka, 265th, no. Voropeyev, 266th, Voropeyev, 266th. Yes. So I understand what we can do. Oh, no, no, no, no. He was 267. Jojik. There are no other amendments. So we can vote on amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. That's what 93, 4, and 5 and 6 pages. Please vote. Take down the vote. What about Prokopchuk? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u218	I understand there's a torpedo going on now, so I can get this whole thing done. But it's appropriate, as they say, those amendments that I think deserve attention. For example, 268 is mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u219	Sorry, we haven't got to 268 yet. We're not there yet. I stress once again, I am voting on the proposal to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. Please vote. [[13:59:02]] For 252 Now chapter 13a is "Administrative Corruption Offences." 268 counts. Prokopchuk has a warning. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u220	Counted. Actually, 269 is mine, Verni Dubo's account. What is it? Well, there's just some sort of sanctions coming up when we have more than five untaxed minimums, so we have a little bit of it, but often. If it takes up to 85 dollars, there is absolutely no responsibility. I just want to open up a picture that's in separate institutions today, including state institutions, when there's a fee just for some help, but it works all the time, for example, 50 bracelets. This is done on a regular basis, on a regular basis, and everyone knows it. And the responsibilities, at least the administrative ones, don't come. So my suggestion is to replace the words "that does not exceed five non-taxable minimum incomes of citizens" with the words "that does not exceed one untaxed minimum income of citizens."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u221	You narrow it down, but that's your right. I'll put 269 to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:00:34]] For the five of us. Not supported. 270th, Prokopchuk. Likewise, there is only a slightly different edition, not one, but a small sum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u222	Actually, it's the same thing again. I want to make a point of what we're going to have in Gogol soon: borrow puppies will be there and so on and so forth. If we want to fundamentally combat corruption in all the echelons of power, starting from above and below in state institutions, not just with teachers and doctors, scientists there and entrepreneurs, it is still necessary to set this standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u223	270 votes. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:01:26]] For the And 275, Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u224	It's the same thing, and it's actually talking again about relevance and the healthy structure of the law, but I see there's no support, because obviously in our country today, nobody wants to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u225	Don't insist. That's how we put it. Is he insisting? I don't understand. You're not still a digger. If you're a digger, then you'll insist. I'll put 275 to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:02:19]] For -14 Not supported. I'm betting on the vote on article 172 prime. 2. Please vote. [[2:02:42]] For 242 142 pm. 3 The article is under consideration. Yes, Prokopchuk, 277th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u226	277 articles also consistently speak of what I have already heard if we want to fight corruption directly. I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u227	The 277 is on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:03:23]] For the four of us. Not supported. 279, Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u228	The words "which does not exceed 5 non-taxable minimum incomes" replace the words "at a small size," because once again, when we tie ourselves solely to 85 bracelets we can demand from people, abuse, brothers, and for that nothing happens, I want to let you know, by the way, that already in the Criminal Code, there is a largely reduced plank on the basis of which in other crimes criminal responsibility begins. And we don't want to see that in the echelons of power. That's why I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u229	The amendment shall be voted on. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:04:30]] For the five of us. Not supported. 280th, Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u230	This amendment refers to the imposition of fines. On the other hand, a fine of 50 to 100 untaxed minimums is proposed for mitigation, increased liability, which is more than the standard, the proposed standard. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u231	It's the 280th vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:05:15]] For the five of us. Not supported. 281 repairs, Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u232	In fact, once again it is said that there is a need to increase, because there is, by the way, a colossus. And the removal of this coalition may also be by replacing part two of article 172.2 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences with the words "that does not exceed a hundred untaxed minimum citizens' incomes" with the words "five or more untaxed incomes." Because there really is a conflict. I think that, Ivan Vasilovich, as a light of legal science, you would have to pay attention to that too. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u233	The light of law suggests an amendment to the vote, but the committee does not support it. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:06:20]] For the five of us. Puts to the vote article 172, para. 3. Please vote. [[14:06:40]] For 249 Supported. 172, p. 4. Yeah, it's all taken into account. I'm going to be 172. Please vote. [[14:07:07]] For the 250. 172 p.m. 5. Mishchenka. Overruled. Don't insist. 172 rpm. 6 – no comments. I'm betting on the vote on article 172 prime. 5 and 172. Please vote. [[14:07:41]] For the 250. Thank you. The following articles are put to the vote, yes, 172 primes. Seven, accounted for. 172 rpm. 8 - accounted for. 172 rpm. 9 is all accounted for. The vote is 172. 7, 172 prime. 8, 172, prime 9. Please vote. 172, prime 9. [[14:08:22]] For 243 Copy that. Yes, article 221, 221, yes, 296 amendments are included. That's it. No, it's rejected. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Then I put 221 to the vote. Please vote. [[14:08:59]] For 249 257 articles, 257 articles, rejected. Mishchenka, 303rd and Voropeyeva 304th, do not insist. I'll put it to a vote on 257th. Please vote. [[14:09:27]] For 249 Article 277: accounted for, accounted for. 277 articles and 277 p.m.2, please vote. [[14:09:54]] For 248 Supported. Article 285, Mishchenka 308 is not included, does not insist. I'll put 285 on the vote. Please vote. [[14:10:21]] For 244 Supported. We are now amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine, article 18. The wheat, 310th, does not insist. Mishchenka, 11th. Sweden, 12th. Pencil, 313, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u234	The amendment has been partially taken into account, but nevertheless, the comments have already made that it is not just about the funds that are financed by the State or by the local budgets. So here's the proposition: the words "which are financed by the State and Local Budget" are replaced by the words "independent on the legal form and form of ownership." I think it'll be absolutely appropriate and it'll be the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u235	Vote Amendment 313, please identify yourself. [[14:11:22]] For the 17th. Not supported. Then there's the 18th article as a whole, please vote. Of course. [[14:11:43]] For 242 Supported. 353rd article, that's where it's all accounted for. 358th. Yes, yes, please, what are your adjustments? Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u236	To the article. George Carmazin, I have to go to article 353. I'm not saying any more, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, that we're just doing stupid things. That's so soft. The Criminal Code is amended without discussion. I don't know what's funny! Guys, this is tragic! You've been working on the code for three years, you're destroying everything! Service, office. You've got mixed horses, people, everything! If people do not realize it, at least be careful about it! And you see what you're doing: you write the sub-paragraph text edited and changed the sub-items. It was always called counterfeiting. Who's allowed it? What? How? Who will decide, Adam Ivanovich? Why are you changing the text, clarifying? You specify the President – neither much nor little – you specify. And I'm telling you, you do terrible things. You're actually for GREECE right now showing that you're only passing the law for them, that you're not going to fight it, because it's not going to be able to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u237	We're not going to fight from Greece, you're right. That's the first one. The other one. I've been paying attention to what you're saying right now. Which, in fact, should not be allowed, nor should it be allowed to be edited and so on. I put 353 articles on the vote. Please be supportive. [[14:13:36]] For the 250. Supported. For further information, see article 358. Correction, Ariev, 317th. Don't you insist? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, what we're doing today is not fighting corruption, it's propaganda. First of all, because of the number of national MPs present today, and the number of buttons they have. Because it was not clear why the previous anti-corruption legislation, which was much stronger than this, had been repealed. This was acknowledged by GRECO experts. Today we're actually making a look like the Americans say, folk show, to crush our eyes, to show that we're fighting corruption. This law will not work, and it is approved by corrupt things by pressing foreign buttons. Besides, I wanted to express my indignation with this art MP that when you press the lines to make it beautiful, you put it all on the board. There's a number of reds, a number of yellows. It's not a vote. This is a disgrace to the Supreme Council. I'm taking down all my changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u239	Okay, thank you. Then we vote 358. Please vote. [[14:15:16]] For 235
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u240	Time's up, Adam Ivanovich! Time is up, please look at the board! Time's up, thank you all, women are welcome with the world!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-04-m0.u241	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. I think we'll do it this way, then we'll do it that we've voted almost entirely already, we've got a little bit left. So we'll continue our consideration of the bill at the next plenary session, which will take place on March 15th. But I'd like to ask, and I'm going to refer to the committee, what we've sent for clarification to the third, to walk through the entire law, and I don't think there's going to be anything on the third, because it's practically going to make changes to the law. More specifically, we have passed the law, we are now amending other laws, i.e. the law, you have every reason to prepare for the third reading, taking into account the most important -- declarations, declarations. So, dear colleagues, this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council is declared closed. Let me speak for you in sincere, spring words to our womanhood, and the 100th anniversary of March 8th marks this thing. Let them be happy with MPs like us. Let me remind you that next week we are working on committees, commissions, factions for the next plenary session on Tuesday 15 March at 10 a.m. Good luck.
