ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:45.]] Cards were registered in the 363 national deputies’ session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we must conclude our consideration of the matter. I'm sorry. Honourable People's Deputies, according to the Rules, two factions: the Faction "BUT" – "The Fatherland", the faction "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" – require consultations and statements. Mikola Tomenko will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I would like to prove my opposition to the situation that has arisen with the so-called anti-pulse bill. I would like to remind you that this bill was registered by the government on January 14, 2011. So for almost 9 months, public organizations: Afghans, Chernobyl, war veterans and other social groups -- together with the opposition, they told the government that this bill was a provocation that would lead to unpredictable consequences. Instead, the bill was re-registered and without any change, where no coma and dot were changed to eliminate the social benefits brought into the session hall. Today I would like to see those initiators who provoked here on September 9th and said that we should vote in the first and in general -- and sign here in the hall. For this bill, God forbid, they thought of adopting September 9th as a whole. So today, the way out of this situation is to officially state that the bill is being stopped, that a working group is being set up with the participation of the government. I think that if Prime Minister Azarov brought it in, he should be dealing with it, not hiding behind the backs of the parliamentary majority. To introduce representatives of all public organizations, not just Afghans, the Chernobyls, because there are categories and repressives and categories of children of war, and others, virtually 16 categories, to walk through each item and determine how this bill will be further considered. We must officially say that there will be no words in the session room about this bill until the working group, and particularly the representatives of the public organizations, agree on the further movement of this bill. When I talk about provocation, I speak very responsibly. Because to think that even in the disabled of war, there is an annual recovery. Is there not enough money for this nation to recover annually? They introduced a Jesuit phrase that free sanitation is dependent on the Kabmin order. How much is that going to be? Once every ten years, at 20? Instead, the free annual security policy is in place. I can cite thirty of these positions, so once again, I want to say that the government, if it initiated this, has to take responsibility and not transfer this responsibility to Parliament. Finally, I would like to advise my fighting friends — Afghans, respected colleagues — also bear responsibility for your words. For when Victor Yanukovich was being promoted, I saw your leader in the Afghan organization at the right hand of Yanukovich. And he said Janukovic would give you a happy life. So take care of Parliament, we'll support it, but don't forget to take care of the President and the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, at my request, a meeting is now being held with the participants in the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers. And now, honourable colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to Section XX, Subsection 2, paragraph 22, of the Tax Code of Ukraine is being reviewed. [[Registration number 9162]] Dear colleagues, this is about the request of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that we decide to set a zero rate of duty for imports of gas into Ukraine. Continue. It exists until the third quarter, we need to continue until the end of this year in order not to make gas for consumers. First of all, for our citizens. Dear colleagues, there's an offer to consider this issue in a simplified manner, and I'm putting it to a vote. [[16:07:00]] For 211 Decision taken. Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Yuri Vasilovich Karakai, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Tax and Customs Policy Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill under consideration proposes temporarily to extend until 31 December 2012 the zero VAT rate for natural gas supply operations exclusively for industrial enterprises imported by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. You and I, regardless of party ownership, always speak for the need to develop the industry, we need to create jobs. This step was taken when in the summer of this year the Supreme Council adopted, as an experiment, the zero VAT rate proposed to continue. The experiment, although it only works for one and a half months, has shown its positive economic results, so the bill, if it's adopted, and in our opinion, by independent experts, will allow us to create conditions for the successful operation of our enterprises, for the creation of new jobs, for timely calculations of energy and timely calculations with budgets of all levels. We propose that this bill be adopted today, taking into account its importance, in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u5	Thank you. Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill came from an urgent need to ensure the protection of the domestic producer, as well as the production of competitive production by optimizing the price of natural gas for Ukrainian consumers in the face of a steady increase in the purchase price of imported gas. Today, before October 1, a zero VAT rate on imported gas is in effect. And the proposal to continue this term by the end of the year. The committee supported this proposal. And given that we have plenty of time, and if we're going to move on the full procedure, we're going to move on to the next month, the committee has suggested that we adopt this draft law in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, please sign up for an exchange of information on this bill. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, of course, would not like to talk about the past. We have to look to the future. However, one fragment has to be said. Unfortunately, we have inherited a gas mine, not just under the economic foundations of our State, but today we have a gas mine under Ukraine's economic sovereignty. I'm not afraid of that loud word. The gas mine remained a legacy of the past under Ukraine's national economic sovereignty. Therefore, demining can be started from different angles. Yes, we must, and the dialogue will go to the government level, at the Presidential level. I think that the solution will be found, normal, balanced, taking into account the interests of the two States, both Russia and Ukraine, because the Russian leadership understands that these gas arrangements are today inadequate to the level of relations between the two friendly countries and the brotherly peoples of Ukraine and Russia. On the other hand, it is necessary to try to remove this mine of slow action under Ukraine's economic sovereignty, including by adopting this bill, which provides an opportunity to set a zero VAT rate on gas and to reduce the same price on gas and thereby facilitate the participation of our industry in producing more competitive products and taking into account the upcoming wave of economic crisis, so that our enterprises can stand in this economic storm. We therefore propose to vote in favour of the bill and to support the national producer and the real economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u9	Sergey Pavlenko, faction of the People's Party. Is he giving up the word? Gordon, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u10	I'm asking you to give the floor to my colleague Alla Alexandrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u11	Alla Alexandrovska, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u12	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. You know, my colleague said that VAT is a slow-moving mine that actually undermines our economy. I am very pleased that, at last, there have been healthy heads in the Government who understand that if the gas components in all goods and services are to gain a huge share weight, they must be reduced by abolishing VAT. But it is a concern for the economy and, as my colleague said, a concern for the Ukrainian industry. But why don't we take care of our people, the people of Ukraine? Why do we not want to abolish VAT on drugs and make them competitive with those imported, often counterfeit, unquality people today? Why don't we want VAT removed from housing and utilities? Only today did we say that they were immodestly heavy, that today the concession did not save, and so on, that sort of thing. Why do we not want to see that VAT actually undermines Ukraine's economy as a whole and not just VAT as part of the price of gas? That is why this bill is of course to be supported. But I hope that you and I, my distinguished colleagues, will come to realize that 20 per cent of the allowance for any product, for any service we have in Ukraine is a tremendous burden on the population of poverty, a poor person who cannot pay for housing and utilities, nor can he eat normal food, can he not normally dress, can not eat properly, and can also impose VAT on our population. Therefore, I invite our Government to look at this issue more broadly and to consider whether we need VAT at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u13	Pavel Žebrovsky and then Vladimir Kaplienko. Microphone, please, Paul Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, the VAT cancel, next year 190 billion dollars of the budget is from VAT, it has to be replaced by something then, and it just can't be cancelled. As for this particular issue, we actually have a zero VAT on gas for two categories: first, those who export 50 percent and more of their products, and then they won't wash the circulation costs and wait for them to return the VAT. And the second question is, these are businesses that actually have VAT benefits, because then the cost of such products will be cheaper. But these two categories certainly have an additional incentive for development. And I'm convinced that by supporting this bill, we support citizens. Because if businesses work, knowing that jobs will be there, then people will get a salary, so they will be able to buy products, again, Ukrainian, that will help warm Ukraine's economy. We will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u15	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's Reforms for the Future will support this bill from the following. There's certainly no politics here, and it's just about the economy. We would like to recall that in accordance with the intergovernmental agreements, Ukraine has made a commitment to transit Russian gas, which can only be secured under the conditions of an incorruptible gas transport system. But there's no way in Ukraine's Naftogaza today that we can invest enough money to support the gas system. This is about replacing gas switching units, capital repairs, control systems, and so on. As a result, today's bill is a prerequisite for ensuring the normal operation of naphthagas and without the emergency operation of the gas transport system. But it's about VAT. Today, such a lively discussion, setting a zero VAT rate for an import gas transaction, will not lead to a reduction in the income portion of the government budget. Based on the following, the reduction in the tax credit that is available to consumers of imported gas increases the revenue to the state budget at the expense of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u17	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u18	Which is credited for its own production of the services of these consumers. So there will be no tragedy here. We need to support this bill as a state law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have completed our consideration of the matter. The committee proposes to adopt the bill, taking into account the need for its entry into force as of October 1, on the basis and as a whole. That's why I'm voting on the proposal for a committee on acceptance as a basis and for the whole of the draft Act on the introduction of Chapter XX, Subsection 2, paragraph 22, of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[Registration number 9162]] Please vote. [[16:17:35]] For 272 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Your consideration is proposed in the draft Act amending articles 255, 265-2, 321-1, 322 of the Code of Administrative Offences for the Improvement of Certain Provisions. Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Wonderful Vasil Mikhajlovich, co-rapporteur – head of the committee's subcommittee on legislative security and law enforcement activities, Shemczuk Viktor Viktorovich. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:18:24]] For 219 Decision taken. Vasil Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act of 24 September 2008 amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts. [[on improving the regulation of road safety relations]] This law of the Code on Administrative Violations is supplemented by articles 122-4 on "Leaves of Traffic Accident" and 122-5 on "Disturbation of the system of installation and use of special light or sound signal devices". At the same time, legislators were added to article 255 of the Code on Administrative Offences, which states who has the right to make protocols for certain administrative offences. That is, there was no mechanism for implementing certain provisions of the law that made it impossible to draw up administrative delinquency protocols provided for in articles 122-4, 122-5 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Violations. In addition, taking into account the excessive complexity of traffic on our roads, there is an urgent need for action on traffic regulations and parking. This is about temporarily detaining vehicles and delivering them to special stations, because breaking traffic rules and parking on the streets of the city reduces the capacity of the road network, which affects road safety. Therefore, the bill proposes that a public car inspector be given authority to temporarily suspend transportation for violations of parking and parking regulations. As well as for the management of vehicles without proper documents. In addition, in connection with the introduction of an appeal procedure, the decision to impose an administrative burden is proposed to amend articles 321-1, 322 of the Code of Administrative Violations concerning the order of enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u21	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u22	With regard to the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, I would like to say that the Administration believes that when working on this bill, it is important to take into account that the Supreme Council currently has before it Bill 5220 of 12 October, which was introduced by the People's MP Moskal. But there is still no conclusion on this bill by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, and in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, this bill cannot be considered without a stated conclusion. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u23	Yes. Thank you. Victor Viktorovich, please make the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u24	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement, considered the National MP's Amazing Draft Law on Amendments to Articles 255, 265 with a badge 2, 321 with a badge 1, 322 of the Code on Administrative Violations for the Improvement of Individual Provisions. The bill is indeed designed to improve state regulation in the area of road safety and administrative responsibility for road safety violations. The bill provides for the removal of the existing one at the moment in the legislation of a certain gap. Since the Administrative Code provides for offences such as abandonment of road traffic and disruption of the installation and use of special light or sound signal devices. At the same time, an authorized person has not been established to draft these protocols, and the law has not been able to do so. The proposed bill deals with the issue by amending the relevant articles. In addition, in connection with the imposition of an appeal against the enforcement order, the order of execution of the court’s decision on the use of public and administrative work is also clarified. In general, the adoption of this bill will contribute to the creation of safe conditions for road users, the preservation of life and the health of citizens, and to the improvement of the impact on the discipline of road users. The Committee considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted on the first reading as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to reject it. It should also be noted that a number of provisions of the bill have already been regulated by actual legislation, and therefore, in preparing for the second reading, a number of these rules would be appropriate to be removed from the text. Thank you for your attention. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u25	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign in if there is. People's deputies' names on the board, please. Grivkowski, faction of the People's Party. He's refusing? He's refusing. Bullying Gennady, the reform group for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u26	MP's Reform for the Future, Mikolayevščina, Gennady Zadirko. We discussed this bill for a very long time at a faction meeting. There are really things in this bill that are needed today and in general they would improve legislation, but the situation is that this bill, the honourable colleagues, is actually resuscitating the work of the evacuators. I want to say that we remember how the evacuations worked in Kiev, and how they, these utilities, made divides on these roads, as were the national deputies, looking for their cars in parking lots. And I want to say, dear colleagues, if we vote for this bill, then tomorrow we should start working for these evacuations from Gruszewski Street. And these cars that are standing on this street would have to be exported under this law. And we certainly will not support this bill. To our profound conviction, the proposal to detain vehicles and deliver them to special playgrounds because of violations of the city’s stop and parking rules will be taken very negatively by the public. And for that, I would like to urge the Hall not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Once again, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office considers it appropriate to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject this bill and that its positive points be taken into account when considering Bill No. 5220. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending articles 255, 265-2, 321-1, 322 of the Code of Administrative Offences for the Improvement of Certain Provisions. [[16:26:31]] For 234 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on Fire Safety]] Rapporteurs – Ukrainian National Deputy Konovaluk Valerius Ilichi, co-rapporteur – head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement issues, Vasil Mikolaiovich Gretzai. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Okay. [[16:27:13]] For 197 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The solution to the most acute problems of national fire control in Ukraine has long grown to the point of life itself. Because the high weariness of the basic funds of enterprises poses a constant threat to fires and accidents that may have a negative impact on the environment and national security of Ukraine as a whole. According to the Ministry of Emergency Situations in Ukraine, 62 thousand 200 fires were recorded in Ukraine during 2010. Compared to the previous year, the number of fires increased by 41 percent. Direct material damage increased by 54 percent. In 2010, 2,000,819 people were killed, including 95 children, and 1,537 were injured, including 132 children. The economic losses of fires amounted to 2 billion 300 million dollars. This year's situation is even worse. In just six months, there were 28,000 fires in Ukraine, and a thousand 740 people were killed. Direct fire damage increased by 59 percent in the first half of the year. It should also be noted that some 30 percent of the shortcomings that the authorities of state fire control have proposed to remove over a long period of time do not often disappear for years. The average fine for a lawbreaker in the number of officials is between 34 dollars and 102 dollars, which does not have a material impact on offenders today. The bill proposes: to bring into line with legislation the specific provisions of the Fire Safety Act; to increase administrative responsibility for violating the legal requirements of fire safety for the execution of regulations, regulations and decrees of officials of state fire control authorities; to resolve the issue of the organization of voluntary and local fire protection activities; and to establish a procedure for compensation to persons who have taken part in the extinguishing of fires; and to increase the amount of fine imposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u29	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u30	increase the amount of the fine imposed as a criminal liability for violations of the fire safety requirements established by legislation. Please support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u31	Thank you. The committee will provide information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Svetoslav Mikhailovich Piscun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u32	President-in-Office of the People's Parliament, proposed by your opinion, a bill amending certain Ukrainian legislation, submitted by the National Deputy of Konovaluk, aimed at strengthening administrative responsibility for violating the requirements of fire safety, non-compliance with regulations, regulations and regulations of officials of the State Fire Department and increasing the amount of fine imposed as a criminal responsibility for violating the requirements of fire safety established by law, and amending the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act to comply with the legislation of its individual provisions. [[on Fire Safety]] [[Registration number 7268 from 20.10.2010]] [[Article 270 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code]] The project provides for increased penalties in articles 120, 175, 183, 188 and 8 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences for the Purpose of Preventing and Preventing Offences, which in one way or another affect the exercise of State fire control in the area of agricultural activities in Ukraine on the protection of human life, national wealth and the environment, as well as the expansion of the circle of officials, article 223 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which has the right to deal with administrative offences and to impose administrative tightenings on behalf of the State Fire Watch. The proposed changes lead to irreversibly attracting law enforcement officials to the responsibility of law enforcement officials for the issue of fire safety by State owners and the filling of the income part of the budget, increasing it. According to the general conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u33	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u34	One second.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u35	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u36	He's offered to go back to work. But along with this, the central executive body, Minust Ukraine recommends that it be accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u37	Yes, thank you, Hail Michaelovich. Dear colleagues, shall we discuss it? Yeah? Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Kirilo Kulikov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u38	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to say that this law contradicts the Budget Code in the part that it sets up a list of entrepreneurs to hold local fire parts. This may be a need for time, but the Codex Budget and Tax Code clearly establish a comprehensive list of all taxes they pay. This tax may be considered a local tax, and it can be charged in court, and it will never work, that is, we cannot accept such a standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u39	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party You know, I've read a lot of criticism and suggestions of this very meaningful nature about this bill. But there are two things that I like about it and maybe these two things can be taken as a basis for preparing for the second reading. They are extremely important. First of all, the bill provides for the irreparability of punishment for violations of the rules of fire safety. I don't think there's much to talk about right now, what fire is, and how it's harmful to both agriculture and individuals: physical and legal persons. But obviously one of the main problems is that the offender is a person who actually contributes to the fire hazard, in most cases he is not identified. That's the first one. One second. The irreparability of punishment for deliberate, presumptuous violation of the rules of the Ukraine’s fire - resistant security for today does not increase, increases, and spreads shameful acts that cause fire and human misery, and human misery. And second moment. We will not leave what is suggested by the subject of the legislative initiative to increase, increase the responsibility for breaking the rules of fire safety with those of today’s degrees, with those pseudo penalties that exist today. There is no motivation, no incentive to adhere to current legislation. So I think, based on these positives of this bill, you could give it green light for further work. Thank you for your attention. And if there's a replica, then Svetoslav Mikhailovich made a mistake and said, "Science-based management of the Supreme Council." I think it would be nice if it were. It's a joke. It's a science research department.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u41	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u42	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. The esteemed presiding officer, the honourable colleagues, well, apparently the fact that order in this matter is to be stated does not call anyone into question. But the question is different. We have fiscal authorities today that control, including fire safety, other security there, too many of them. And if this bill were aimed at providing fire technology that is not available, if this bill was aimed at actually increasing the number of other parts of the fires that are simply not enough in rural areas, then it could be supported. It is directed simply to administrative pressure and to the fact that even more fiscal bodies are said to be above the heads of entrepreneurs, heads of institutions, and to be the same castoffs. Although, frankly, after the underprivileged pension reform that was adopted, we will soon look for the fires, because they also wrote their big release reports in their mass. And obviously, what happened today under the Supreme Council on Afghans, the Chernobyls, is going to be the next, and the fires that they say they're going to put on fire to such a state that they can't breathe. Thank you for your attention. This law cannot be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u43	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u44	Thank you. You know, in this room, we've all supported our President Fedorovich Yanukovic's initiative to go to Europe. I don't know the countries of Europe where there is a janitor. There are countries with free, easy insurance and insurance systems. And if you don't do fire safety on your company, fire safety systems, you just won't be in danger of your building, you won't be able to get it into effect, and so on and so forth. What we're talking about is let's check harder. Checking in the matrimonial system that's in operation now is a redoing of hands. And speaking of which, from the rostrum, something's going to be added to the budget. It won't add anything, the system isn't. Speaking of deliberately burning, here I fully agree when the fields are set on fire, and because of them all the logging and the forest land are burned, yes, there should be irreversible responsibility for arson. That's the only thing I agree with, and what needs to be deregulation, not regulation, is to support our European vector, not any other one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis, and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has given a negative opinion on the bill. In accordance with the Rules, honourable colleagues, I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on Fire Safety]] [[Registration number 7268]] [[16:39:29]] For-198 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[16:39:55]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing before the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the determination of custody periods at the stage of criminal proceedings]] [[Registration number 8229]] Reporter: Volodymyr Stretovic. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[16:40:37]] For 199 How are you going to report from the committee or what? Please, Yuri Prokopchuk of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u46	I'll do my best. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! A committee on law enforcement was discussed by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Volodymyr Stretovic, on the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the determination of custody periods at the stage of criminal proceedings]] The purpose of the bill is to regulate the procedures and terms of custody of the defendant during the criminal proceedings. The bill proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which is intended to shorten the terms of the previous case, and provides that a criminal case involving the accused, which is selected as a precautionary measure in the form of a detention, should be assigned to a preliminary review no later than five days. Other changes are that the period of custody from the day the criminal case is brought to trial and the time of the verdict cannot last more than six months, except when the court continues to hold such custody for a maximum of three months and only in cases of serious and particularly serious crimes. The project provides for the right to sue the court's approval or decision to extend the period of detention in custody to the Court of Appeal. The project also contains Transitional Provisions, which are that criminal cases that have been brought before the court before the law and have not been assigned to a preliminary examination should be assigned to such proceedings no later than five days from the date of entry into force of the law. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus has a point of view and believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to go back to work. The committee, in turn, believes that the legislative initiative aimed at improving the criminal justice system of Ukraine, and the adoption of the bill will improve the state of affairs in the area of preventive action such as taking into custody. In view of this, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading plenary session to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u47	Thank you, too, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Viacheslav Kirilenko. Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u48	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! In fact, this bill is an attempt in some way that the author proposes to address the problem that we now have, which is extremely violent. It's about the fact that in fact the terms and purposes of the cases that are currently in existence in the KPC, and the terms of the case are extremely long, they allow the court in fact without a clear deadline, first, to assign cases, to deal with them and to keep a person in custody. There is a certain attempt to settle this process so that the court can't do it on its own, and a person could be in custody for no more than six months. And only with regard to serious and particularly serious crimes can the court decide for an additional three months. But here's the most important thing that needs our exact support in this room. She foresees that if the court decides to change the precautionary action of the defendant to stand guard, the ruling of the KPC is final and is not to be challenged. What is generally contrary to the constitutional principle of judiciality and deprives a person of being subject to a duly unbiased court by appeal. In view of these circumstances, we have sad cases where a person actually falls within the scope of this KPC sanction and cannot appeal to the wrong decisions of the courts. More than once, the European Court of Human Rights has pointed out to Ukraine that such a KPC norm is absurd, contrary to Ukraine’s obligations, including following the ratification of the Council of Europe’s Criminal Convention. In view of these circumstances, this part of the matter urgently needs to be settled. And I think we need to adopt this bill as a basis immediately. As for procedural periods, if there are even appropriate comments or suggestions, we can easily correct them to the second reading. Because even the need for implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, there are no more willing to participate in the discussion of the bill? Who? Ivan Kirilenko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u50	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, please pass the word to Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u51	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u52	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I am addressing representatives of all political factions because of the political issue. Will we have the Constitution or not? Will there be an appeal in court or not? Are we going to have two, three years, people when the trial is being held, or will the court go on vacation, and people are being held in custody? Will cases be allowed, as has been the case in the Pecher Court, when the defendant dies, because the court has failed to take certain measures, has not released and has not begun to treat. This is why Stretovic's bill is aimed at making matters where there is a precautionary action in the form of a take-up under watch quicker to be considered. [[This article is article 241.]] He says: “Five days are to be considered. The bill stipulates that when he is taken into custody, he is entitled to an appeal. It is I who fully agree with what Ruslan Knazevitch said. That is why this bill should be adopted in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u53	Are you all Yuri Anatolyovich? Thank you. Dear colleagues! The proposal was, if accepted as a basis, entrusted with preparing it for the second reading under the reduced procedure, right, Yuri Anatoliyovich? Let's put to the vote first the proposal for acceptance on the basis of this project as proposed by the committee. At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the bill needs to be finalized. The proposal for a committee to adopt is therefore put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the determination of custody periods at the stage of criminal proceedings]] [[Registration number 8229]] Please vote. [[16:48:07]] For-93 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 4, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 48, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 23, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 16, People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 2. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[16:48:43]] For-81 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we are now to consider a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on natural gas and electricity calculations. At the same time, the author of the bill, Mikolia Romanyuka, asked to postpone consideration of the bill because of the need to reconcile the text and position of the bill with the parliamentary factions, groups and Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in connection with the beginning of the activities of the governing body in the housing and utility sphere. Is there no objection to this bill being postponed? You won't? Yes. Then I'm voting on a motion to postpone the consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 8134]] Please vote. [[16:50:04]] For the 250. Decision taken. The bill is deferred. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Nationality Act. [[on the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens abroad]] [[Registration number 4818]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Mikola Dmitrovitch Katerinczuk, co-rapporteur – head of the Human Rights Committee subcommittee, national minorities of international relations Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkevich. A motion from the Committee to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. [[16:50:52]] For 209 Decision taken. Please, Mikolo Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I wanted to address you on behalf of our labour migrants: Spain, Portugal, Italy, and Russia. They absolutely demand that you and I protect them abroad. Because article 25 of the Constitution says that Ukraine guarantees the care and protection of its citizens who are outside it. Unfortunately, you know the situation where migrant workers are citizens of Ukraine without the proper support of our consular institutions. Not because these consular institutions are unable to provide this at a professional level, but because there are no consular institutions, first of all, such functions. And second of all, there's no money under these functions. Therefore, a great request to you, not by a reduced procedure, but by the procedure of humanity, to support our citizens who have not found a job in Ukraine, and such millions, let us help them, at least, with consular services that will allow them in criminal matters, civil matters to protect their right to Ukrainian citizens, to protect Ukraine. So I think that there will be many patriots and fewer will want to go abroad because they will know that Ukraine is protecting them. My bill is very brief, I propose that 25 articles of this law be supplemented by one paragraph: "Diplomatic representations and consular institutions of Ukraine protect the rights of citizens abroad, assist in representing their interests in the jurisdictional bodies, including in the courts in criminal and civil matters." The adoption of this bill will enable Ukrainian citizens to count on the State for assistance, regardless of their status in the country of residence. I emphasize that the Ukrainian Consulate only helps those citizens who are abroad legally. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u55	Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic will report the decision of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, I will also quote from the 25th article of the Constitution as quoted by Mr. Catherinechuk: "Ukraine guarantees the care and protection of its citizens who are outside of it.".. As a result, the author of the bill amends the article, not the Constitution, but the article 25 of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act. In particular, he said, he was obliged to oblige diplomatic representations and consular institutions to assist Ukrainian citizens in presenting their interests to jurisdictional bodies, including in criminal and civil cases. Our fellow countrymen are known to have great difficulties in protecting their rights from time to time. I'm getting out of the position that you're not gonna spoil the cash with oil, as our Russian friends say. However, on our committee it was said that in discussing this issue, which the author proposed was not the subject of regulation of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act, but rather the Law on Diplomatic Service. Moreover, certain provisions of the bill already exist in existing legislation, particularly in the Ukrainian Law, which I have named in the Ukrainian Consular Statute and in a series of international legal instruments. They already stipulate that diplomatic representations should carry out measures and provide, in relation to Ukrainian citizens, for compliance with the legislation of the State of residence. As well as the bilateral treaties concluded by Ukraine with that State and international treaties, with Ukraine and the State of residence. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council notes that this bill cannot be supported as one that contains an initiative already regulated by Ukrainian legislation. Our committee, following this recommendation, also decided to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u57	Thank you, Yuri Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u58	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Clearly, there are many legal and other reasons not to adopt this bill. And in general, we need to talk about a special body that should be created to protect the rights, the protection of rights, the constitutional rights of our citizens abroad. Clearly, there is no such thing as the priorities of today’s current government. And I sounded an initiative that was launched by groups and public organizations that try to support each other every day. Why can citizens find and organize at their expense and not be helped by the state? I'm asking you, national deputies, to stand in a state position and protect our citizens abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u59	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. This is the question raised by our colleague Catherinechuk, which deserves our discussion today. And that's actually the question in Ukraine. No country in the European Union has the same problem as Ukraine. And that's the part where most of our citizens are in labor emigration. And often there are such circumstances that they are not always able to defend their rights. That's one problem. I'm going to tell you that no country in the world is certainly referring to its citizens who are forced to be abroad, in a way like our own diplomatic and consular services of our state. I want to give you an example. Please take the passport of any citizen of the United States of America, Israel or Germany, and so on, if something happens to their citizen, don't let God happen, or with their investments, don't let God, something happens, there will be a prime minister, an ambassador, as a minimum, and that other representative of diplomatic services. Because they care for their citizens, they are concerned about their health, their rights, and their interests. That's why they're strong and they're the first. And we have this kind of, you know, secondary problem that the state doesn't pay attention to. And one more point is that citizens who often have to pay attention to this question, they are now the major investors, because the tens of billions of dollars they make, working in factories, factories, and businesses of other countries, they send to their families, and that's how they invest in the economy of Ukraine. So if they are the number one investors, why don't we pay attention and really not give more authority? The reference to what is not provided for in the convention or is not provided for in the Consular Statute is certainly not provided for, but in no country does it provide that 5 million migrant workers are actually abroad. This is not the case in any country either. So we need to approach such mass-based statistics that have a negative impact on our country, on the other hand, on the important part of these citizens, and certainly deserve that attention. I certainly am.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u61	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u62	I understand, of course, that this is not a very precise formulation of making changes to existing legislation, what is settled, but this issue, on the other hand, needs to be put in place and discussed more broadly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u63	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies, on this bill. Well, once again, we have to mention this last page of the old Russian Literary newspaper, where there was such a funny feature of "Ladies' Conduct, consisting of one of the names." The name is beautiful and has everything that was meant to be laid down, and the law is still in operation. Your thoughts are correct and appropriate, only the right ones are inappropriate and the right ones are wrong. It's absolutely not a matter of setting standards here that are clearly regulated, maybe not being implemented, and here, it's a very serious problem. In another law, the functions of diplomatic service should be reflected in a single law and nowhere else, only in the law on diplomatic service. And we are obliged to make sure that these standards are met. And for all those who are hurting for our migrants, once again, I want to repeat that this room has already received two petitions from Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin and from your humble servant about the fact that it has not yet been ratified a few years ago by the Social Convention of Ukraine with Portugal. I ask you, instead of introducing laws that duplicate the existing standards, let's all put 450 MPs together, maybe the Ministry of Finance will wake someone up. This is something that can be helped. And to rewrite from one law into another law a norm, by creating too much confusion, I think it's completely unnecessary. So we need to protect our migrants, but not in this way. This bill doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u65	Yes, thank you. I'm asking the secretariat. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u66	There's no motive, unfortunately. I ask the secretariat once again to prepare an appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers for this agreement, so that it can come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. My dear colleagues, despite the fact that the Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration have given negative opinions, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Nationality Act. [[on the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens abroad]] [[Registration number 4818]] Please vote. [[17:01:47]] For-96 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the draft law to the subject of the legislative initiative for its completion. () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:02:11]] For-80 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you a draft law amending some of the legislation on the provision of criminal justice. Rapporteur, Ukrainian National Deputy, Bondik Valerij Anatoliyyovich, co-rapporteur, Deputy Head of the Justice Committee, Helen Yuriyovna Šustik. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:02:57]] For 213 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, the honourable presidency, the legislation that needs to be changed, and this is a consensus in this room, is the Criminal Procedure Code. He was really accepted in Soviet times back in 1961. Thus, this article, 75, on the provision of expert justice, says that some novels are being introduced. First of all, any evidence is not absolute in court, and sometimes the authorities of inquiry, the bodies of judicial investigation and even judicial investigation, and the judge himself in the trial cannot decide the issue, nor in the interests of the defendant, i.e. to pass an acquittal, nor to pass an acquittal, i.e. in favour of the State. And this is how the judge speaks out in favour of providing the expert body. Thus, the addition I have proposed to article 75 introduces such novels as: what is a commissional expertise when there are contradictions between the conclusions of a certain specialist, such as the science department of an academic institution; and specialized expertise, which is provided by a specialized expert institute. Thus, in the new edition of the Criminal Procedure Code, there are also no such issues that we resolve. By the way, there's a proposal on the committee to adopt this bill in the first reading, maybe then someone will have conclusions, even in the Ministry of Justice, positive conclusions. Because we cannot even for violating the rights and freedoms of a citizen who is involved as a defendant in court, evidence and even lack of expertise cannot violate his right to just justice. So I'm asking you to support this bill even in the first reading, because it actually sets up several novels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u68	Thank you, too. I'm inviting you. To the report of the deputy chairman of the Justice Committee, Helen Yuriovna Shustik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u69	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Justice discussed at its meeting a draft law amending certain legislative acts concerning the provision of criminal justice. The bill proposes a new edition of Article 75 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which defines the different types of expertise: primary, additional, repeated, commission, complex, cases of implementation and provides that those who meet the requirements of the Judicial Expertise Act are involved as experts. In addition, it is suggested that the evidence obtained in the criminal case be related to the expert’s testimony obtained during his interrogation. The new article 75-1 of the CPC defines the legal status and order of giving evidence by an expert, making changes to the Criminal Code, which provides for the responsibility of the expert for giving presumptively false evidence. The project significantly expands the range of the expert’s rights and responsibilities, establishing a clear regulation of the activities of the head of the expert body regarding the organization of the conduct and monitoring of the time frames and the quality of the expertise. The Committee believes that the provisions of the bill are aimed at improving the criminal and procedural provisions of Ukraine's legislation and bringing them into line with the current requirements of expert justice. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the draft law be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. The committee also recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u70	Yes, thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for your position on this bill. Yes, please, Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u71	Thank you. I'm not a lawyer, but the conclusions we've heard today are extremely important to Ukrainian citizens. And therefore, in respect of his colleague Valery Anatolyovich Bondick, who, in fact, is a lawyer-class, as Carmazin said, he is a classic, so in these matters, I call on all the national MPs today to support. And this law will indeed benefit Ukraine and the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u72	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u73	The Legislature Committee also supported the bill on the basis of law enforcement, and all the issues that arise can also be addressed in the second reading. Although the urgency is in all criminal matters, I do not attach myself to any of them, indeed, I do. The committee is therefore also asking for the support of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u74	Dear colleagues! The position of the committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration coincide, and they recommend adopting this bill as a basis. Please, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u75	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to thank my colleague Bondik that in principle the normal bill he is proposing, although there are questions about changes to the Criminal Code, although there are also issues that have been raised by the Scientific and Experimental Authority under the 197th KPC, so that the possibilities of the defendant or the defendant are not impaired as well. [[between 384 and 385]] And with the opportunity, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to say how important it is to read projects, because the previous project, which lasted 2.5 years, he predicted that diplomats should participate and have the right to deal with criminal and civil matters. There is no record of this in the law on diplomatic service. And that's what we need to know. That's why we made a fool of ourselves when we rejected that bill. It was necessary to make changes there and there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate to adopt a draft law amending certain legislative acts on the provision of criminal justice. [[Registration number 8084]] Please vote. [[17:10:28]] For 306 Decision taken. Honorable National MPs. Yes, it's thanks to your last speech. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act is being announced for consideration. [[The organization of a serious translation in state television organizations]] Rapporteur - Ukrainian National Deputy Ukolov Viktor Aleksandrovich, co-rapporteur - head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Olena Konstantinovna Kondratjuk. I would like to vote on your motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:11:17]] For 214 Decision taken. Please, Victor Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, you have a proposal for a draft of the Television and Radio Act. [[on the organization of a surrogate translation in state telecommunications]] According to statistics, people with total or partial loss of hearing make up between 4 and 10 percent of Europe’s population. We found no statistics on the number of deaf people in Ukraine. The violent language in Ukraine has existed for about two centuries, that is, since the first centers and communities of the deaf have emerged. At the same time, in Ukraine, some 1 000 300 TV channels -- and none of them have a license to adapt programs for the deaf. The deaf in Ukraine are completely deaf. The legislation of the vast majority of European countries protects the rights of deaf and weak citizens according to the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe developed recommendations 1598 on the protection of deaf sign languages in the countries of the Council of Europe. For example, all television channels in France speak both sign language and information. In Ukraine to this day, the problem has not been settled at the legislative level and has been solved in part by some normative acts. At the same time, along with our bill, the Cabinet of Ministers prepared its bill, especially after the victory of the court, Andrew Pishny, took up the matter in the Cabinet of Ministers, and that was very good. Unfortunately, this bill was not in the order of the day of this session. As far as I know, the Kabminu Bill is not in conflict with what we have proposed, but it expands the law area from the TV channels of state ownership to the TV channels of all forms of property in order not to force deaf and weak citizens to wait for the next session in the event of a rejection of our bill, we propose, we are the copyright team, most of the compromise, to support our bill in the first reading, and before the second reading, we will introduce the law by extending the law to all television channels, regardless of the form of ownership. And that's how we balance it with.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u78	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u79	I would like to say that the adoption of this bill will allow unheard citizens of Ukraine not only to watch information programmes on state television channels but also to see statements by the President, Prime Minister of Ukraine. So I urge you, this is a non-political bill to support the entire hall of our weak citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u80	Thank you, too. Helen Constantinena, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. I mean Condratuk Olena Constantinen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u81	It's me. Thank you. The Honourable Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information at its meeting on 6 April 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Television and Broadcasting, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Stecz, Abdullin and Ukolovi, and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of this bill as a basis. [[The organization of a serious translation in state television organizations]] [[Registration number 8214]] The committee agrees with the authors that the adoption of the bill will allow more full access to information by people with hearing disabilities, including through the introduction of mandatory broadcasters on state television organizations. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the draft law be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. The State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine also supports the proposals proposed by the bill. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue or should we vote? If you insist, please sign in. Well, they're willing to speak. You should. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Yuri Stac, "BUT is the Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u83	It would be nice if you called it the right faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u84	Yes, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u85	Thank you. Good afternoon, colleagues. What I'm saying is that at the committee meeting, we were looking at a bill that was passed by Kabmin before, and I have to say that there were enough observations, because there were, in fact, rules that, well, just made this bill impossible, the operation of this bill. Because, for example, the bill that Kabmin proposed was the norm that applied to the surrogate translation of all the radio companies. [[Attention!]] I mean, we understand that there was a condition in this bill that radio companies would have to translate. That's the first one. And secondly, there are enough people here, including the friendly factions "BOUT" – "Fatherland", a party of regions and communists that have connections to TV channels. Well, it would be interesting to hear them say that, for example, on the football channel, we would have seen a half-screen of surrogate translation, and then probably not all the players at the Shaktar football club could have seen Dario Serna vote in the championship league. I mean, once again, the bill was worth supporting in the first reading, and we're ready to bring in all the amendments that Kabmin is proposing. The bill is not political, so I would ask you to treat it with understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u86	Mikhailo Chechetov, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u87	Please pass the word to Elena Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u88	Olena Bondarenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I would like to express the general opinion of the Committee, as already mentioned by Elena Kondratjuk. Indeed, we did not have a distinction under this bill. We recommend that it be supported on first reading, as it does require further work. And I would also like to say that the Party of the Regions, the faction of the Party of the Regions, will support this bill on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u91	Vladimir Yavorowski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Dear colleagues, the Yulia Tymoshenko Block will, of course, vote in favour of this bill. He's humanistic at his core. And I remember, when the venue was this entrepreneurial, there was one deci out of the high hall. And he told a story like that. He says Janukovic came to us, he's a simple guy, he just came on the bus, he went out, he talks to us and he says, "I'll hear everyone. I will hear each and every one of you." Turns out he's deaf. Because of this, this bill really needs to be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u92	Vitali Kurilo, please. And I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to stick with the right ethical men.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, the MP's Reforms for the Future, Vitaly Kurilo. We support this bill. Because this category of our fellow citizens is virtually devoid of access to normal information today. This is not exactly in line with our already adopted laws and standards and rules adopted by the relevant conventions of the United Nations. In fact, in many countries, especially in France, Finland, there are entire channels in the United Kingdom that work for such a category of people. Or all channels set aside a portion of their airtime on separate days to make a broadcast for them. So I don't think it's that difficult for our TV channels to do at least some information programs for these people. So once again, I appeal to everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[on the organization of surdotranslation in state broadcasters]] [[Registration number 7214]] Please vote. [[17:20:38]] For 311 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies are submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending article 123 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on the identification of the parents of the child born as a result of the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies]] [[Registration number 8212]] We have here the following draft Act amending some legislation in Ukraine. [[concerning the restriction of the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies]] Maybe that's how we'd do it, dear colleagues. You don't have to? Then let's look at the first and then the second. There is a suggestion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:21:43]] For 202 Decision taken. Since it's from the committee and the author, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u95	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine’s current legislation does not provide for registration of same - sex marriages in Ukraine. According to article 21 of the Ukrainian Family Code, marriage is a family union of women and men registered with civil registration agencies. Any other definition of marriage in Ukrainian legislation is missing. At the same time, Ukrainian legislation does not contain restrictions on such a marriage to have a child born to a Ukrainian surrogate mother. The bill proposes to clearly define the concept of "marriage" for those who can benefit from the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies, namely, male and female. This will make it impossible for Ukrainian surrogate mothers to use foreign citizens who are married together. The Committee on Budget Affairs believes that the implementation of the bill will not require additional expenditure from the State budget. The Legal Policy Committee supports the legislative proposal because it aims at strengthening the protection of the rights of a child born as a result of the application of auxiliary reproductive technologies and believes that the draft law is in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill is based on the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 123 of the Ukrainian Family Code as a basis and as a whole. [[on the identification of the parents of the child born as a result of the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies]] [[Registration number 8212]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? It's about complementing the words "man and woman," you realize it's going to be an unnatural process. It is possible that if there is no objection, we can accept it in general. No objections? Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Act amending article 123 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on the identification of the parents of the child born as a result of the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies]] [[Registration number 8212]] Please vote. [[17:24:18]] For 277 The law is passed. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts is being considered. [[concerning restrictions on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies]] [[Registration number 8282]] The reporter is Katerina Lukyanova. It is also suggested that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:24:54]] For 215 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u97	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, is proposing to amend Ukraine’s Family Code and the basics of Ukraine’s health legislation to identify a category of persons for whom restrictions are imposed on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies. I won't delay your time, the only thing I can say is that whoever reads the bill understands that he needs work. After a bill was registered in the Supreme Council, there was a meeting with the reproductive doctors who were involved in these issues, we held a round table together on the basis of the newspaper Komsomolska Pravda and reached a joint text of a bill that I can't introduce to you yet, as this text of the bill has now been registered. So, as the drafter of the bill, I ask that this bill be sent back for re-reading. I can sell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u98	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u99	. The main scientific and expert office concluded that, as a result of the first reading of the bill, it was appropriate to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work, the budget would have no impact on the expenditure of the budget, and the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism offered to adopt the first reading as a basis. But as an author, I would like to take it back to me for my first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u100	Dear colleagues! Obviously, there is no objection. But we have to figure out the terminology here, Catherine Eugene. If we're going to re-read it, that means we're going to send it to the committee, but the committee won't do anything until the Supreme Council takes it as a basis. So we can make a decision to get the subject back on the right of legislative initiative to work, so if you want to work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u101	That's not how the committee's gonna do it, you know? The committee won't bring us a draft draft, it won't bring us one. Then we need to take it as a foundation and then work on it. If so, let's put it to a vote -- take it as a basis. And that's when you're working on it with practice doctors. Dear colleagues! Let me put it this way, I'm going to put adoption as a basis, if not, then the second would be the proposal to direct the subject to the right of the legislative initiative for pre-processing. The first proposal for adoption is based on a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts as a basis. [[Registration number 8282]] [[concerning restrictions on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies]] Please vote. [[17:27:58]] For-39 The decision is not taken. I now put to the vote the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative of the bill for further consideration. Please vote. [[17:28:22]] For 274 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, to your knowledge, in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a meeting was concluded with representatives of the organizations who were taking care of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and tried to use the help of deputies to take it by storm. An agreed decision has been made to create a working group, agree on a number of positions, and then return to the subject. So I think there's good reason to believe that this incident is over. And I call on the people's deputies to act tolerantly, understanding that people can be brought to the Supreme Council and then to think about how to get them out of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act. [[concerning the order of approval]] [[Registration number 8624]] The committee and the drafter of the bill propose to consider it as a summary procedure. Please vote. [[17:29:54]] For 217 Decision taken. Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Jaroslav Mikhajlovich Suhi, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan. So you're a reporter and a co-rapporteur. Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that by April 2005, the following practice was in place when the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the minimum of living. It was considered by law before the beginning of the review of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for the year in question. So Bill 8624 proposes that this rule be renewed. That is to say, at the legislative level, to establish the real content of the subsistence minimum, then to move to the budgetary opportunities that the state has, because the budget that is called on to protect the rights and social guarantees should give the least protected to the population. And the second. It is proposed to re-edit part five of article 1 of the Act on Living Minimum on an increase in the subsistence minimum set for persons subject to compulsory State social insurance under legislation. What's this all about? A person who is assigned a minimum pension, a minimum wage. We believe that we should go beyond the difference in income tax on a natural person, the so-called income tax. Because otherwise, it turns out that we're underestimating this standard. If the standard is 764, it should not be 764, but plus the income tax of the natural person, then it would be fair. In this way, the authors and the Committee on Social Policy and Labour believe that this will allow for the formation of social expenditure in draft budgets of all levels, not just the Supreme Council, on the basis of an approved minimum of living as a basic social standard. In addition, we will provide an overview of the size of the subsistence minimum and increase the living minimum for working persons and the subsistence minimum per person, as its calculation will take into account the income tax rates of natural persons. The committee supports this bill. The main scientific expert in management has a point, the government is against it. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a discussion. Yes, Oleg Belarus, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u104	Give it to Yavorovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u105	Yeah, okay, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u106	Honorable voters, honourable colleagues, national MPs, are rarely given such a happy opportunity to speak good words to our political opponents. But that is really an opportunity. And I have to say that we've finally returned to some very fair standard that once existed, but then we've washed it so quietly, washed it, washed it, washed it, and put it out by hand, which means that it's the sum of the living minimum. We're finally back to what's going to be done by law, and that's very good. I'm still happy to say these words to the authorities and most of them, because in the background of their free reforms, which each one leads to the deterioration of life every time, it's the same tax code, it's the same code, it's still downgrading the army, and we're growing, instead of building up the militia, the police, and the rest, and the rest, when we have a completely non-reliable army, and today we're talking about it from this rostrum, when all the quasi-reforms that the government is taking and doing it so cruelly, so free of charge. So it's... it's... Because of this bill, of course, it's a tremendous success, and I want to welcome you to it. And the Yulia Tymoshenko Block will, of course, be happy to vote for him. But think about other things.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u107	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u108	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Reforms for the Future Group has considered this bill and considers it to be quite positive, even though the expert conclusions of our colleagues, particularly the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, are negative. I would like to remind you that really in 2008 this normal human standard was lost on the basis of the State Budget Act of Ukraine. And what we want to do today as of January 1, 2012 is to re-establish it, it's a very positive phenomenon. I would also like to remind you that this bill is in principle in line with the Constitutional Court Decision of 22.05.2008, which adopted the Decision on the Unconstitutional Decision 2008 of the State Budget Act, which removed Ukrainians from such a normal legislative initiative. We also support the theory that the practice of prior consideration and approval of the minimum of living in the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be renewed immediately before the adoption or issuance of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for the following year. [[First, Second, or Acquaintance]] So the MP's Reform for the Future will support this law in the first reading, in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u109	Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, in fact, the key task of the Supreme Council is to ensure that there is no manual management. Even if there is a holy government, there is a desire to guide everyone by hand. And it is very important that the colleagues who made this government today initiate this proposal. Because we need to act by law. I am convinced that the adoption of this bill will improve the situation of security, social security, citizens of Ukraine and little more, it will be legalized and will take legal, completed forms. This is very important in connection with the fact that the decision of the Constitutional Court will certainly be carried out. I think the only thing you guys said is "A" say "B." Let's call off that law that you adopted in the first reading, that you were taking care of and expressing against today, the people you chose, including you, for this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u111	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, you know, it's nice to hear from the opponents. When I was in Yalta, I said, you include Freedom of Speech on Monday, and compliments come from our opponents, you switch to Friday, it goes on to one Freedom of Words, then to the third Freedom of Words, it goes on. Well, that, I stress, we have a free democratic country. And the fact that most of the bills initiated today by both the Government and the People's Deputies from the Party of the Regions have found support in more than 300 votes, says that we are on the right track, and that a constructive majority, a healthy majority, who will support the President's programme with which he won the elections, is already in the room, is very good. So thank you for supporting our bill, you guys, you're on the right track, you're on the right track.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office holds the same position that the bill deserves to be accepted for further parliamentary work. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act. [[concerning the order of approval]] [[Registration number 8624]] Please vote. [[17:38:55]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Please show the factions how they voted. Region Party 11, "BUT – Fatherland" – 38, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 9, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, "The People's Party – 0, non-factional – 5. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. [[17:39:36]] For 294 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies are being submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory State Social Insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and funeral expenses". [[on the provision of financial security to insured persons in enterprises against which bankruptcy proceedings have been committed]] [[Registration number 8775]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:40:22]] For 212 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, national MPs, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! As in summer 2011, the summer of 2010 was extremely difficult for insured persons to recover themselves and their family members. 2011 is accompanied by constant complaints and complaints by our people, our voters, who are addressing us in the same way as we are, for reasons of inability to get a sanatorium treatment after a disease they've been transmitted, and what they're legally entitled to is after heart attacks, strokes, and so on. What happened? Today, the Social Insurance Fund, after a temporary loss of employment, has debts of over 700 million dollars. An error was made in 2008 when it was allowed to pay the salary without paying the contributions to the Social Security Fund. An error was made later, for example, when an enterprise was declared bankrupt, whether there was no accounting for any industrial enterprise from the sold assets to the Social Security Fund. We were looking for a way out, and we were given committee hearings. On June 22, 2011, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Work held a hearing: “An analysis of the application of the rules of the Law on Collection and the calculation of the only contribution to the general public social insurance obligation”. Therefore, we suggest that you consider one, and we have been encouraged to introduce a number of bills to improve this accounting practice and to collect a single contribution to the general government social insurance. We're proposing a bill that allows insured people to provide material security to businesses that are being disrupted in bankruptcy cases. This bill proposes to make changes to article 21 of the Ukrainian Act on mandatory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial and to remove the fund's refund from the employer's account to the working authorities of the Fund's department in the event of a violation of the bankruptcy case and the termination of the financing of such employer-employee insurance, and we propose to prohibit the imposition of an arrest on a separate account opened for insurance purposes. Dear colleagues, the adoption of this bill will give us an opportunity to increase, improve the financing of children's sports schools, pay in time. To pay for hospital bills and to maintain a system of healing for our citizens in need. The committee's offering to support it. It's a major science-expert facility. denies that the government is against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vizevski, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u116	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". In fact, we've been looking at this bill on the profile committee. Both trade unions and employers were involved. And that was all unanimous, including the opposition factions and the pervasive factions, because we're talking about how one of the foundations should live, on which the lives of many ordinary citizens depend. Which one? It depends most on it. You can beat each other in Parliament, divide and divide and distribute the State Budget in your pockets, but here's our money, please don't touch it. Allow people what they have earned and for what they have paid, to pay them back in the event of their arrival. There will be appropriate social requirements. And on the part of the citizens, these requirements should be fully returned to him. Therefore, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" will vote unanimously in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u117	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u118	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! It is very pleased that we will conclude today's meeting on a major note when the bill initiated by the Party of the Regions is supported by an absolute majority and the right part of the room. Because one thing unites us, we are ideologically different: some want to live at one time, some want to live at another time, some want to speak at the same time, some want to speak at the same time, some want to live at the same time, and some want to live at the same time, but all of us want the good of our people, the best of our lives, the best of our lives. And when such bills are passed, which relate to raising the standard of living of people, welfare, protection of citizens, whether from the left side of the room or from the right, this honors the authors, because they not only do good for people, but they consolidate the hall and target parliament for constructive work. And I would like to thank the Committee on Social Policy, Jaroslav Suhogo, for having tabled this bill, I would like to thank the right-hand side of the room and the previous speakers for their objectively rejecting all policies. And I think we're going to end the session now with 300 votes, and we're going to show that there are issues that can unite. Not tents in Krestatika – they separate, not party flags, but people's well-being, people's well-being, economic power, the sovereignty of the real country, which is based on economic power. I therefore propose to support this bill. And even though there were comments from the government and so forth, I think the Government will understand. Apparently, there wasn't much to see. We are on the right track, and the right and left parts of the room are fully supported with regard to the adoption of the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m1.u119	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, and the Committee, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, believe that the bill can and should be adopted as a basis. That's why I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on mandatory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and funeral expenses. [[on the provision of financial security to insured persons in enterprises against which bankruptcy proceedings have been committed]] Registration number 8775. Please vote. [[17:47:55]] For 296 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we should now consider the draft Law on State Lottery in Ukraine. At the same time, there is a letter from the committee and a request from the author of the draft law: postpone consideration of the bill. That is, from the author of Yuri Poluniev and the committee at the signing of the committee of Vitaly Homutinnik. We're putting it in the long run, aren't we? Ladies and gentlemen, all the questions that have been identified for consideration have thus been considered. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work from 10:00 a.m. to Wednesday September 21st. Thank you.
