ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:12]] There were 376 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of our colleague of Natalia Juryivna Royal. Let us welcome her and wish her success in the parliamentary work, as well as in the big community work with entrepreneurs small, medium and small. Dear National Deputies! I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on May 17th. Thirty-five issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 2 laws and 1 decree were passed, 10 bills were adopted on the basis of which 4 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, 10 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes away from speaking with statements, reports, appeals, information, and so forth. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. People's MP Mankowski, faction of the Party of the Regions. Who? Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions, please. Terrence will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, citizens of our Ukraine! There is an objective need to draw the attention of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, local authorities, and self - government to the negative trends in rural areas. After beginning land reform and agricultural reform in the 1990s, the ideologies of these reforms, unfortunately, did not take into account the characteristics of the Ukrainian village, the multi-year system of production relations that formed and gave a fairly high level of agricultural production at the same time, determining jobs, people's employment, infrastructure development, roads, schools, kindergartens, clubs, libraries, they finally didn't listen to the idea of people whose fate was being adjusted, and they didn't listen to common sense. And that's why it's probably not surprising today that we're 15-17 years from now after we've actively broken down the optimals by the size of agricultural enterprises with no less titanic efforts, but we're not quite successful at fighting over the Ukrainian Consolidation of Land Bill. At present, the practice of renting large amounts of land rations has become significant. In the pursuit of increasing the volume of leased land, there have already been appropriate business groups, whose activities, unfortunately, in many cases go beyond legal and human concepts. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Affairs and Land Relations receives a huge number of complaints on this issue. The site check found that these structures falsified even contracts of landowners' leases, as demonstrated by the Committee's final inspection, complaints concerning the Bershad region's "Jalanec" company. These and other facts indicate that all of us, and especially the national MPs, need to postpone the political interests of the party, at least in determining the improvement of land legislation. In view of the suffering village, there is a need for active involvement in the implementation of systemic reforms in the most important areas of the national economy initiated by President Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic of Ukraine. One of the most important thrusts of these reforms is, inter alia, the question of improving governance of state ownership lands, land inventory, land market legislation. These and other reforms should respond to the shortcomings that have arisen today and take concrete further steps to improve land relations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u3	Yes. Victor Terrence is handing over the right to speak to Mikola Tomenko. The next act will be by Jaroschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u4	Just 150 years ago, on this day, May 18, in a new style, the mourning procession with Shewchenka’s body arrived at Mikilski Slobidk, on the left bank of Kiev. Officials are confused, it's impossible to ban forgiveness, it's scary. Only by night did the gendarmerie and officials allow a mosque to be held in the church of Christ’s Christmas, which took place on May 19, with a ban on speeches. Tens of thousands of people said good-bye to Shevchenk in Kiev and May 21-22 in Canoe. It has been just 150 years, and the government, like then, must respect Shevchenko, do not want to promote, fear. The sad paradox, the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine led by Volodymyr Litwin and the leaders of the Russian and Kazakh parliament in Petersburg honored Shevchenk, and the delegation of the three parliaments is now on the final path of Shevchenk. Instead, the executive and the local authorities did nothing before that date. There's a President's decree, there's a Supreme Council decree -- no paragraph of these documents has been executed. True, the National Bank released the coin before the event, and the government failed to hold any meetings of the Committee. True, people in Bakery are said to be a helicopter and will be officially open at Shevchenk's grave until the 150th anniversary of a burial that was built for tens of millions at budget costs. It's in those bakeries where Chevchenko wanted to buy land and build a house. And the dog’s son, as Shevchenko said, wrote a report from the Church’s tobacco spokesman to him and then sent Shevchenk to Petersburg. So when one of the Ukrainians gathers in Montenegro on May 22nd, he will see on the road the boards with small and large leaders and a few modest posters of Cobzar Uniting Ukraine, written with a grammatical error. Even closer he will see the wrecked road near Kanev and see the fundamental helipad. Shevchenko will probably look up from Montenegro and say, "only tears for Ukraine. And there's no word." There was no change in the attitude of officials toward Shevchenk. Today's Ukrainian officials, today's tobacco companies continue to write reports on Ukraine and still don't respect Shevchenk. But I am convinced that we will change the situation and on March 9, 2014, when we honor the 200 years since the birth of the Great Taras, we will mention the other lines of Shevchenk: "And we will forget the shame, the old hour, and bring back to life the good glory, the glory of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u5	The national deputy, Jaroschuk, hands over the right to speak to Irina Gorini, a faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be Bobil's.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! From this rostrum, my faction colleagues, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and I have spoken and spoke on several occasions about the situation in the working group at the Cabinet of Ministers, which was preparing a bill on a simplified tax system. It was very much on the part of our opponents, the opposition, the talk that it was all propaganda, the law was gone and it wouldn't, it wouldn't be introduced, it was all business fraud. And so there were speculations about protests and people being dispersed. On 16 April, however, the law was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers in public information. [[8521]] All the media have shown how liberal, progressive the law is. In addition, there has been a significant increase in turnover for individuals of business, and entrepreneurs can now do so, up to 2 million bracelets. Legal persons - up to 5 million. And a lot of other useful and useful forms. Even the participants themselves in the Maydan protest say that the 70-80 per cent law meets their wishes and ambitions. But today I wanted to go to the entrepreneurs and tell them. Stop paying attention to the cheap provocations that come from the lions of the opposition. In general, every third of the opposition in the morning, approaching the mirror, sees a leader in this mirror. And then he goes out and organizes movements, who goes forward, who goes back, who goes back. And it begins to tell you, the very active part of our society, that nothing is done, that dialogue with power is useless. And that is absolutely not true. The permanent working groups are working on the committee at Homutinnik and in the Cabinet of Ministers, and there are deputies who will now be your guides. And until the second reading, we will finalize the law in a way that will make it even better. So count on a dialogue with power, that's constructive. And this is your path to success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u7	Taras Crnovil instead of his colleague Bobilov, the MP's group "Reforms for the Future". Soloshenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The MP's “Reforms for the Future” authorized me to address the Ukrainian Parliament today, and all the social and political organizations of Ukraine, with the next call, with the next call. We only recently experienced dramatic events in Lviv on May 9. For a long time, we will continue to consider whose faults are greater, who proved to be a greater provoker, who gave in to provocation. But there is certainly one thing that has struck the wholeness of the Ukrainian state, social peace and harmony, authority and the whole state, and Ukrainian power in particular. And today we urge everyone not to repeat such dramatic events. We are very concerned that statements were made on June 22 to bring back a number of representatives of various organizations, often with provocative or ideological calls, to Lviv. Let's all remember what June 22 is in our history. It's a tragic day when a country with a headless headshot in the early 1930s by an army is debilitated by reprisals, disoriented by Stalin's play against Hitler and claims of peace and friendship between the Soviet Union and Germany, has been the victim of a terrible, faithless attack by the fascist Germany. Millions of victims who have gone after this must be a warning against politics on this day. Let's think about another fact. On June 22, a terrible bloody week began in Western Ukraine. At the time when the Soviet army held back the attack of German invaders, the forces of the NCSC were tortured in prisons, in hundreds of large and small prisons, tens of thousands of people: all intelligence, women, children in the bloodiest way. From these days, the genetic memory of people living in Western Ukraine began, making them never able to accept Soviet authority or proper symbolism or certain views of historical events. Let's not provoke! This day must be a day of memory, a day of tribulation. All those who will be in places where there have been terrible repression or bloodshed should pray, lay flowers, and not raise any flags. Our MP group urges everyone: on this day, just memory and no politics, to refrain from any special acts and to refrain from provocative actions. We have no right to allow it, not just provocation against the state and against the power of our Ukrainian state, it is trampling on the memory of the victims of the two bloody regimes. Let's not let that happen! At the same time, we refer to other political forces that planned certain interventions and trips to the South and East regions of Ukraine during the previous period. Let us also abstain, let us be informed of previous events, let us not break up and discredit our country, let us live in it, we have responsibilities for it, both for the modern and for the victims of the tap. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u9	The Soloshenko People's Deputy hands over the right to speak to Vadim Koleschenk, a faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one is Victor Terrence instead of the Mishpan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u10	The Party of the Regions faction, Vadim Koleschenko. Dear Ukrainian citizens, dear colleagues, today we can sum up the preliminary outcome of the Day of Victory – a great victory over the German-Fashistic occupying forces. I am pleased to say that the power has done everything in its power, all the necessary payments to veterans, to the participants in the war have been paid in a timely manner. Moreover, most of the local self-governance authorities, before 9 May, allocated apartments for participants, veterans of the Great Homeland War, disabled persons, renovated apartments, made gifts, and President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, announced that during this year, pensions for veterans, participants in the Great Domestic War would be increased by another 20-25 per cent, namely, that today, in the face of difficult financial problems, the State is resolving for the benefit of our veterans, protecting our great historical past. I am convinced that on 22 June, it is a day of memory where everyone is entitled to go where he wants to go, to lay flowers on the graves he thinks is necessary, and no one can tell who to go to, and who to pray to is the right of people. In reading this faction, the Party of the Regions passed a draft decree declaring in Ukraine 2011 the anniversary of the deaths in the Great Homeland War 1941-1945. The fact is that on 22 June 2011, together with the fraternal peoples, there will be a tragic date in the history of mankind — the outbreak of the Great Homeland War. In order to restore world domination 70 years ago, the German-Fashistic occupying forces began a war against the peoples of the Soviet Union and, among them, against the Ukrainian people. The Ukrainian people lost nearly 7 million sons and daughters during the Great Homeland War, and the entire Soviet people lost tens of millions of priceless lives. Therefore, in order to ensure a dignified commemoration of the memory of the victims of Nazism, we wish to proclaim this year as a year of remembrance. This issue will be considered by the Sectoral Committee today. Moreover, the leader of our faction, our colleague Ephraim, proposed on that day, on 22 June, to proclaim a minute of memory, a minute of silence within the time limit set by our decree, so that the whole country could stop at that moment and recall those difficult events, those millions of victims. This is not just to honor memory, but to prevent the resurgence of Nazism and fascism in our country. That is why we will accept this decree, and not only will we perpetuate memory, but we will also fight against fascism in our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u11	Victor Terrence, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Next will be Oreste Mutz instead of Kiriczko's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u12	So Mikola Volodymyrovich spoke and called the name of the Today’s Tobacco. And when they talk about the Smoker, I remember the words of Lena Kostenko, you know, "The soul has gone through all stages of grief, now to laugh." Well, indeed, as early as 2002, on a site called the "moon embassy" it was reported that Tobacco has a site on the moon. Well, there was a time when the rich were shopping for their areas on the Moon, and so tobacco can also now be happy that it has its territory there, and so it can solve humanitarian issues not only for the citizens of Ukraine, but also for the citizens of the Moon. Well, as Kolesnik once said, "The cheap clown is a clown, he's a clown, you won't do anything about it," but either the monthly latifundist and the co-existence of the Minister of Education doesn't alienate the Smoker, and especially when it comes to big money. Well, it's been so recently since Minoswita came, well, it's like a recommendation, but what we do know about "recommendation" is that you can view it as a requirement for university rectors to sign a treaty with this kind of "Empire Info" structure to put the information about the university on the site of this structure. So it was this secret structure that the rectors had to transfer 30,000 dollars, and if you count it all over the country, it was over 25 million dollars. And this financial device shocked even government officials, and even Mikhailo Brodsky, who you wouldn't suspect in any way in sympathy for the opposition, he was authorized to deregulation of the business, he said, "I have one question to tobacco." I quote, "Let him tell us who and at which competition he chose the commission that was given the right to create this information window." End of quote. And that's a matter for the prosecution. But the prosecution is also silent about the Tobacco and seems to have forgotten about the Kuchma case, and yet they are killing us for our political beliefs as they were. I want to say that May 15 was the Day of Remembrance of Victims of Political Repression. Ukraine honored millions of victims of the political repression of the Red Communist regime. Ukraine paid for its lack of statehood, its friendship with Russia, which has always been chauvinistic, whether it is red or white. But today we can talk about the victims of today’s political repression, those who have fallen into the political butchery of Yanukovich: Lucenko, Timoshenko, Didenko, and many others. And that's why when Simonenko wrote, "You are still alive, the cathode of my people," unfortunately, he also wrote about today's day, which is going to pass on to the day of anger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u13	Thank you, too. Orest Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Michael Scherschun instead of Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u14	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. Dear Ukrainians! Earthlings! It is important to recall the words of the head of state, Viktor Yanukovic, on the occasion of the Victory. 66 years ago, the building of a single democratic Europe began to be built, and we want to join it today. No wonder the opposition grounds are empty today, and the opposition political forces represented in Parliament and those who committed the crimes in Lviv do not have real support in the west of Ukraine. Galicina does not support pseudopatriots who do not share European values. In the local elections, 98 percent of Ukrainians live in Ternopolska, the largest supporter was the Party of Regions, selecting far more regional deputies to the local councils than the ex-Prime Minister or the right-holders. The corruption of the oranges and their government was disappointed by the Westerns. The end of strong Christian traditions will never accept the law - defying hostility of which there are too many examples, and not only in Lviv. A criminal case has been violated in connection with the fact that the city's head, Zbará, in Ternopolska, was brutally beaten by local law enforcement deputies while he was performing his service duties as important to Ukraine as ever. It's about rebuilding the historic city and its spiritual monuments, which are neglected by the oranges, because this year, the Watchtower at the national level is going to be 800 years old. To radicals, this date is as foreign as the Day of Victory and Europe. Foreigners and Galicians, over whom pseudopatriots, dissatisfied with the results of the elections, were killed, burned barns, threatened. The father of four children was forced to dig a grave only because he had other political views. On May 15, Ukraine honored the memory of victims of political repression. And the emphasis of power on the need to learn from the tragic events of the past is more urgent than ever. The head of state expressed outrage over the political speculations of the tragedies of the 20th century, assuring that the state would give a dignified answer to those who wanted to warm up near the bloody fire. In the West, Ukraine is convinced that attempts to split the country, stealing from it should not go unpunished. The discovery of criminal cases against provocateurs and ex-government officials is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u15	Yuri Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u16	People's Party faction, Litwin, Kirovgrad. The word and position of the faction will be expressed by Shershoun Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u17	Please, Shershun Mikola Haritonovich. Stretovich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u18	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The current economic state of the country, the incompetence of all levels of government, does not even allow for the hope of a rapid recovery of radioactively polluted areas. In large numbers, this process has not yet begun. Moreover, I can claim to be opposed to such a process. As an example. Significant success in the socio-economic recovery of polluted areas could be achieved today if smart and scientifically-based bills were supported, initiatives on the conduct of agriculture in radioactively polluted areas, the removal of prohibitions on economic activity in the areas mentioned. At the same time, such initiatives do not touch either the benefits or the limits of contaminated zones. Offers are made, criticized, blocked, promised, but not offered in exchange for the journey. The years fly, everyone pretends that there is no problem or can be solved only with time and with considerable financial costs. But no government funding is enough. We are accustomed to considering government subsidies or not the only source of support for polluted areas. However, I offer to think and act in such a way that the earth, natural resources, and humans give in and create benefits for Ukraine. The problem needs to be solved quickly and scientifically. National and foreign scientists gathered in Kiev today under the auspices of the European Organisation for Public Law at an international scientific and practical conference, and MAGATE experts stress the following: the economic rehabilitation of contaminated areas must be recognized as the most important priority in the area of social protection for the affected population. Modern economic recovery policies for radioactively contaminated areas should aim at lifting bans on the safe management of agriculture, the development of organic production, which can be ensured by the adoption and implementation of a programme for the rehabilitation of radioactively contaminated areas. Increasing the investment attractiveness of the territories, stimulating the development of small and medium-sized businesses, such as the special attention given to local agricultural and food processing enterprises. Under these conditions, the economic freedom of the territories will be ensured, considerable public resources will be released, and the victim’s complex will not be cultivated. Otherwise, we'll come to a solution to this problem at a legislatively revolutionary level, but it won't do anyone any good. In view of the urgent need for the restoration of radioactive areas, therefore, I would like to look forward to the support of the government’s expressed proposals and the MP’s corps. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u19	Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stretović, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vadim Kolsnichenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! In my talk, it will be more enjoyable, things that everyone loves, especially children — honey. Today, no one in Ukraine knows how many pastures we have in industrial and private pastures. But it is estimated that there are over 400,000 people who are professionally or lovingly involved in the matter. And if you add more members of their families, there's going to be more than a million. Thus, the problems that exist, concern this part of the citizen, are relevant. It started in the spring. Pasegnars prepare for the main bribe when the acacia blossoms. At the same time, however, problems began. As a national MP, I am approached by dozens of beekeepers who today lose their families as a result of pesticide treatment in agricultural crops. The problem, they think, is that our farmers, our agrarian producers, in pursuit of a carburetor, are using cheap Chinese drugs that kill bees instead of using European certified ones to protect the environment. For example, we call on MinAPK to place a dot in the use of harmful pesticides to process agricultural land, crops, and thus preserve crops. Next topic. Two years from now, our Ukraine will host the World Beekeepers' Assembly, so-called "Apimondium 2013". We're talking a lot about Euro-2012, but we can't hear much about anything in the country except the professional circle of grasshoppers waiting for us in this forum. About 10.5-11,000 professional lovers from around the world will be guests of our Ukraine. Today, we are looking to the government to activate this process and make appropriate government decisions, as this shows the face of the country. What's more, I'm going to talk about the despair that gripped me yesterday when I learned that this winter in the Fatherland of Peter Ivanovich, the Vandals and the Vandals stole a 300-pound bronze monument from the inventor of the castle or the street of Ukraine, which everyone uses. This is the first time that our countryman has invented a system that is now being used by all of the world’s herdsmen. I am asking the Ministry of Internal Affairs to locate them, since 300 pounds [300 kg] of bronze, if not flooded, should be found today and the monument placed in place. And that's the last one. Tomorrow from May 19th to May 21st, 22nd at the Institute of Bee Names and Days Prokopowicz will start an exhibition of beekeeping products, a pastoral masterpiece and just a collection of beekeepers. I invite all the Chinese and guests of Kiev to visit this sweet fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u21	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. And he was given the word. And now, as he wrote it down. No, you can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u22	Respectable citizens! Dear colleagues! In our Parliamentary Hall, there are often different slogans and appeals that someone is doing well and that someone is working poorly. I would like to inform the Ukrainian people that the faction of the Party of the Regions, like all members of the Party of the Regions, as the vast majority of normal people in our State, respects all issues relating to the development of our State, including the humanitarian development of our society. We treat people with respect for every nationality, every religion, and it does not matter to us what language a person speaks, whether he is a decent person, speaks his own language, loves his family, and respects the State. In this context, it is strange to hear the opposition's statements that the Party of the Regions is allegedly blocking some humanitarian initiatives. A few days ago, we did not vote in Parliament for the draft Supreme Council Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on the Strategy for the Humanitarian Development of Ukraine today. And we've been accused of doing nothing. I report that the leaders of the Party of the Regions participated in these parliamentary hearings on 25 October and spoke. We have made a whole draft comment on the document that has been introduced here, and it has not been taken into account at all. And, of course, such work is impossible. I would like to remind you that a draft Ukrainian Law on the Concept of Public Information Policy will be considered in the Parliamentary Sectoral Committee today. I report that we have made 20 proposals, amendments and additions to this bill, because we believe that this law should unite Ukraine rather than separate Ukraine. Moreover, until today, the Supreme Council cannot make and consider a draft regulation on parliamentary hearings on recommendations on Ukrainians in the world. And we will not be able to accept it until the proposals and comments of the Party of the Regions are taken into account. Because we will not be able to support private initiatives on behalf of the State in this project. We will not be able to support the idea of creating, or celebrating, the title nation, the only nation and the division of Ukrainians in the world on ethnic grounds. Because thus, for example, the outstanding builder of Sikorsky helicopters, who is a citizen of Ukraine, is our property, our history. But he cannot be considered an outstanding Ukrainian in this order. The princes of Kiev Russia, as part of this decree, will not be able to be considered outstanding Ukrainians. Therefore, the citizens of Ukraine, I tell you again, the faction of the Party of the Regions and the Party of the Regions are doing everything we can to ensure that there is peace, order, peace, we have all understood and supported each other, we have not separated anyone, because we are all equal citizens in an equal democratic country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u23	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, time is up. For suggestions that merit attention, and all suggestions merit attention, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate letters, addresses, and assignments. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider a package of documents for their inclusion in order. What? Dear colleagues, come on. Unfortunately, time is running out. I can't. Let's just be a minute. Dear colleagues, now, please, there will be a discussion of the inclusion, I think the faction will speak, you'll say whatever you want, give it all. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a number of bills. If, let's think about it this way: if there's an incentive from the initiator to discuss this issue, we're going to discuss it, and if we don't, we're going to put it to a vote. A draft regulation on an increase in living minimum and minimum wage in 2011 is announced for consideration. The initiator of the draft decision, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Shall we discuss it? Then I would like to vote on this issue by a reduced procedure. Please vote. So, what? One minute, they're about to vote. Please vote. [[10:37:44]] For 218. Dear colleagues, the point is that inclusion in the agenda should be considered if the author insists. Please, Sergey Sass on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Sergey Sas, Timoshenko Street. That's absolutely right, you have to follow the procedure when you put questions into the agenda. And the procedure defined by the Rules is: there is article 23, “Improving changes to the Rules”. Proposals for amendments to the Rules. To the approved order of the Supreme Council of the day, they are prepared and placed in the same order as the draft agenda. And in article 22, it is stated that proposals on any question of the draft agenda are discussed under a reduced procedure, so you don't have to vote, you have to consider for a reduced procedure all issues of inclusion in the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u25	You're absolutely right. It's 22, 23 articles, so we're not going to vote anymore, we're just going to look at it. Thank you for the reminder. Viacheslav Kirilenko. Irina, when there's a discussion, let the faction sign up, then you'll tell me what you're talking about. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u26	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm introducing a draft decree to increase the living minimum and minimum wage in 2011. Well, I'm a long way from thinking that most people put this in order of day, but it's not a secret, and it's impossible to hide in any way that the purchasing power of citizens is falling, real wages are falling, prices are rising, and social standards are not doing their job. If you look at official statistics, it says the following. In March the real subsistence minimum was 1,081 bracelets estimated by the Ministry of Social Policy. At the same time, the budgeted subsistence minimum for the month of March this year is 894 bracelets, or minus 187 bracelets, only nominally every person at that rate will receive less. By the way, for the pensioners, according to the Minsocpolytics, on March 865 the actual subsistence minimum, according to the Minsocpolytics, and the state paid a minimum of living for the same March 750 dollars, so here minus 115 dollars, every pensioner under this social standard is not getting enough. In view of the fact that only the government can make changes to minimum wage and minimum subsistence rates as a basic social standard, I am introducing to your consideration a draft decision, which I propose to oblige the government to review immediately the increase in the amount of the subsistence minimum, taking into account the cost-of-living minimum data for January-March this year, made in accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act. And I just gave you the data on this monitoring. Given that this is a very important social issue, I ask the majority to vote and support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u27	Thank you. From Valérie Baranov, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is planned by our committee today at its scheduled meeting. But I have a few words to say. According to an expert opinion by the Ministry of Finance, the implementation of the draft regulation will lead to additional costs from the state budget and the adoption of the draft regulation is not appropriate. The implementation of the decree will require additional costs of government and local budgets if it is to be adopted in the future. However, contrary to the requirements of the Budget Code and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no proposals have been made to reduce budget expenditure, as well as the sources of additional budget revenues to achieve its balance. At the same time, it is noted that paragraph 3 of the State Budget Act has been entrusted to the Cabinet of Ministers for this year on the basis of the monitoring of the implementation of the State budget, based on the conclusions of the first quarter of this year, to make a proposal on the solution to this very important problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u29	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the exchange of information on this legislative initiative. Please sign in. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next one's gonna be Kick-Ass. Irina Heratschenko, please. You can go to the rostrum. Gerashchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! And the honourable Mr. Head, and the honourable colleagues! In this context, I want to draw your attention to what's actually going on in this room with the right of opposition. Now our colleagues have proposed extremely important bills. But you can't be a big Vangoya here to predict how the hall will view them as being rejected. Because we see a general disdain for the opposition in this room. Dear Mr. Head! Today our colleagues from the faction came to their workplaces and found that even the opposition tablets here were broken. There are no known members of the factions of our Ukraine, who have been decided by the majority and transplanted somewhere. First story. Another story. For example, when we sign up for a performance and one of our deputies makes an early appearance, they are always erased from the performance. When a majority occurs -- twice -- three times one member of the Party of Regions is allowed to speak in order not to give a word from the rostrum. Last night, I asked you to give me a line. When you mentioned my name regarding the bill and my last name. Similarly, no such word was given. Please, if you want to work at all without opposition, without our laws, without us, without our plates and without us, we can get out of the hall. But perhaps opposition is needed in this room? Now, here's what I wanted to say in the speech. Dear Ukrainians! Since yesterday, the Ukrainian radio has lost its voice, which has given millions of Ukrainians a good mood. This is Ludmila Savchenko, a dictator of the Ukrainian Radio, who allowed herself to tell the truth in the weather forecast that this beautiful, wonderful spring may be compensation for the turmoil and mess that is being created in the country. For that, she was expelled from the air, removed without explanation. Although we actually hear that it's coming from the Supreme Council's rostrum and there's no compensation for that. By the way, the Supreme Council of Ukraine today owes 500 000 dollars to the Ukrainian radio for broadcasting. So I suggest you go to the Ukrainian radio so that Mrs. Savchenko will not be removed from the air. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues! If you'll excuse me, I'll respond immediately. As for the need to contact Ukrainian radio, I don't think there are any problems. Today, we will prepare such a request, and we will make it. As far as the performances are concerned. I'd like to ask my respectable colleague for a look at the holiday before talking. The point is, if the MP is given the right to speak and he is also written down, if he does not refuse his second speech, he has a legal right to do so. I am. You listen! He has a legal right. And we had such problems that the automatic system was taken down, the MP came up, and we had to put his name back in place. I'd like to say again, dear colleagues. So let's not look here. [[I'm asking you.]] Well, trouble for discussion. It's about the plates being broken. I'll be right there. Whether or not the tablets have been changed. I will now ask you to take a look at this, since when it came to transplanting in the session hall, this decision was taken by the Rules, the Committee, and agreed with the factions. Dear colleagues, let's find out what's wrong. So let's not call it a big state policy. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, it is. I didn't call your name, please. As far as Kick-Ass is concerned, this is my friend Kick-Ass. I didn't call anyone's names, I'm asking you, let's finish the question. () [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll figure it out, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, we'll figure it out. Bullies, factions, MPs, sorry, Reforms for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u32	Gennady Zadirko, a MP with the rights of the Reforms for the Future faction, the People's Authority party. A bill to increase the living minimum and the size of the salary is a project, of course, which is on time. What is more, in our view, this decision allows the Cabinet itself of Ministers of Ukraine to set this size, based on the real possibilities that are in the budget. The MP's Reform for the Future is calling on parliament to support the ruling. It is clear to everyone that the price of food is such that the State has to redistribute the budget and allocate the social protection costs of the population. Because, unfortunately, Parliament can afford to take steps to cancel debt in energy, to change the Tender Procurement Act, which is actually protecting large capital, and other laws. This may make sense, at last, for Parliament to take steps to protect the common people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u33	Ivan Kirilenko is referring the right to speak to Andrija Pavlovski, the faction "BUT – "Fatherhood". Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u34	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Dear compatriots, we have all witnessed that, literally, two years ago, like the Party of Regions, and today's authorities, they blocked the work of the Supreme Council, they wouldn't let the higher legislature work for six months, and for what? It's supposed to raise social standards. At the same time, the reality of life today is that we see that the real life of a simple person has deteriorated considerably, and the same social standards have deteriorated. And I want to point out that today's power has been won by the presidential election because of this very social deception. So now this is the current decision to immediately increase the subsistence minimum, which is why all other social standards are defined, and it is actually under-represented, artificially under-appearing. And if, in March, the minimum living minimum for the working 960 dollars, actually, according to the government of Azarov, is 11,50 dollars, and the minimum pension is 760. Where's the pension for a thousand 200 bucks, your honor, what did you promise this year? She's gone. These are real social standards. And we need to make sure that this decision is adopted. And I want to remind the authorities that if you promise people to improve their lives, do it. And you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't go, Because what's happening right now is actually the social genocide of the most vulnerable and poor: pensioners, disabled people, teachers, doctors and others. So, Your Honor, please support this decision, including a party of power, Communists, Lithuanians and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u35	At the end of the line, everyone will be. Now Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! The drafting and adoption of drafts in general, and in the field of social labour regulation in particular, in the context of deepening transformational market transformations, should primarily look like ways of reaching a compromise between the needs, the demands of society, people, our voters, on the one hand, and the financial and economic, material possibilities of the executive branch of power, on the other. This is, of course, both the fact that the legislator, when proposing a bill, especially regulation in the field of social relations, must come out of the requirements of article 1 of the Constitution, where it clearly speaks of Ukraine as a social state. So, Ukraine, as a social state, is long ago seriously and seriously ill. Why? Colleagues, well, they're handing you out just like I am, the decision of the Accounting Chamber. I'm very sorry that here on this rostrum, the former First Deputy Head of the Professional Committee, the former Minister, the former Deputy Prime Minister, the current Ukrainian National Deputy of the Committee, the ministers of the shadow government don't understand the main point of what happened. The disaster is that, since 2007, there has been a sharp decline in the proportion of wages in the general income of the population, and there has been a sharp increase in the share of social pay. You don't understand that this is a straight road. Buddy, I'll give you the answer to all the questions you want here, you want in the hallway where you like it better. I've had a conversation with you before. Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u37	Please speak, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u38	Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, it's hard to talk to a paranoid person about normal, understandable things. I'll explain again. The volume of wages is steadily decreasing, and the weight of social pay is increasing. We need to consolidate the efforts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine around another concept, the concept of the high value of the national labour force. And one more thing. You can imagine, in places for the local budget today, picking up budget salaries, paying local government salaries. Where it comes from. Let us approach objectively. Let's be specific. And let Sass go, he needs to leave now!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies! Discussion. Replica after. Oh, from the faction? One minute, please, if you haven't spoken. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u40	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! There's this very expansive or impulsive MP who started talking about our political power, and then he smiled, and he obviously thinks he's got it. I'd like to remind you that it's a balanced bill on. Regarding the minimum wage and minimum wage our faction has passed, and all deputies have voted for it, considering that it was made not for populist reasons, not for "where you are now sitting, so shout" but for this to be really implemented. And by the way, this bill is being implemented today in all the articles. So I would ask you to be more calm, or more objective, in my zeal for hysterics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u41	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. Clearly, we need to consider this problem. And obviously we'd have to meet with the government, and maybe on Friday we'd have an hour of questions right up to the Deputy Prime Minister, who's leading social affairs, we'd have to talk about what kind of living minimum law should be, and then, in fact, make all other decisions. Which goes into the minimum of living, whether a person can survive by the standards that they are. And it's obviously going to be a conversation here, based on people's interests, not the possibilities that are in the state, although it's desirable to consider each other. Consider the debate we had on this issue when the Act on raising social standards and living minimums was introduced. [[Wait a minute! You listen!]] And they found a compromise, and this compromise was proposed by the People's Party. Because some of them were concretely standing in their position, while others refused to accept anything. Dear colleagues, the truth is always the eyes of the circle. So here, and so on. We need a serious dialogue and we need compromise, not screaming, not hysterical. And I would advise a respected young colleague to keep himself within the dignity of the human race. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in view of our discussion, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day-to-day project a Decision on an increase in living minimum and the size of minimum wage in 2011. [[Registration number 8281]] Please determine by vote. [[10:56:55]] For-160. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – "Fathership" – 65, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 45, communists – 26, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, "The People's Party" – 0, "Afterfaction" – 5. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we're going to raise the minimum of living. And if we're used to yelling, forget it. Please, calm down! Ladies and gentlemen, I have made a false statement on the fact that the faction manager has called for a clarification of the landing sites. I offer my apologies to Michael Martinenko. Dear colleagues, calm down! Along with it. I'm telling you, come on! At the same time, respectable colleagues, the situation is that the number of factions, unfortunately too large, is declining -- transplantation and refinement of jobs will be. But this needs to be done delicately by agreeing on a position, and everything will be restored to its place until we find an acceptable solution. That's why I think the incident is over. Dear colleagues! Let's keep working. I can't get kicked out of the saddle, so don't fight, save your nerves for the election campaign. Please, calm down. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2011 is being announced for consideration. [[on the provision of city budget funds to the city of Kiev for the payment of an incentive municipal allowance for employees of city budget institutions by regulating the level of remuneration of the local budget of Kiev for the income tax of natural persons]] Registration number 8270. Reporter: Odarchenko. Or Blackwolf, who will be? Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! The city of Kyiv, the capital of our Ukraine, was in an absolutely unique situation because of the laws adopted. The city of Kiev has a budget of 8 billion dollars. Where do they come from? That's 50 percent of the income tax that goes into the government budget. Dear colleagues! In no district center, no city is exempt from income tax. And this 8 billion-dollar removal does not support the payment of the municipal allowances that have been and have been paid in Kiev since 2007. Then about 20 percent of the salary allowance was paid to the budgeters; since 2011, this issue has remained open because there is no government policy to set up incentive payments for budget workers. Dear colleagues! I would like to give you an example of a young specialist who is now serving as a beginner, who is now serving as one thousand and 37 bracelets. Today, there are 3,000 doctors and 4,000 nurses who need to work in Kiev hospitals. When the budget committee considered this issue, there was a general feeling of such a serious hatred for the capital city of Kiev. Dear friends, today it is proposed that the Budget Code be amended and that 56 percent of the income tax be left at the disposal of Kiev and that the funding of the State Administration be recognized as a source of income. Dear friends, we don't want our doctors to take a tour of a helipad built here under the Supreme Council instead of a municipal allowance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u43	Have a seat, please. The committee is Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u44	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The budget committee at its meeting on April 20, this year, reviewed draft law No. 8270, which aims to provide the city of Kiev with the cost of an incentive municipal allowance for budget staff in the amount of 690 million dollars. In assessing the impact on the budget, we've taken into account that the bill does not take into account the costs that the budget is to be transferred to the government budget of Kiev as a coming to the state budget. Current legislation does not provide for the establishment of a budget institution that stimulates municipal allowance at the expense of the state budget. In general, the bill leads to a balance between the State budget and the budget of Kiev, which does not meet the requirements of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Budget Code. Today, it is difficult to call into question the urgent need to pay the world’s dues and health care and other budgetary areas. However, solving such a problem at a national level is somewhat inappropriate for a particular region or city. In view of the above, the Committee on Budgets approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law amending the Code of Budgets and the State Budget Act of Ukraine for this year to be rejected. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u45	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u46	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u47	Have a seat. Please sign up. Yes, the cook passes the Kirylenka. Prepare Odarchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u48	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! First of all, I am sorry that Parliament has failed to support my previous decision to recommend the government to increase the minimum wage and minimum wage. If a parliamentary majority is no longer capable of such things, it raises the question of why it receives a high salary that is so lacking to ordinary Ukrainians. Now on the subject of this bill. For the second time, there is a bill to support Kiev, our common Ukrainian capital. And secondly, most people don't want to support this bill because they're used to getting juices out of Kiev, and they're not used to getting any help. In Kiev, hundreds of thousands of budgeters — teachers, doctors, cultural workers, the social sphere, sports, and physical culture. They are offered an additional 690 million dollars to ensure payment of 20 percent of the municipal allowance for budget officials. The authors rightly found the sources by which the 690 million will be allocated to Kiev. Taking into account also the fact that removals from the income tax on individuals from Kiev’s city budget to the central budget of Ukraine amount to 6.8 billion dollars. So we can't provide 690 million for the Kyiv teachers, the doctors who are teaching our children who are treating us right now. Most of the words just say that we need to support the economy and the social sphere and that we don't do anything about it. Dear colleagues, we need to get things in order in Kiev. Moreover, after such an outstanding team of reformers that you still cannot get rid of. Because, as the mayor of all the Chinese, he rules nominally. But it is not necessary for simple chiropractors to suffer from the fact that the authorities cannot bring about a final order. So we have to help the municipal budget and allocate that money. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u49	Odarchenko, BUTT Block. The next one is Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, when the head of the city administration, Alexander Popov, spoke from the rostrum of the Kyiv City Council, he clearly declared the fight against corruption. And, dear friends, you can see how this all ended. The majority has been reshaped. One Long was changed to the other, to the Long Clone, and as a result of this decision, the only decision was to take decisions on the transfer to the Kiivenergo concession. This is your fight against corruption. Popov further stated in his report that the increase in wages in the city of Kiev was the lowest in Ukraine. Dear friends, in Kiev, where prices are highest, transportation is the most expensive, growth is the lowest. 105 percent, despite the fact that official inflation has been declared at 10 percent, and experts have counted it at 42 percent. And today the bill proposes to minimally support our doctors, teachers, cultural workers, and allow them to receive a municipal allowance, at the expense of a city budget of 20 percent. No political force has been able to spit in the faces of the Chinese people since 2007 and remove the money from them and send them to the State Administration. Dear friends, isn't that a shame? When we come to this site, we're looking at the construction of this Titanic, where 5 or 6 tower cranes in three changes are building this building. You have to say that we've removed money from every budget in every city to build this, you don't even know who needs it. Today, doctors suffer because we need such rapid movement for President Yanukovic. And it is this money that is the source of our help to the doctors.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u51	Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to increase from 50 per cent to 54 per cent of the accounting standards for the budget of Kiev for the income tax of natural persons paid in the city and to allocate additional funds to pay an incentive municipal allowance for budget workers in the city of Kiev. The loss of income from the State budget of Ukraine as a result of a decrease in income tax revenues from natural persons is partly proposed to compensate for an increase of 236.5 million dollars in income from natural gas revenues from Ukraine. At the same time, the draft documents do not have calculations on the need to pay an incentive municipal allowance for budget officials in the city of Kiev for a mere 690 million dollars. The explanatory note to the project only provides data on the amount of additional costs in the section of individual sectors without proper, I would like to stress again, without proper calculation. So everything is taken from the ceiling. More detailed calculations, we believe, are needed and proposed by the subject of the right to legislative initiative for the amount of additional revenues to the government’s rent budget for natural gas produced in Ukraine. Such calculations, from our point of view, should be based, not on relative figures, but on absolute indicators of the amount of gas production, the interest rate. Dear People's Deputies, I think we need to take serious documents that are justified, not looked at the ceiling, from the ceiling, and then there's no law on the head. And people grab our heads, and they blame us for what you take, even though you have professionals in there who are small. Therefore, in order to prevent the disgrace of the Supreme Council, I propose that this law be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, if we'd just started calling, then I would have realized that some of the national MPs who just showed up in the session room thinks that voting is the louder you shout. And we have a slightly different way of voting. So don't scream, please. From Soroczynska-Kyrilenko's group, please, one minute. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! A group called Reforms for the Future. As noted, the project envisions the introduction of a budget incentive allowance of 20 percent in Kiev. This is for health, education and socio-cultural workers in the capital through the removal of 4 percent of the government budget and their inclusion in the budget of Kiev. Instead of the projected 50 percent of the government budget of the income tax on natural persons, it is proposed that these deleted additional 4 percent be added to the budget only in the city of Kiev. What about the educational community of Odessa, Donetsk, Lviv, Harkov, and other cities? However, there are insufficient arguments as to the relevance and consequences of the reduction of the expenditure of the general public budget fund for the allocation of such funds. It's certainly a good idea, but why only for the city of Kiev. We all will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's be clear. It's literally two trailers. First. Why do we put only the people of the capital’s public sphere in a privileged position? What is worse, though, than a teacher working in a rural area? In rural areas, let him work for free, and in Kiev, let him work better. This is one moment. And second moment. And second moment. Let us not forget the other, dear fellows. It would be best, of course, for every area, including the city of Kiev and Sevastopol, who made money, to be left to themselves. That would be the best. But who will then grant donations to Western areas? I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of draft law 8270 on amendments to the Ukraine Budget Code and the Ukraine State Budget Act 2011. [[on the provision of city budget funds to the city of Kiev for the payment of an incentive municipal allowance for employees of city budget institutions through the adjustment of the level of remuneration for the city of Kiev’s income tax on the income of natural persons]] Please vote. [[11:13:57]] For-129 The factions. A party of regions didn't vote. BUT – 59, Our Ukraine – 22, Communists – 25, reforms – 19, The People's Party did not vote, non-fractional – 4. We are considering the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities, [[on the alignment of the period of verification of citizens in relation to their admission to State secrecy]] [[Registration number 8179]] The author of the bill is Scybinetsky. Please, two minutes. From the committee to prepare for Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u56	Scybinetski, "BUT is the Fatherland". Dear National Deputies! In our country, the structure that directly depends on the exercise of the rights and freedoms of citizens. This structure is called the Ukrainian Security Service. And we, as a legislative body, have to ensure and do everything we can to ensure that this structure is fully operational in the legal field and that no violations are allowed, and on its part, above all, of the rights of citizens. In this case, there are differences in legislation that put the Security Service in an awkward position with regard to the legal field. I mean, in the State Secret Act, you and I have approved a deadline for verification in connection with the admission to state secrecy for two months. At the same time, the Act on Operational Search Activities means a term of one month. These differences would have to be eliminated with you. So I'd like to ask you to support the inclusion of this, to some extent technical, bill into the agenda, to consider and support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u57	Yeah, it's from the Committee of Volodymyr Stretovich, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u58	The committee at its meeting considered Bill No. 8179 and, taking into account the legislative proposal, which is to compare, align, the relevant Act on State Secret and Operational Search Activities to extend the time limit for citizens to be allowed to enter the State Secret from 1 month to 2 months, supports this legislative proposal in order for legislation to be unified. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? No, we'll vote then. Carmazine? So let's write it down, because now it's going to be an infinite process. Please sign up. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Please state the names of the national deputies. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u60	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! It's absolutely the right bill, it needs to be supported in the first reading, and in general, there's nothing to be done about it. And I'd like to draw your attention when we're looking at such bills for operational and search activities that this search and search activity is not to be sanctioned by foreign citizens. There shouldn't be such a thing! And the fact that an unprecedented fact in the history of the world, European, when a citizen of the Russian Federation was found to be in charge of the Harkova Court of Appeal since 2004, when he was being investigated, was investigated from 2002 to 2006 when he was the deputy head of the Court of Appeal. Nevertheless, he was appointed as head, and he was now taking the parade along with Kharkiv’s leadership. I'm talking to the majority. Why don't you tell your President, the guarantor of the Constitution, what we have in this country? Why aren't you responding to how much you're going to be working for other states? This is why I am calling on the Security Service, why don't we deny today access to the state secret of foreign citizens? And I'm saying to society, how long are we going to keep anti-government forces in power? Obviously, this is something to think and think about. I propose to vote in favour of this law in two readings at once, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm asking you how.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u61	more of a good time, off. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u62	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, as the guarantor of our parliamentary compliance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, also negotiate with the President on the state order of non-admission of foreign citizens to manipulate Ukrainian citizens. Get out of here!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u63	Thank you. Mission accepted. Jaroslav Suhiy, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u64	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I also request you to respond to a violation of the Rules. The man who was just speaking here basically didn't say anything about the Harks that they caught Usama bin Laden in the sewer, that someone was taking the parade, someone stole a stranger's goat. Why is the ranking of the Supreme Council of Ukraine falling? And that's why it's going down, which is what the rostrum is used for politics. This bill is really a great reason for us to talk not only about bringing Ukraine's legislation into line with EU standards or agreeing to the rules of other laws, but also not. Dear colleagues, recent events in the world have shown this. If we don't immediately look at the financing issues of Ukrainian intelligence, we can have the bad effects that the United States had on September 11th. We should immediately increase funding not only for operational-search activities, but primarily for material and technical security. And another aspect, I'm taking over the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Remember, ask questions about how many apartments have been received recently by the military, the BAF, the IMF, our troops, the fleet. How much? Zero. No housing is built. Housing needs to be built. How many members of the family are employed? Are they even employed? Therefore, the honourable colleague of Scybinecki can only be thanked for this bill and for giving us the opportunity to draw the attention of society to the fact that the Ukrainian State should have the means to implement public decisions that would be properly financed. This bill needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u65	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." Then there's Zarubinski, then there's Taras Cranville, right? In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u66	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. Of course, the proposed bill needs to be supported, because it will unify the legislation of Ukraine in a part that relates to certain procedures in different services, including synchronizing legislative acts in this area. So there's no big policy here, it's a normal order in one of the public services. And with regard to the service itself, I want to say that we, as the Supreme Council, have gradually lost control of the activities of individual branches of our large state economy. In particular, this applies to the Ukrainian Security Service. I think that many who look from the point of view of the logic and development of these events are surprised that the Ukrainian Security Service has not responded to the spit made by the Prime Minister of the neighbouring state, to the face of all our veterans who have been accused of not having their role in the Great Fatherland, as they call it, or in World War II. I point out that this is unacceptable for a service that provides security for Ukraine, because the image does not go in the middle of the country from some political force that represents our country, but from a neighbouring country that is very active in teaching us how to live, and it does things like this. I'm surprised that the publication and access to the archives that would show the role of the Communist regime in the 20's, 30's, 40's, all that blood that flows through the red flags trees today that you're trying to wear today in Ukraine. I point out that this must be done by the Ukrainian Security Service in order to protect us in the future from the return of this bloody regime through today's communist oligarchs, who are directing a state that does not allow Ukraine to cancel the Cyprus agreements through which billions are "defying". Therefore, the Security Service must provide security for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u67	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Then there's Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I'm going back to the bill itself, because there's not a word of what my colleagues have been saying, frankly. The bill is completely professionally made by a specialist, a fellow Scybinetsky, and what are these political discussions surrounding it? And he sets up the right things, he really agrees with the Ukrainian Law on Operational Search and State Secret. And I want to point out that it foresees the absence of an operational-search case when it comes to testing nuclear materials and nuclear installations. I think it's really relevant and it's really professional. So the faction of the People's Party certainly supports this professional bill, and the political debate here is absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u69	Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The MP's Reforms for the Future really wants us not to lower Parliament's level with a variety of inappropriate conversations. So we're going to be one of those who makes a clear statement on the bill. First. The bill is prepared by a professional, specialist in this field. The other one. There is a real problem. We do not have a fully operational system of fact-finding that may threaten the disclosure of the public secret by inadequacy with its conduct. Third. Ukraine is a nuclear country, a country where there are powerful nuclear energy objects that are always targets or terrorists, or in cases of negligence, can cause tremendous damage. The very fact-checking system of admission or non-admission to state secrecy and nuclear regulation is a rather complex procedure. You need to find out a lot of queries, get answers, and check them out, and perhaps ask for additional, clarifying requests. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. One suggestion is to include this bill in the agenda. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities. [[on the alignment of the period of verification of citizens in relation to their admission to State secrecy]] [[Registration number 8179]] Please vote. Please vote. [[11:27:14]] For 311 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in view of such support, we could have considered it in substance, but this is contrary to the Rules. So let's do it this way: let's look at it tomorrow -- in both the first and the final editions, let's make the right decision. The thing is, we don't have a right. Dear colleagues! We'll put it to a vote tomorrow and we'll make the right decision, and I'll ask the secretariat to schedule the meetings for tomorrow. Dear National Deputies! Your attention is being given to the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 35 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage. [[concerning the granting of permits to carry out archaeological surveys, excavations, other groundwork]] The author of the bill is our colleague, National Deputy Shemchuk. Perhaps the honourable colleagues, if there is good will, could simply include it in the order of the day. Please, then, Volodymyr Alexandrovich, have a report to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u72	So this is about changes to article 35 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage. [[concerning the granting of permits to carry out archaeological surveys, excavations, other groundwork]] But what I want to tell you right now is that this doesn't apply to all of the completely exclusive excavations, it's only to those places where ships were killed, or in combat, or in disasters, accidents, and so forth. It's just the underwater world. Of course, we need to settle this moment. Because poaching is now very widespread, I would say, if today there are technical possibilities, let's say, absolutely without any permission to explore all of these objects in search of gold, or anything like that. I mean, the law is really directed, and it's the kind of thing that's focused on this problem. However, Volodymyr Mikhailovich is missing, and for some reason there is no conclusion of our Chief Legal Office for a very long time. And the law causes controversy around them, they're very big, even on our committee. There are people who are in favour, there are people who are absolutely against him. What are you talking about? The point is that today, we have one monopolist -- this is the Institute of Archaeology. And of course, when it's all in one hand, you want it or not, I don't want to blame anyone, but there's some kind of corruption that's one or the other. I'll tell you, in my little village in Winnitzkin, I decided to clean the stakes there when we were kids and all that. It turns out that we had to pay the Institute of Archaeology to figure out if there's suddenly no burials and all of a sudden. This is just a specific example. Because of this, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it would be wise for us to wait for the conclusion of the Chief Legal Authority to be sure, once again on the committee, to consider this bill and then enter with it, to include it in the agenda, that is the opinion of our committee. Because it's actually kind of demonopolization, but in fact this bill is looking at a completely different way, to pass it all on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u73	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u74	Give me half a minute for the author. Thus, there is no prohibition on the access of non-faithists to cultural objects, but an even greater monopolization of the area of underwater cultural heritage research is proposed, and it is proposed to be transferred to the department of underwater cultural heritage, where the director is one of the coauthors of the bill. It's a shame, but our recommendation would be, the law is necessary, but let's get him back to normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u75	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss this? Yes. Please sign up. Please, the names of the national MPs. Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u76	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I don't know why Vladimir Aleksandrovitch commented in this way and in this aspect of the problem, which is national. Do you know how much of Europe and the world's black markets supply our deep values? We know that it's kicking up and down every day. However, for example, I was approached by the famous Borovik agrarian in Chernigovishte, and he says that in order to get permission to build on a site near the Right River, he has to pay a huge amount of money at the same Institute of Archaeology to find a copper spoon of any kind. There's not much about what's called archaeological values. And that's why I support, and our group will support this bill today. Because every day that's been lost is our values that are historical, important artifacts that no one can ever compensate us for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u77	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." Next up is Perstenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u78	Tomenkov, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u79	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, the author's idea is absolutely correct. In fact, there are two parallel problems that exist with the practice of implementing today’s permit system when construction begins and, for example, near historical monuments, near the memory of death, such as fighting and so forth. On the one hand, we have examples of fantastic corruption and monopolization. Is the level of universities in the district centers not enough for us to respect and trust archaeologists, historians, and historians? Should a specialist come from Kiev to Lviv, Dnipropetrovsk, or Zaporozhye to clarify the historical value of an object? Of course, such monopolization is not necessary. This monopolization leads to both corruption and other things. Rather, we have an example and a disregard for the scientific viewpoint of certain objects. I'm giving you two examples. Now, while we're sitting here, we've already blown up the Kyiv Fortress. If they continue to dig like this, the wall of the Kyiv Fortress will soon fall. I'm informing you, this is the largest fortress in Central Europe out of all fortectures. Attempts by scientists, archaeologists, experts to explain that the UEFA furstet, that one coat per final does not cost the price of Europe’s largest fortress. [[There's a car set up there, such a serious restaurant.]] They can't convince anyone, they're digging, they're digging into the wall. Yesterday is the Decade Church. It takes a conscience to have the oldest object, the foundation of the oldest monument, to figure out how to build 100 meters or 70 meters there, because our religious leaders wanted to have the highest church on budget money at the site of the Decade’s Church. Archaeologists are already being threatened by historians who will be cursed if they do not vote for the construction of this sacred place for the new church. Hence, respected colleagues need to determine how to act. Not politicians, not builders, not even churches. Therefore, the idea of the law is correct and must be worked on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u81	Marina Perestenko, Communist faction. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! I am convinced that this bill must be put on the agenda and considered. And I want to take this moment to talk about some of the problems that I have personally encountered on the issue of the protection of monuments, or the attitude towards those monuments. I think there's some strange kind of policy going on in this area that you can define by saying, "What I want is hot." In Harikov, some time ago, a monument was established at the initiative of the late Eugenia Petrovich Kushnarev, "Independence of Ukraine". There was a mixed view of this monument, of the very fact that it was established, but it was established. Today, Kharkiv city authorities, and the regional authorities, have decided for some reason that this monument is a failure, must be demolished and transferred to another location. And they find a place for this, a monument that was installed in honor of the proclamation of Soviet power in Ukraine. A monument that actually symbolizes the time of our lives when Harikov was the first capital of Ukraine. He was the first capital of Soviet Ukraine and it was in honor of this that a monument was established. But why, today, the Kharkiv local authorities, who represent, should say, the Party of the Regions, today for some reason, they decided that we could spend a lot of money on demolishing this monument, moving it somewhere else. The destruction of the monument that Kushnarev was placed and the transfer of some kind, the construction of a completely new monument in one of the central squares of the city of Harkov. I have a question for my colleagues from the Party of the Regions. We are here with you, in the Supreme Council, in pursuit of such a scrupulous, balanced approach to budgetary resources. Today, money is scarce in Ukraine, is there too much money to carry, transport, dismantle, and replace monuments. Or maybe someone wants to work on it? Stop manipulating monuments with respect. And, among other things, with respect to the opinion of experts and scientists who issue their opinion. Therefore, I ask you very much, let us be on the agenda and take the issue of conservation seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u83	Finish up, please. Yes, dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. I'll put it to a vote, please! I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 35 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage. [[concerning the granting of permits to carry out archaeological surveys, excavations, other groundwork]] [[Registration number 8313]] Please vote. [[11:38:25]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u84	The factions, please. The region's party is 0, "BUT - Fatherland" – 49, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 13, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, "The People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 3. Yes, a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the expertise of teaching programmes, textbooks for the general secondary education system]] [[Registration number 8176]] The reporter is Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk, co-reporter of the committee, Vladimir Polochalo.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u85	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's an incredibly important law because of the last "festivities" on May 9th and because of the events that are taking place in Ukraine. I'll start with education in general. For example, in one Donetsk region -- that's where the Party of Regions got the majority in Parliament and won the presidential election -- 26 schools planned to shut down local authorities. And in fact, those who are now being closed are turning, not to the authority represented by the Party of Regions, but to the opposition camp. And that's why half of these schools didn't stand up. And now I'm going to go to the textbooks. To those textbooks that are not available in Ukrainian schoolchildren and to those textbooks that are trying to rewrite the current Ministry of Education and Science. There is a unique piece that has recently been used by Ukrainian students. It's called "Globalism" by one of the deputy ministers of education. I'm going to bring to your attention that in this textbook, which is approved by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, not only are they quoted, but they're quoted in approvingly, firstly, the terrorist number one in the world of Usama bin Laden, who is no longer in existence, and secondly, the man to whom the International Criminal Court is now issuing an arrest warrant. This is Libyan leader Muamar Qaddafi. This is due to what is happening today in Ukrainian education. I'm not talking about trying to rewrite Ukrainian language, Ukrainian literature, and most important of all, copying Ukrainian history. It is said that there is a common guide to history. If they want to give up their history, they're looking for a common ground. In view of this, the law introduces a mandatory standard for conducting an expert study at the National Academy of Sciences and the National Educatorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u86	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u87	all textbooks to be issued by the Ministry of Education. I think that for individual authors of textbooks, there is also a need for psychiatric expertise. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u88	Yes. Vladimir Ivanovich, who will be on the committee? There's no committee. Well, dear colleagues, here's the conclusion of the science-expert department. Therefore, we have every reason to turn to this question. Please sign up for this. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u89	Pass it to Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u90	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Corge will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u91	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr Karpuk, for the opportunity to speak. Look, we've been saying for a year that there's no textbooks for the tenth, and not just the tenth grade, there's no textbooks in schools. Parents buy for their money. In libraries, schoolchildren take four or five - year - olds with their textbooks and use them. And I read yesterday in the public media the answer to a request from the deputy head of the Tomenk Supreme Council to the Attorney General's Office on the matter of the Minister of Education of Tobacco. Thus, the Attorney General writes directly: one million books on responsible storage, manuals for the 10th class, in the relevant enterprise. There's no money in schools, someone's got it, they've earned it, they've got it, and they don't have it in their pockets, and the schoolboys and their parents don't have it. Next. What are they printing? Russian writers, plus 65,000 more than they need to print, someone put money in their pocket, probably because of that, Ukrainian letters minus 85 percent compared to last year. What's not like the Russians being pushed to the level of public policy? Next. With regard to history textbooks. The Minister of Tobacco announced their contents four months ago. As an MP, I asked his boss, Azarov, to provide me with the text of these textbooks that children, parents, teachers don't know, and Tobacco knows. Two months. Attention! Two months in violation of the Rules and the Status Law awaited an answer. I got the answer. Indeed, textbooks are prepared for printing, their texts are approved, and the content of them will be given to you, the distinguished national MP, in no form whatsoever in writing or in electronic form. So a review of history, a removal of the mention of fighting under the Kruts, of the retinal archers, of the fight against the UPA, of the famine, obviously it's happening for government money, and you can't get information and counter that action. Release such a minister of education! Now!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u92	Mikola Tomenko instead of colleague Korž from the "BUT" faction, "Fathership", and then Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, the Arsenija Yatzenyuk initiative is timely because, in fact, there have been two problems of this hypertrophic nature. The first problem, and I call it labor-corruption. The second problem is meaningfully and globally. I'll start with corruption. We now have, as far as I can see, the 5-8th grade control work against which I was speaking has been performed by the vast majority of teachers and parents. Because they were introduced a few months before the start of the control work. Now the Ministry has been alerted that these are such light control jobs. No one really needed them. I was trying to understand, so why were they introduced? And they've introduced one left, I'm sorry, a publishing press in Kharkiv printed tens of millions of dollars of answers to questions. These are textbook brochures, and they were printed on time, by the way. And they pulled 60 or 70 bracelets out of each student. And they've made 25 to 30 million dollars in a naked place, as experts say. This affair was committed in a matter of months. The district education system, the city education department, the school principals, the speakers, the whole country was raising money! And budget textbooks, according to the Attorney General’s Office, say a million people are in warehouses. [[For the first time, perhaps I would like to commend the Attorney General for his objective analysis.]] Why?Oh, my God! And the money's already paid. You're not going to make any money, are you? What, are you going to deliver those textbooks to your children? Who in the Ministry should have children deliver textbooks? You can't make any more money. So I think it's triple cynicism, the abuse of children that today from the Internet that hangs in the village, the Internet where one man or two in school has it, they go to the chapters of the textbook. Print, copy, and copy one of the English languages, chemistry, physics, or anything else to prepare for the 10th class! I am pleased that the Attorney General has said that such actions are illegal, criminal, and incomprehensible. But I hope that not only the Attorney General’s Office but finally the President and the Prime Minister will draw the right conclusions. And we will not be tormented by such a minister of Ukrainian schools, Ukrainian teachers, Ukrainian schoolchildren, and the Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u94	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u95	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. Dear colleagues! Very interestingly, today some politicians are using the parliamentary rostrum to shed another light on what they think about the growing generation, the future of Ukraine. And today's project will be reported by the previous Head of the Supreme Council, Arsenius Yatsenuk. Today’s Vice - Chief of the Supreme Council is being discussed. And that's how they look after and think and blame the current power that it's not doing for Ukraine's future. But I want to remind you, ladies, here we go, and we will be honest with ourselves, first of all, and not to deceive the people of Ukraine. So look, in 2008-2009, just two years, the government of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko was the head of the government. Head of the Supreme Council, I told you who it was. So you, your honors, have closed up about 600 schools over the past two years. So what did you do then? Who were you thinking about? About what future of Ukraine? And if today and the textbooks for the general education system, your government and your policy have not spent much money on these textbooks. Today, 15 times, the government of Azarova spends funds on these goals from the state budget and the closing of schools, the honorary, only for about a hundred and only those schools where there are practically 15-30 students and about 50 teachers. That's where we have to think about today about what to do with these schools. And I believe the government will come to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, allow me to express a number of points of view in this regard. Since the previous Head, today’s Deputy, has been mentioned, I think we could have viewed this problem from a general perspective. Well, obviously, it's absolutely necessary to draw attention to this problem, and obviously the initiators of this project came from the fact that we need to look closely at the manuals in the field of humanitarian discipline, because there's the most problems, there's just screaming, not just in terms of the content of the textbooks, but also in terms of the supply of some of the materials in the textbooks. So let us be frank about whether we can take such a legislative initiative to solve this problem. I think it's very difficult if we don't have a shared vision and a shared understanding of the past, the present and the future of Ukraine. At the same time, dear colleagues, I have to say that we have a complicated procedure, first of all, the selection of authors' teams for the preparation of textbooks, and secondly, it is a problem to get a textbook, if it's written in a gifted or teaching manual, to be allowed to be used in the education system of Ukraine. At the same time, I must say that the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences are already involved in this process with the relevant laws and relevant articles of the relevant laws. In this regard, I think that our problem, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the committees of the relevant professionals, is to examine how involved the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences of Ukraine are. BO are relevant articles in the Education Act – article 19 and article 42 of the Ukrainian Law on General Secondary Education, where it is determined that these institutions should act as scientific and methodological centres for education, including in the textbook field. That's all I thought was necessary. There is a right to reply after making a decision. I'll bet. What? The group didn't get the right to speak? Please, Paul Silent, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you speak correctly of the content of the textbooks, but the subject is quite different. This is a political issue that Parliament is deciding. It is also the position of the prime minister of education, who consistently leads anti - State, anti - constitutional, anti - Ukrainian policy. That is why Arsenius Yatsenuk raised this question not only in one perspective but in a multifaceted way. And that's why we've talked to Mikola Volodymyrovich about the fact that the person who sits in this place, which is "the boiling of acid hides," as John Mikhailovich Zhuba put it, and consistently for many years, who represents the interests of a group of communists in this Supreme Council, has to stop this activity, and that is to say that it has to do with huge.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I was talking about the meaningful part of this question. And we all understand with you that it's not about math textbooks, chemistry and all, but it's mostly about manuals from the humanitarian cycle. When it comes to textbooks in this area, technical expertise cannot be carried out. And you, I think, if we want to have a legislative decision, we have to get out of this. And let's not translate the language into the plane of someone who is now a minister, it's a separate question, but let's talk about children having the only unified and quality textbooks so that in one region, let's say in the East, they don't study one hero, they don't study the other in the West, and then they meet in Kiev at the University of Shevchenk, and there are problems. We must have some common ground in these matters. And it should be what we call, if you like, a textbook story. So I'm only a professional approach, and I'm saying that obviously the project itself, it has to update the discussion of this problem. I see in this an exceptional positive. Therefore, honourable colleagues, taking into account the discussion, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (for the expertise of teaching programs, textbooks for the general secondary education system (register No. 8176). Please vote. [[11:54:55]] For the 110. The replica. Arsenius Yatsenuk, then Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u99	No wonder this bill of opposition, like everyone else, has failed. Two percent of the bills tabled by the opposition are voted on by this Supreme Council. And to be clear, only 7 laws of opposition in the last year were passed in general. I don't think the country needs opposition, but I can assure you that the opposition is fighting not for itself, but for the country you know, and for the people you consider mass. Now the second one. As far as school is concerned. I would like to advise my colleagues from the Party of Regions not to tear their throats off, but to go to Donetsk and Makiyevka, where you close schools and pay attention! - where you're closing schools, what do you want to do? Your offices are partying! You're not afraid of anything anymore, but fear God, because these same people who voted for you are going to take you out of your own Donetsk district. And the third. As far as the griffin is concerned. You know, Mr. Head, I'm sure it's hard for you to have a griff. A. Undersecretary of Education in his textbook, which. He quoted Russian chauvinists, received one day from the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u100	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! I send those people who care for both humanitarian and other matters to the papers. I quote from the State Committee on Statistics about the number of public education institutions that are in Ukraine. We've got dynamics like this. 2003-2004: 186 schools closed. [[Year of Prime Minister Janukovic]] Then the next year is 186, 153, 152, 203, 245. And the final year 2009-2010 is 393. [[I remind you, since March, Minister of Education Tobacco]] Most of the schools are closed at the end of 2009, 2010. We don't have statistics for 2010. [[and 2011]] But I'm going to remind you of the immortal phrase of the Minister of Education at a meeting with teachers at the International Conference, where he said that in order to bring order and to optimize, more than 10 percent of schools need to be closed. This is made up of over 2,000 schools in Ukraine. That is what the areas are doing. So when we talk about numbers, friends, statistics, and statistics, we have a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, on this optimistic note, I announce a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! Please come into the session room and we'll continue the sessions. The inclusion of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act is being considered. [[on the increase in budgetary positions in State higher education institutions]] Pavlovsky's project, [[Registration number 8340]] Please, Pavlovsky. I was on my break. Yeah, from the committee, from the committee, from the scarecrow. Lutsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u104	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I don't think it's necessary to accept this project. Because before proposing an increase in the number of budget positions, we need to ask the rectors whether they will be able to execute a government order in this amount. And I want to emphasize that if you compare it to last year, there were 134 thousand government places, and this year there will be 192 thousand graduates of everything. So if you increase the number of government orders, the order will be more than those of the general school. So I don't think it's absolutely necessary, and it's something you don't even have to waste time for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u105	Who wants to. Yes, Pavlovsky, please, but don't be late, Andrew. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u106	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! Colleagues! Your attention is given to the draft Act amending the Higher Education Act. [[on the increase in budgetary positions in State higher education institutions]] We all know that according to article 53 of the Constitution, the State guarantees the availability and freeness of higher education. At the same time, the sad realities of today are that quality higher education can only be given to children from wealthy, provided families, and the talented children from poor families are virtually closed to education. At the same time, we remember that in its pre-election programme "Ukraine for the People" Presidential candidate Viktor Janukovic has promised to increase budget positions from 51 per cent to 75 per cent since 2011. The second year of power has gone by, and they are trying to forget, even vice versa, the Ministry of Education is proposing that the government order should be reduced by 42 percent, that the number of paid seats should be reduced, that state scholarships should be reduced. So I, along with Dawimuk and Sochka colleagues, proposed a bill that increased to 75 percent of government budget positions in colleges. Ladies and gentlemen! Education is the most important investment in the future of our country. So I propose to the leaders of the region, first of all from the Party of Regions, to support their leader Yanukovich to carry out his program and to support the future of our country by investing in his own.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u107	If you would like to share in the discussion, please write it down. Lutsky, please. Behind him is Sass. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u108	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! I would like to remind the drafters of the bill that 42 percent of the order does not go down, it is absolutely not true. And the government’s order is declining in an adequate number of high school graduates. If you compare and compare with the year 2000, when there were graduates, oh, not graduates, but children in general 6 million, 6 million, 600,000, and in 2010 - 4 million, 230 thousand, more than 2 million children have become smaller. Thus, the government’s order is being adequately reduced. And it's getting smaller every year. But adequate. Therefore, society should not be deceived by saying that it is falling by 42 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u109	Sass is handing over the microphone to Pavlov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u110	Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! I want to remind you again. President Yanukovich's Human Rights Candidate Programme was widely distributed, which clearly includes "guarantee 75 per cent of budget positions in higher education institutions". The time has come for you to keep your promises. At least keep this promise that the student children had some perspective if others can't fulfil social obligations. Keep that promise. Yeah, really, it's going to increase government spending a little bit. But at the same time, there are sources of money that can be used to support higher education. First of all, by optimizing the public administration to cut red tape, the same privatisation money can be involved. And first of all, to close off the shadow offshore schemes by which a large capital, which is now in power, brings out billions and billions of dollars and dollars abroad, leads to their non-taxation. We need to force a large capital to return this money back to Ukraine to work for our Ukraine, for the future, for education. And the corresponding bill I've already submitted to the Fatherland faction is about closing disgraceful offshore schemes, primarily in Cyprus. Here's the money for this bill. So once again, I propose to the party of power, first of all, the Party of Regions and their allies Communists and Lithuanians to support the bill, because it's your promise. Be honest with your electorate, primarily from Eastern Ukraine, by supporting the bill. Because if you've officially written in a program that's still on the CBC site, 75 percent of the budget space in WUZ, then do and support the bill. Let us legislate on this promise. Therefore, I ask all the MPs to support this socially important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u111	Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u112	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine. Please pass the word to Karpuk Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u113	Microphone, please, Carpuca.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u114	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We support this bill because, in fact, all pre-election promises have to be fulfilled. Thus, we see that none of the social initiatives of the President is a myth, the farther away, all these responsibilities are being fulfilled. As for the increase in budget positions. I don't agree with the representative of the Party of Regions who said that the number of seats is correlated with the number of applicants or the number of budget places. Because if even the number of graduates were actually smaller in 2012, and this year it would be, but if that funding were to remain, then this percentage would increase, and it would be possible to keep that promise. Today, however, 60 percent of the funding of higher education institutions in Ukraine is made at the expense of school fees. And if we want to do something for the future of our country, we need to invest most in education. On the other hand, we translate all these things on people's shoulders. Most people are unable to pay 10, 15, 20 grand for their child’s annual education. And paid education in particular, for example, in medical institutions of higher education reduces the quality of those graduating from medical institutions. Therefore, money cannot be the norm for the future of our country. And you have to do everything in the country so that the percentage of people who are learning on a budget basis is higher. And we really need to live up to these commitments, and we are going to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u115	Yes, Your Honor, I'll give you my word, but please don't lynch and press the buttons, not then raise your hands. It's easier than raising your hand. Chernobyl, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! A parliamentary group on the rights of the Reforms for the Future faction has considered the bill. We have made the following decision: we vote in favour of putting it into the agenda, despite the fact that we have very serious claims to the text of the bill itself. The bill is unrealistic in execution, it does not contain mechanisms. And in our view, it's quite populist. But there is a problem. We think it should be considered essentially. It should be made with clear warnings about its contents. And then we have to vote, in our opinion, in favour of putting it to work. So that you can actually look at a bill that will contain more real things to carry out the situation. Because there is a subject that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u117	Yes, Lechchenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u118	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Montenegro. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, here the representatives of the bourgeois opposition wanted to persuade the communists to vote in favour of this bill. So I want to make the next point. When the Soviet authorities were communists in power, they were all in high school, places were government orders, and education was free. And now if the bourgeois opposition hadn't gone, or the power now, too, but education won't be free right now. Only in Soviet times will we establish it. And this bill we will support without imposing bourgeois opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u119	Question completed. Dear colleagues, the question is very relevant. There is no doubt that I would like to go back to what is enshrined in the Constitution: "free education, including in higher education." But let us not forget the other problems. Problem number one. Unfortunately, even the 50 percent of students who study in the state form of education at the expense of taxpayers do not get a job distribution after the end of the university. So the state has studied it, and on all four sides, go wherever you want. So you and I did not accidentally pass both military bills and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to oblige you, if you were studying in a state form of education, to commit it either to a certain number of years of work or to pay back what the state has spent on you. That's one problem. And the second problem. I can't name specific numbers right now, but believe me, I'm telling the truth. This year, graduates of schools who will have the right to become students are far less than those in all U.S. states. It's a good thing we're soon going to be a country with a solid higher education. But you do understand that if a peer or anyone who wants to learn can learn and get a degree in higher education, it's also probably a very cautious approach. I'm voting on the inclusion in the project, the inclusion in the day-to-day project, in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on the increase in budgetary positions in State higher education institutions]] [[Registration number 8340]] [[12:42:57]] For-84 Not turned on. We're discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Ordinance on International Maritime Memorials. [[Registration number 8312]] The author of the bill is Shemchuk. None. From the committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We've been working for four hours now, and we've included one bill in the agenda. I don't think this is an effective work for Parliament. And I'm making a constructive proposal without further discussion to include everyone else and not to worry about each other's heads. The profile committees will then be determined whether to support or not, and the hall will determine whether to support them or not. And then the discussion will be the same. And now we're just wasting time. I support the initiative that Schemchuk took, and I suggest we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u121	Thank you. Shall we vote? Besides Chechtov, no one insists? Sign up. Please, Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u122	Please give the word to my colleague Zadirk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u123	Asshole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u124	National Deputy of Ukraine, Gennady Zdirko, Reform Group for the Future. The point is that we have also considered this bill on the Committee on Procedural Transport and Liaison because it applies to waterways. The point is that, in fact, our colleague Shemchuk's proposal about what the problem is in Ukraine, the problem is that "black archaeologists" not only work on objects of archaeological heritage, but they also work, unfortunately, and they rob objects that are under water as a result of the battles that took place during the years of the Homeland War and civil war. And the fact is that this bill provides for the protection of such objects by the State, they really do exist. And that's why our MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill and appeal to the Hall that it's a fair offer from our colleague and it's worth voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u125	Mikhail Chechtov, faction of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u126	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I just want to tell the committee's heads the alphabet of functionality in democratic countries. If the party wins and comes to power, it implements its programme. Bills are submitted to the programme. They're being adopted. And losers get the right to the rostrum, to criticize, to make choices, and so on. There's something reasonable we can take. But in no country of the world is the constitutional obligation of the winning party to accept all the noises that losers offer! There's no such thing. In order for you to have the right to take decisions in the State, you have to win elections and everything. We just need to get people to trust us. You get the trust of the people – you get the right to make decisions. And if the people deny you, then you have no right, then the people have not given you the right to make decisions. You have the right to speak only to the people. Please tell me, tell me. But it's up to us. Now on what should be accepted and then discussed. The minute of Parliament's work is very expensive. But we have to count the people's money! Why don't we double-click the same plate, first of all we're looking at in full procedure, and we can see that it's not coming through. Then we will review the full procedure again. Well, it's just a waste of money. If the opposition doesn't consider the people's money, we think every penny of folk money. We're not going to do that. Therefore, today it is indeed at the inclusion stage. Please, and the head of the committee shall speak, and the author shall speak, both of the opposition and of the minority, and of the majority. Where the wise things from Mr. Skibnicki went, we will always support! That's right. Because it is the interests of the State. We have supported and will support this. And where there's a populism noise, we'll never be able to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u127	Thank you. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u128	First of all, I can't help but say without humor that I don't know where you won. You didn't win the election. You won the Supreme Council by buying a carcase. That's your victory on that and that's it. But now I'm talking about the law. I signed up against you and I'll explain to you why. There were saying things that come to mind, as one intellectual from our local parliament says, some of them are. That's not the point. Let's take a look at the essence of this bill. He's really needed. But it's a raw material that can't just be taken and put off for tomorrow. I'm sure you just have to throw it away. Because the very concept of "international maritime memorial" is not in the legislative language of either the world or the Ukrainian language. We're not taking the law, we're taking the decision of everything. I mean, he won't work. The simplest route was to change the laws on protection of cultural heritage and on protection of archaeological heritage. Instead, the author, honored by me very much by a man and a lawyer, and so on, but I just have the impression that he hasn't worked on this law, someone to him, perhaps, as it often happens in our practice, and in my case, I don't want to bleach myself, it's possible that someone does. Because of this, this bill is completely raw, it doesn't solve the problem that really exists. And I understand that our committee wasn't in charge, but I'm sure we should just return it to work. And then we're going to adopt some kind of bill that, as the famous intellectual said in our parliament, it's all going to fall on our heads, provided that that head on our shoulders is there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u129	The discussion is over, and I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft International Maritime Remembrance Regulation. [[Registration number 8312]] [[12:50:23]] For-61 Not supported, I'm afraid. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Security of Ukraine. [[on the threat of national security from an increase in road accidents]] [[Registration number 8233]] Subject to the legislative initiative of Skibinetsky, please, Alexander Matviyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is proposed to include in the order of the daily bill, which has a direct bearing on overcoming the problem, in fact, of national importance. It's an anti-accident, and more faithfully, an epidemic of mortality on our highways. This is a world problem. The United Nations General Assembly has declared decades of action to combat this phenomenon. In Ukraine this issue is very acute. It's enough to say that every two years we have about as many people dead as we have in the entire war of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan: every day up to 15 dead, dozens wounded, every year up to 5,000 victims and very many injured and disabled people. Otherwise, this issue cannot be called a national security issue. And this was acknowledged by President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine in his address on the occasion of the opening of the 10th anniversary of road safety on May 11th of this year. Unfortunately, today we see the inefficiency of executive action on this issue, both at national and regional level. It's been a year since the Coordinating Council on Movement Security at the Cabinet of Ministers. In recent years the two national programs have failed. There is now a national strategy, a more faithful project, which is never approved, because it is declarant and does not contain a plan of action. Therefore, it is suggested that we put this issue at the centre of our attention and consider it perfectly in order to work out a plan of action that would help to overcome the problem of mortality on our roads. I would also like to talk about the regional level. Yesterday I attended an international conference on this issue in Kharkiv, which was convened by the public organization. Unfortunately, neither the city authorities nor the district authorities of Kharkiv were present, although they were invited, ignored this issue despite the President's call for real action in that direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u131	Finish up. Thank you. Anatoly Gritsenko is from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, it is the right initiative of a fellow Scybinetsky. More than that, as he said, this level of threat is much higher than the threat of national security. The UN has announced a decade of decisive action to save lives. The economic dimension. You don't even have to talk about it here because you lose your life, and you don't measure it with bracelets or dollars. A simple person who now listens to the broadcast of the Supreme Council understands whether Mom or Dad are afraid to let their child go to school, and they take her by the arm and bring her back. They're even more afraid of the majors on the roads who are speeding 200-270s and killing our people, and they're ransoming themselves from the police, hiding themselves under the mandate or under the status of the VIP personnel of the father or the mother who serve in the government. We have to put an end to this, and this is really a threat to national security. I propose to support this initiative. And I want to look to the leadership of the faction of the Party of Regions here. In your faction, there are enough worthy speakers who, instead of releasing clowns who try to raise someone, did not degrade the authority of your party, the largest political power. So I'd like to ask you to be correct by speaking from the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u133	Shall we vote? Besides the reform group, no one insists? Sign up and insist. Stojko, please. Behind him is Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u134	Ivan Stojko, deputy group "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, the question is really important, relevant, and, thank God, we have MPs who raise the question. But we understand that even if the UN is not on the side, as it were, of the threats that exist today in the world, I don't hope that the Party of Regions will once again not call this bill, as the speaker here spoke from the Party of the Regions, some noise or whatever he said. But believe me, the statistics in Europe today show that in Ukraine the most deaths are indeed on the road. And if we take the same statistic, we know who's going beyond the rules. They're the ones. For whom the laws are not written. And that's why we really need to develop a road court that would reduce the number of deaths on Ukrainian roads. So our faction and group will support this bill, and I ask everyone who is not indifferent to what is happening on the road to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u135	Chernobyl's handing over the Chaplain. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! The MP's Reforms for the Future. The problem is undeniable. is part of the scope of the Ukrainian National Security Framework Act, at least because in Ukraine the state of road traffic accidents is really catastrophic. Here are a few figures that we have prepared for this bill today. Think about the numbers! About 7,000 people die on our roads each year. Let me remind you that Afghanistan's war has taken about 14,000. Is that not a problem for Ukraine? Yes. Our country holds 5th place in Europe, based on the death rate from the accident. If 49 people die in car accidents in Switzerland, 62 in Germany, as many as 152 in Ukraine. Ukraine’s economic losses on road accidents amount to about $5 billion a year and the so-called economic cost of death and injury is 1.4 percent on the basis of Ukrainian calculation methods, or 3.5 percent on the European basis of Ukraine’s domestic gross product. These are very high indicators compared to the countries of Europe. Of course, the bill has some kind of politicization thread. We don't support the thesis that we have to make political efforts here, we can't write "inefficient government." I think we should write a slightly different interpretation in the next edition: "ensure effective government." [[This allows 116 articles of the Rules]] But the essence of the bill does not change. We need to be clear that one of the most important causes of road accidents is the state of the roads themselves. Recent studies in the United States suggest that you should think about it! – 40 percent of roadside accidents are caused by poor coverage. The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future believes that the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Security of Ukraine deserves support for inclusion. [[on the threat of national security]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u137	Have a seat, please. Mikola Tomenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I wanted to support our colleague Alexander Scybinecki in a strategic position, which today's experience shows: if we introduce parliamentary bills on this issue, we usually sink into discussions with the militia, the law enforcement agencies, and, ultimately, we don't have a serious bill on the way out. This is an extremely national security issue. And here the author is absolutely right. By the way, there was a colleague here who said, well, there can't be an effective state policy that threatens national security. Read the article, the article is called Threat. Only inefficient policies can be a threat. But that's not the problem. The problem is that this should be the direction of national security, which is the responsibility of the President and the Council of National Security and Defence. This means that presidential bills will then come. And in a delicate area like this, for example, you know that we have about the most external advertising in the world. Should it be arranged, dismantled, in line with European standards? You should. Only the Presidential Bill will pass here. Questions of the road. You know, we've already come to the point where the local transport tax has been taken -- the heads of district administrations are already walking, like, you know, these gypsies on the subway, and people are getting good at repairing local roads. But not good people should put on the road, which should be a local tax, stay in the city, and the city should finance these local roads. I mean, the roads have to be orderly. Walking courses, bike seats, that sort of thing. So I think that if we're putting this at the top of national security, which we're told by the UN, we have to wait for the ORP to consider the issue, and the President has passed the bill, and we've all supported it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u139	I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Security of Ukraine. [[on the threat of national security from an increase in road accidents]] [[Registration number 8233]] [[13:01:06]] For 105 Unfortunately, it's not supported. We're talking about inclusion. The factions? Please. Region Party - 1, BUT - 34, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 22, Communists - 25, "Reforms" - 20, National Party - 0, non-fractional - 3. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Section III of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Military Veterans and Veterans of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons and Their Social Protection" concerning the disabled and the third group of military personnel. The bill's author is Kulčicki Mikola, please. And from the committee is Suškević, get ready. Please, it's Suškevitch's microphone. Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The bill submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy, our committee colleague Mikola Grigorovitch Kulčicki, proposes to extend the category of persons entitled to establish the status provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Military Veterans, Veterans of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons and Their Social Protection. In particular, it is proposed to recognize as veterans of the military service of invalids I and II groups whose disability was caused by illness from the time of military service and service in internal affairs, which have the benefit of military service and service in internal affairs from 10 to 20 years of age and who have reached retirement age. I would like to point out right now that the right to establish the status of military veterans today have invalids I and II groups whose disability has been caused not only by the period of military service and the Service in internal affairs, but also by the Tax Police, the State Fire Service, the State Criminal Enforcement Service, but under the conditions of service 20 years and more, but also by the unconditional achievement of retirement age. Regardless of the length of the years, such status is established by the disabled first and second groups, with disabilities resulting from injury, injury, disability, or illness associated with military service duties. It is meant to engage in combat or service activities. The main scientific and expert office proposes to reject the bill as a result of the first reading of the bill. The argument is that the law violates the requirements of article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the equality of constitutional rights and the inadmissibility of corresponding privileges. The National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council also believes that the proposed bill should be rejected. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons supported the idea of the bill and, at its meeting, with representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, discussed this socially oriented bill. And while supporting the author's legislative initiative, with a view to ensuring social justice for those who served in other power structures that did not provide for the bill, the committee concluded that it was necessary to finalize the bill. I want to say that our committee and the composition of the committee cooperated with the author of the bill and, in principle, there was agreement that this bill should be finalized, taking into account its social significance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u141	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Then I put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending section II of article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Military Veterans, Veterinars of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons and Their Social Protection" concerning invalids of the I and II group of military personnel. [[Registration number 8192]] [[13:05:45]] For-89 Not turned on. We might be able to do some work when we're looking at the first reading, and this is about whether or not it's about getting into the agenda. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[on the employer’s material liability to the employee for breaking the pay and other remuneration due to the employee]] [[Registration number 8216]] The bill's author is Marouschenko, please. Then there's Hara from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u142	Maruszczenko Volodymir, faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense", Party of the Christian Democratic Union. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In this room, we have not once introduced the material of the Court of Auditors, which provides us with information about a certain amount of debt on the payment of wages each year. In March, this debt amounted to 1 billion 400 million, and now it tends to grow. And in the last 10 years, there hasn't been such a year that the wages haven't been delayed, and it's worth a lot of money. So the bill is if we were to try to find a way to get employers to be more disciplined about paying wages. Moreover, we know that more than 80 percent of the population live on wages alone, and its delay is a serious economic problem for each family. What's proposed. It is suggested that every day the employer’s wage delay was one percent of the amount of the debt. That is, from the amount of wages that the employer did not pay. This salary and a penny for not paying the employee’s salary should be paid in one day. I would ask that this bill be placed in the agenda of the Supreme Council. I realize that maybe he won't solve the problem. But this is a problem that we need to deal with and look for ways to solve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u143	Thank you. The committee is headed by the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Hara Vasil Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! This is a rare case where the committee has not supported such a bill, especially our colleague. Its purpose is noble: to facilitate the elimination of such a disgraceful phenomenon as arrears in wages. But the mechanism they offer can only make the situation worse. What's proposed? Pena is 1 percent a day. Imagine what would happen to respectable colleagues: 365 per cent of annual. At the very least, most of the pay will go into the shadows, and they'll start to cover up the payroll. At worst, this will result in business bankruptcy, closure and job losses, and so on. Today, we have mechanisms to combat this scourge, the Money Compensation Act, where inflation compensates for these losses. There is both administrative and criminal liability for intentional non-payment of wages. Although we have to say, it's not just about these laws. We have the problem of returning VAT, we have the problem of repaying the State's debts to businesses for the state order, and so on. We need to think about the recovery of the economy, the strengthening of control over the process and so on. And what I want to say is that our committee is looking forward to the “mature” of power, executive and legislative, for the adoption of the Labour Code, which makes it very clear. The first is a priority, and more precisely an extraordinary payment of wages, and the second is a penny, a double rate of the National Bank. Economic mechanisms and political mechanisms. Only in this way can this matter be resolved. We simply have no right to make the situation worse. The Committee therefore suggested that the draft law should not be placed on the agenda because it had decided to reject it at its meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u145	Yeah, we'll talk about it? Please sign up. Please, Caplienne, Karmazin is behind him. Taras Cranville, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u146	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the national deputies of Ukraine! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" discussed the bill. We have a lot of claims to him. But when we make decisions, it's this direction that we're going to get into the agenda that we're going to get out of the next position. If there is a grain in the bill, a good idea first, a good idea second, even though there are certain mechanisms that can be considered as an adequate way to embody and implement it, we think that such bills should be included in the agenda and then considered essentially. In a form like that, we've stopped at it, we're not ready to vote for it in the first reading. It's really, in our opinion, quite problematic, it's got a lot of, a number of omissions. But in the discussion on the first reading, we might conclude whether the bill in question could, according to the Rules, be further developed for the second reading or should be intended for further work. But clearly the simple position about the normal deviation in this case seemed to us to be invalid. That's why we decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to include the bill in the agenda, to consider it essentially, and then to finally determine how far it can be implemented. The very problem in Ukraine is truly catastrophic. We have a change over some periods of time that's kind of shrinking, and then there's another increase in debt on the payout. Let's just evaluate for ourselves the situation of people who, working at work, who, without opportunities for other things, find themselves in this situation. We have to look for ways out. So we think that the bill should be considered essentially. Even if it's in the end, then it'll go into processing. So I would like to vote on behalf of our group for inclusion in the agenda so that we can really take this matter seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin. Get ready, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u148	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I have now listened to a speech by the head of the committee and at the same time the head of the Federation of Trades and Arguments. If 1 percent per day is paid by employees, this year will be 365 percent. And I'm thinking, you know, whether I have something with my brains or the union doesn't have a head at all. Because you have to think about it, if you're 15, you're 30 minutes late, you're up, you're down, you're down, you're down, you're down, you're down, you're up. And if a person is not paid for a day, 1 percent of the delay, and a person needs to be sent around, something to eat, he has to go to work and get nothing. What cynicism, when it also sounds from the mouth of the trade unions. And I remind you that in this book, which is called the Constitution, in article 43, the right to receive timely remuneration for work is protected by law. And that's the norm of direct action, dear friends. Because of his opposition to what his colleague Marouschenko offered, God give him health, I just don’t know how it can be done. As a result, the honourable national deputies, the proposed changes, the addition to the Code of Laws on Work 115 prime. It's absolutely right. The Pay for Work Act is absolutely right in both God's and human's terms and in accordance with the Constitution. And in the law on compensation to citizens for losing part of their income in connection with breaking their payouts, it's also absolutely true.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u149	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u150	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro The question of debt on wages is the most painful for a simple person. You can't keep the money you've earned. What about feeding children? How can you support your family? This issue seems to be being addressed by many in the state: both public administrations, prosecutors, and trade unions. But it is not resolved because the same authority covers the same employers who are also in debt on payment of wages. So the Ukrainian Company has been working on the internal party program "Robota" for over a year and a half. Salary. Protection." But what a contrast to power. The authorities, public administrations, and city councils are barely able to provide information with reluctance. But their information does not correspond to reality. Employers hide debt, and the employees they owe it to are also afraid to talk about it. But there are some achievements on this program. Communists in various areas have found that employers who have money have paid off wages owed to their employees. On that basis, the offer. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine should be incorporated into the agenda of the day session. [[on the employer’s material liability to the employee for breaking the pay and other remuneration due to the employee]] And then there are some inadequacies that can be corrected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u151	Yes, please. Dear colleagues, only members of those factions who did not speak will receive a minute’s notice. Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u152	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Honorable compatriots and fellow MPs! Despite the promises of today’s authorities and of Viktor Yanuković himself, Prime Minister Azarov, that by the end of 2010, such a shameful phenomenon as the debt of wages will be eliminated completely, there remains a considerable amount of debt at the level of one and a half billion dollars and does not want to be reduced. Perhaps the authorities are not very effective here. It is therefore clear and logical that the author of the bill proposes that there should be a responsibility not to the one-sided, not only to the employee hired before his employer, but also to the employer for paying in full the full pay. So there's got to be a penny for that if there's a wage delay. You canceled the moratorium so you wouldn't pay a penny if there was a debt for residential services? Then why don't you want to do it again?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u153	Yes, please, Jaroslav Suhi. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! I'm addressing the National MPs of Ukraine IV-V calling. Do you remember how long and persistently we have overcome conservativeism and opposition from various governments when we set up the payroll debt primarily after the payments that were made at that time? How many finance ministers have we had to convince here that this will only help us to cope with debt? It's gone down. But there is still room for action today. Today, there is criminal responsibility for debt on wages. Today, article 625 of the Civil Code, as we discussed to the author of the bill, is subject to three percent of the debt. But I think this bill should inspire us to believe that further improvements in labour legislation should be made in addition to criminal and material responsibility for debt. This is the kind of bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u155	I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for the inclusion of Bill 8216 in the agenda, please vote. [[13:20:10]] For-93 Unfortunately, it's not supported. The question is being considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on fostering the development of domestic machinery for agri-industry]] [[Registration number 708]] Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[13:21:18]] For 169 Decision supported. Please, Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. Prepare Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you of the work of a temporary commission of inquiry that has been looking into the issue of property alienation through the State Holding of the Kragrahrashinvest. Dear colleagues, I understand that in the background of such an event. Dear friends, members of the commission, the interim commission of inquiry, which was considering privatizing the property of the Kragromashinvest, including the alienation of the property of the Hersonian Combins, was proposed by the following law. It provides for a procedure for the influence of the state on enterprises similar to the "Herson Combains" through the introduction of temporary government administrations, through the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of the relevant programme for the priority development of the sector. Dear friends, it looks absolutely strange when Ukraine takes third place in grain exports, when it has its own metal, and today it is unable to develop domestic combine construction. Every year we lose 5 billion dollars to buy foreign technology. The proposed bill allows the State to intervene urgently, to work in every enterprise without violating the Constitution of Ukraine, and to influence production, to alienate property. Dear friends, this bill is clearly in line with the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, fundamental freedoms ratified by Ukraine, the standards of which are part of national legislation in accordance with the article of the Constitution of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill and vote for it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Anatoly Matvienko is from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u158	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the committee's decision regarding the proposed bill. Indeed, the project is aimed at legislatively defining the legal economic and organizational basis for strengthening the state influence on the development of the domestic machinery sector. And it is difficult to deny the authors ’ good intentions regarding this law. But the bill is flawed, and the law is in conflict with and inconsistent with many other laws that are in force today. For example, one of the main novels of the bill presented to you for consideration is the creation, functioning, rights, and responsibilities of a temporary government administration. The introduction of such administrations, as proposed by the project, is not in line with the basic principles set out in Article 8 of this Law for State support for the priority development of domestic machinery for agrarian construction. This bill runs counter to a large number of other laws, and I repeat, by many standards, it is not in line with them. It seems unwarranted and unwarranted to include in a bill a large number of basic terms, many of which are generally known or modern technical or professional terms that are not filled with any specific legal content. And most of all. The financial and economic justification for the project does not contain the necessary calculations as to its impact on the state budget of Ukraine. But individual positions in the project directly affect the budget, reducing budget revenue by increasing budget spending. Taking this into account and much more, including the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, the Committee has decided to refer the subject to the law of the legislative initiative in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u159	Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. Please, Blackwolf, behind him is Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u160	Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u161	Please, Easy, but on the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u162	I'll tell you what, don't worry, Adam Ivanovich. You'd better tell the electorate why you grabbed me and threw me at the Presidium of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u163	Turn off the microphone. I'll tell you again. Not only will I take your throat, but I will take your other place, which is very productive. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, on the subject of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u164	On the subject of the bill, I say. I just asked Adam Martinyuk to give me a word. This morning, I was in the building department at 9:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u165	Turn off the microphone. Please, Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, we just saw which circus some deputies want to create in the session hall. So, Adam Ivanovich, with regard to the project, we will now determine the hall that is being discussed. And with regard to what just happened, I want to tell you, Adam Ivanovich, it's been a long time since we've had to do that to many who come and prevent you from working in the Presidium, so we support you. And what we want to say to some deputies is that this is a science for the future, and you can complete your actions to ask your fists to go to the leaders, to the fore. We, Adam Ivanovich, support you and so on and so forth, will be the order in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u167	Please, Lemza, "BUT is Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u168	Please pass the word to Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u169	Please, Odarchenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I ask you to be careful about the proposed bill. Dear friends, despite the criticism expressed today by the committee, no one today has offered effective measures to influence unscrupulous owners of property. There have been attempts by the Motherland Party from the Communist Party to announce the project. To vote on a bill that would be passed on to the state property of the Herson Combination Plant. He didn't go through the hall. Today's bill allows us to do the same procedures, set up certain production volumes, run production programs at any enterprise that is defined as priority in the field of construction. Action mechanisms for owners who today do not use property. Well, it's not for the benefit of the state today. I'd like to remind you of some examples that came up in the process of looking at the work of the interim commission of inquiry on "StealInvest." Dear friends, 34 companies in the Kharkiv Tractor Factory have been estranged for 28 million dollars, and this 28 million dollars have not been paid, this has been converted into a software product in the form of a floppy disk and a computer. Here is a witness of these events – Mr. Chechetov, who can clearly testify that at that time the state had no influence on these processes. And if the state wants to influence and develop domestic agriculture, it has to have mechanisms. I'm asking you on your first reading to support this bill. In the second reading, we're going to work out all the flaws that you said here. I would like to remind you, according to the International Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, that the Protocol of the First to the Convention recognizes the right of the State to bring such rights into force.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u171	Thank you. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u172	What she considers necessary to control the use of property in accordance with the common interests. The rightfulness of establishing appropriate restrictions on the grounds of social security is confirmed by the practice of the Constitutional Court, in particular by some motivation in its decisions since 2007, 2005, 2002. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u173	Please, Buttercup. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u174	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Of course, this bill should be placed in the order of the day, because it is a disgrace for Ukraine, which produces only 10 combines per month, and our cousin Belarus has fully provided herself with its combines. And I'd like to go to our regulatory committee on the incident that took place in the hall. We need to consider at the committee meeting this hooligan incident and properly call for responsibility if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u175	By subject, please, by subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u176	And I'd like to say, warn the thugs who do these things. The Communist faction warns that if such events continue, we can protect our friend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u177	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on fostering the development of domestic machinery for agri-industry]] [[Registration number 708]] [[13:32:41.]] For-93 Unfortunately, it's not supported. The factions. The Party of Regions did not vote, BUT 43, "Our Ukraine" 12, the Communists 25, "Reforms" 10, the People's Party did not vote, non-fractional 3. The proposals for a profile committee and the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are to return to work. Please vote on the processing. [[13:33:23]] For-79 Bill rejected. The draft Agricultural Cooperation Act is being considered as a proposal for a reduced procedure, please identify yourself. [[Registration number 7018]] [[13:33:56]] For a hundred and Short-term procedure. National deputy Bunny Ivan Aleksandrovich, prepare for Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u178	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Regrettably, such an important problem as agricultural service cooperation is in fact silence even in Parliament. To consider such an important, complex bill by a reduced procedure is to show total indifference to the fate of the peasants, to the fate of the Ukrainian village, and not to state thinking. In two minutes, it is impossible to elaborate in detail on the nature of the problem or the substance of the bill, and modern efficient agriculture is unthinkable without the development of service cooperation, without which neither the United States nor the EU countries can afford it, and Ukraine can imagine, since we do not yet have the critical mass of legislation, economic, in particular, financial State support for agricultural service cooperation and do not need to be talked about. Over the past year, the number of service cooperatives has dropped by almost a third and is a funny number of 442 cooperatives. My legislative initiative is aimed at correcting this shameful situation, both in the field of legislation and state support for service cooperation. You, honourable MPs, well know that the agricultural producer, whether it's a private farm, which is more than 4.5 million, is farmers with more than 40,000, or an agricultural enterprise that has become the site of the former CAP, and there are thousands. Godlessly, they rob so - called intermediaries or those who process agricultural products. Farmers are low purchasing prices and consumers are high retail prices. That's the policy. The bulk of the additional value produced by the manufacturer is owned by the middleman and those at the end of the chain of movement of agricultural products to the consumer. This destroys agricultural production, destroys the village. Protecting the agricultural producer and giving the village a chance is only a modern infrastructure that includes a network of cooperatives. The cooperative organizes producers and ensures their interests both before the intermediary and before the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u179	Finish it, Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u180	I realize that I won't actually talk anymore, because in two minutes, as you can see, I can't say anything. I realize that my bill will not be adopted today in the hall, I will not back down, I will improve it, and I will submit it again. If I had time, then I would really tell you about this preconceived problem for Ukraine and the need for legislation. Unfortunately, we don't want to change people's lives, we want to rob and destroy Ukraine, we don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u181	Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u182	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense, Matvienko. I'd like to inform you, Your Honor, of the decision taken by the committee in charge of Mr. Zayj's bill. First of all, it deserves support for the author's desire for the bill, to improve legislation in the field of agricultural service, to accelerate the creation and effective functioning of agricultural service providers, to develop and adopt a state-based programme to support such cooperatives. By saying, creating the right infrastructure, because it's a key and priority sector for our nation. But the committee has carefully considered all the arguments and norms of this bill and wants to make the following comments. First of all, you know we have the Ukrainian Agricultural Cooperation Act. And if you analyze the existing Law on Agricultural Cooperation and the law that the author is proposing, there's a lot of law that's being proposed in this law. And so at the committee meeting, the author pointed out that obviously the novels that need today, in fact, a legislative settlement, should be made as amendments to the Law, which is now in force, to agricultural cooperation. If we don’t, we get the law, and we don’t know what law we’re going to be regulating the same issues that are repeated in the law. That's why it's the other one. Financial and economic justification also needs a more serious argument. Referring to such arguments, the committee has considered the bill and proposes that its decisions be taken to return the bill to the Supreme Council for further elaboration by the subject of the legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u183	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Please, Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u184	Dear colleagues! Recently, I visited my village. And my brother, the little farmer, asks me, "Jurko, ask me there in the Supreme Council, why did we take the milk for 3.50 more in the fall and in the winter and in the spring for 1.80?" I came to my village, where I had a small cabin, not in the sense that they were talking about Kravczuk, but a house with two rooms. The village of Capiyevka, under the Scyrus. And I'm talking about this case. And he says to me, next door, "And you ask them why the ice cream is stuck at the same price that the milk in the stores is kept at the same price, and we're getting 80 bracelets." So I'm asking myself, who actually runs agricultural policy in our country? A party of power, or a state, or a speculator, a mediator? Under the Communist authorities, such a man would be called a speculator and put in prison. Why is he ruling in the country? Why is he fooling the peasant? The answer is only one: The villagers are not united and no one unites them. I ask myself today: when I voted in favour of the Privatization Laws as a member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask myself today: who, in fact, was prevented from doing so? Could they not have been transformed into new ones rather than peasant communities? So that they can be united in order to bring them to market conditions. No, they didn't. I'm asking the First Secretaries of the Komsomol Rajkoms, the raicoms of the party who now live with me in the same driveway: why were you silent when Kuchma was bringing the village to lunch? Silence, too much regret. To whom agricultural farms were hindered, they were now eaten by all the Ukrainian live animals, our cows. And why don't we back up the new idea of cooperation today? We don't think we can sell the land before.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u185	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u186	Until we raise our village, we will not raise our agricultural cooperation, strengthen our farmer and our people who want to unite in the villages. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u187	Please, Knyazevich, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u188	Please give John Alexander the Hare the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u189	Please, Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u190	I thank Mr. Ruslan Knazevitch for the opportunity to say a few more words in defense of my bill. Adam Ivanovich, I address you first. This is the approval of the Council of Agricultural Cooperatives of Ukraine since May 12, 2011. And this resolution is also addressed to Parliament. Please give the instructions to the deputies to sew it up, and let the deputies read and understand what a serious problem we're talking about in the hall today. And I'm going to make one more argument in favor of my bill, honourable deputies. The Agricultural Cooperation Bill combines two types of cooperatives: manufacturing cooperatives and so-called service cooperatives. Their nature is very different. Therefore, we should not unite them. If we are to unite, we need to follow a very clear line, not as we have done today. That's the first one. The other one. Each of you knows that nearly 50 percent of agricultural products, and even more for individual products, are damaged or come to the buyer needlessly. Why? Because they don't want to buy, prices are going to break people down, or there's no material possibilities, for example. And only cooperatives can remedy this situation. Why does the European Union have thousands and thousands, tens of thousands of cooperatives, we don't have them? What's dumber people than us? You know you can't sell vegetables today. Today, vegetables, fruit cannot be sold. Today, even agricultural enterprises that have been established on the basis of the SPCs cannot stand before buyers or those who process products today. Take an example of such cooperatives in the Zaporozhye region, they shout out: give us state support, give us proper legislation. We can't protect our own agriculture today, we can't even protect ourselves in this business. So I'm asking you very much to support my bill if we're going to save the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u191	Please, Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u192	Please pass the word to Alexander Mikolayovich Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u193	Alexander Paklusenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I am primarily addressing my opposition colleagues. I very much like the agenda you have proposed. Every law I read by name is a delight to me. Because the goals and objectives behind those names must indeed be supported by any sane MP. But as soon as you and I, including you, finish reading the title and moving to the content of the bills that you have proposed, you understand that they do not have the most important -- they have no tools, no methods, no resources and no resources to achieve the goals that you are generating in that title. Why are we spending a whole sessional day? To say we have beautiful slogans in names? You, my distinguished colleagues, must be logical. Yesterday Ivan Grigorievich Kirilenko was very hard on us, but unfortunately for us in his speech there is the truth that we should consider. And he said yesterday that the country is living on the verge of economic opportunities. How do you propose after his words, the leader of your faction, that you take out 17 billion dollars and make someone happy and what? Therefore, dear colleagues, we support you 100 per cent in achieving these goals. Let us work specifically on the mechanism and instrument. Let's work on committees, let's work on every important aspect, the agricultural sector, the JCC, the banking sector, youth policy, and create interfractional working groups. And let's file a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u195	Yes, thank you. Question completed. I remind you that the committee proposes that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to work. The conclusion of the Chief Research Administration is to reject the bill. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on Bill 7018 on agricultural service cooperation. [[13:47:30.]] For-48 Not supported. The Committee’s proposal for further work is valid. [[13:47:50]] Z-62 Not supported. The bill was rejected. I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. We are considering: the draft Act amending article 138 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for illegal medical activities]] [[Registration number 7189]] There's a short cut. Excuse me, there's a letter from national deputy Shemchuk calling off the bill. I am voting on a motion to withdraw the bill and withdraw it from consideration. Please vote. [[13:48:40]] For 245 The bill has been revoked and withdrawn. We're looking at a draft law amending the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on the provision of human rights monitoring]] [[Registration number 7217]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:49:12]] For 204 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Stratovic Volodymyr Mikolajovic is a reporter. And he's from the committee, so you have a four-minute window. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u196	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and voters! The problem of human rights enforcement of the police is permanently present in the social discourse of an independent Ukraine and needs an immediate solution. In recent times, it has become particularly relevant, and a Ukrainian citizen appeals to the guards every day. But the optimistic slogan of their understanding and cooperation is that the militia and the militia with the people now sound like a question that has no definite answer. It is to overcome this dangerous trend that a bill of law that I am the author of is directed to overcome. He envisages the addition of article 7 of the Police Act to a new part of 14 which provides for the creation of a special structural unit directly under the Minister of Internal Affairs with the functions of monitoring the observance of human rights in the activities of the internal affairs bodies of Ukraine, in the form of the General Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in the areas, cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, in the transport, city, district and line offices of administration. The purpose of the bill is to legislatively establish the rule that the creation of a system of special structural units from the function of monitoring the observance of human rights in the work of internal affairs bodies. Because law - enforcement officials and members of public organizations have found that numerous cases of human rights violations by police officers occur in a mass way and are already forming a dangerous stereotype as a habit. In particular, hundreds of citizens are illegally handcuffed in service offices outside their borders. Thousands of citizens have been kept in the city and district departments of internal affairs without justification and beyond the prescribed time limit. The numerous tortures of detainees, the illegal use of physical influences, and special means have been recorded. The number of illegal searches of housing without sanctions and a number of other offences is increasing. An objective argument is the tendency to increase the number of appeals coming to Parliament from affected citizens. The information published by the Commissioner for Human Rights shows that the problem of torture remains a systemic one, which continues to lead to the death of detainees. In 2008, 4 people were tortured to death, 2009-3. And yesterday's TV news channel reported that in 2010 it reached 50. Note that according to the plan of action taken to fulfil Ukraine’s responsibilities and obligations arising out of its membership in the Council of Europe, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, along with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Office of the Attorney General, is obliged to ensure that the recommendations of the European Committee on the Prevention of Torture, either inhuman or degrading, conduct or punishment are continuously enforced. Or make a proposal to the President to establish a national private mechanism in accordance with article 3 of the optional protocol. In reviewing the project, the committee noted that the adoption of a bill of amendments would lead to the creation of additional control units at the expense of weakening. And it won't produce the desired result, because the police will control themselves with the militia. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the results of the first reading of the draft legislative initiative. As the author observes, the creation of appropriate structural units with the function of monitoring human rights, the activities of internal affairs bodies should address such tasks. Improve the form of prevention of service offences. Give dynamism to the internal control system on the legality of activities. It is possible to analyse the causes of these violations by police personnel, to strengthen the monitoring of international standards for the protection of human rights and freedoms in the practical activities of the Ministry of Justice, to help overcome the repressive trends of the system and to involve the public in cooperation and understanding with law enforcement officials. In view of these circumstances, I appeal directly to Parliament to support my initiative and to create an appropriate unit within the IMF. In part, it was not agreed, but yesterday 50 young people protested the death of their peer, Indila, in Shevchenkovsky’s RU. In a year, our justice system did not name those responsible for the death of a young man. In addition, Amnesty International has recognized Ukraine as a country where torture is applied with a corresponding decline in its world rating. And the last. That's the last one. Every student in first grade, in law theory.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u197	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u198	There's a known thesis on the government's preventive function. And many know, especially the medical profession, that it is easier to prevent the disease than to treat it. I believe that today, when we close our eyes to the problem of police torture, we are driving the disease inside. Authorities are changing, people are dying in cathode, and preventive measures are needed. That's the way it is, we think it could be a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u199	Thank you. Shall we vote? Yes, please sign up. Seven, please. Yes, we can get out of here. You can go to the rostrum if you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u200	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ostap Semerak, Faction of Yulia Timoshenko, BUT is Fatherland. In fact, the protection of human rights is guaranteed by the Constitution and international instruments that Ukraine has signed and taken responsibility for itself. Of course, the author of the bill is absolutely right when he raises the problem and after the events that take place both in the district authorities of the militia and in the correctional institutions where people die, he requires close control. But I would like to point out that not only these rights are important, but other human rights are also important. Especially the right to information. I would like to point out that some newspapers, after our vote last night here in Parliament, have somehow seriously distorted information about the results of the vote. For example, today's newspaper in today's issue has printed completely false information, violated our rights both to national MPs and to citizens, to the knowledge of reliable information, and published that the faction of "The Yulia Timoshenko" has voted in favour of this bill. In the discussion, I would like to highlight and inform us, the national MPs, and the public that, last night's vote, our faction gave no vote in support of the Corruption Act on Tender Procedures. Thank you for your attention, and I'm sorry that I'm a little out of line.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u201	Please, Knyazevich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, so much has been said about this subject. Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for bringing this up right now, because it's, like, never relevant. After all, such units actually existed. They existed legally, illegally, but at least they existed in the last five years of our history, when every high-ranking officer in the militia knew clearly that any of his actions was being followed by a specially designed unit, which, in the first place, placed control of human rights in its activities. Such units have agreed to include leading defenders of Ukraine and also representatives of those rights-based structures that have been active in monitoring human rights in Ukraine since independence. Moreover, I would like to remind you that to a large extent the activities of this kind of unit are resonating with the overall monitoring that is being carried out by the European structures under the auspices of the Council of Europe for Ukraine so far. And no matter how many arguments for Ukraine's benefit, it shows to the European general that we're kind of fulfilling these commitments that we're making, but this monitoring is continuing, it's being delayed, and Ukraine is staying under a strict microscopic, I would even say, an overview of European structures. Thus, this kind of instigation or a more accurate recovery of the department among internal affairs agencies will not make the situation around human rights in the law enforcement system any worse. I'm not going to negotiate what's already been said, but the unwillingness of current law enforcement officials to allow attorneys to take control of the processes that are taking place in their system is somewhat alarming. And if we're talking about this publicity and openness, if we're at every step of the way from this rostrum, we're talking about the fact that the police have nothing to hide from.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u203	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u204	So let's adopt this law and help the militia really be a step closer to people so that civil society has fewer doubts about illegal, possibly law enforcement activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u205	Please, Landik, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u206	Thank you. Dear colleagues! So if you look at this bill, it doesn't make any sense. Look, you want, you're suggesting that there's a unit in the internal affairs offices where lawyers work. So you're a lawyer who in his day gave in to torture, and whatever you did, you're gonna dress up as a cop or something? I understand that there's a police department and an internal investigation department, and that we know something about internal investigations or internal security, it's gonna be the same thing as the internal human rights department. It would be more logical if we had a Human Rights Commissioner, and we could be creating a special unit for the police. However, the cases that we see and the analysis show that in a year, twice the number of people killed in the raids, in the mangroves, it must be those organizations that were created by us that are under our control with you, and so somehow you want to control the militia itself. It doesn't make sense. I don't think we should vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u207	Zarubinsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u208	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The idea of monitoring and monitoring human rights, implementing human rights is extremely good, but I have to agree with the previous speakers and add that the very essence of law enforcement and defenders is somewhat different. Lawyers must be absolutely independent, completely independent of the leadership of law enforcement, and then the effectiveness will be real, not ephemeral. And on the contrary, it is the rights-based organizations that must be involved in this process, but on the basis of cooperation, on the basis of their admission to the various things that happen in law enforcement. Imagine when this will be a division of the law enforcement agencies themselves, which control is real on the part of the right of protection. There could be law-enforcement attorneys. Well, logic suffers, frankly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u209	Yes, dear fellows, we will. There's no closing word, because there's been a brief procedure. The idea is right, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, but you see the mood of the session room. The Committee's conclusion is to return to work. That's the same conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, but the author is asking for his support. That's why I put him to the vote. On adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on the provision of human rights monitoring]] [[Registration number 7217]] Please vote. [[14:02:08]] For-35 Unfortunately, it's not supported. The offer is for back-up. Please vote. [[14:02:28]] For-39 A little bit more. 39. Overruled. Dear colleagues, I think, and you know what's in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system is a service such as internal security. And I think they should monitor these problems, too. We're considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience. I went on for 15 minutes, I went on for 15 minutes. draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience to Religious Organizations. [[on the social protection of students and teachers of spiritual educational institutions]] [[Registration number 6123]] Please vote in favour of the summary procedure for consideration of the matter. [[14:03:25]] For 205 Please, Vladimir Stanislavovich Maruschenko. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u210	Marushenko Volodymir, faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense", Party "Christian-Democratic Union". Dear Adam Ivanovich, your esteemed colleagues, there is a bill for you to reason on settling the social rights of students of spiritual educational institutions by students of private and state educational institutions. What is the point of the problem? The point of the problem is that the activities of spiritual educational institutions are regulated by the Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations Act, and the activities of higher education institutions are regulated by the Education Act. So, in the Education Act, in article 3, in article 55, 57, all the rights and social guarantees of students, students of pedagogical, academic and pedagogical workers are provided. Article 11 of the Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organization Act provides for social guarantees and rights, but they are incomplete. And we know that according to article 24 of the Constitution, Ukrainian citizens have equal constitutional rights and freedoms and are equal before the law, and there can be no privileges and restrictions in Ukraine based on religious beliefs. As a result, we have these limitations according to our religious beliefs. Today, there are 199 spiritual schools in Ukraine. About 10,000 students are trained in the daily form of education. And from my point of view, there is a need for both students of spiritual schools and teachers to be balanced in social rights with students of private and state institutions. What these rights are. These include the provision of opportunities for students to attend spiritual schools in urban, suburban, and intercity transport, and the provision for students of spiritual teaching facilities at night and night.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u211	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u212	education of the right to additional leave in relation to education, the extension to the scientific and pedagogical composition of the staff of the spiritual-educational institutions of the rules governing the exercise, the provision of leave for them, the extent of leave established for scientific and educational workers and scientific workers, the time taken for work in the spiritual educational institutions into the scientific and pedagogical internships. All these things are not available today for those who are learning or who are working in spiritual educational institutions. And I would still ask that we support my legislative initiative for 10,000 students, people, that can improve and implement the principle of justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u213	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u214	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, clothing from the Winnick factory "Vodarka", buy the natives. Dear colleagues! The Committee on Culture and Spirituality, when we held a joint meeting with the Council of the Churches of Ukraine, we have just heard a proposal from the hierarchy, the heads of our faiths all who function in Ukraine on what they have asked very much, really compare in the small rights that our students of civil, secular, will have to say more precisely to the institutions of teachers and students. And indeed, today, thank God, today, spiritual institutions function completely openly, legally, and equally, their graduates who then go to serve one religion or another. By the way, what I'm stressing is that it's everyone without the exception of religion, whether we're sympathetic to one another or the other, we go to that church or to another church, it's true of everyone. And today in Ukraine there are really almost two hundred educational institutions of spiritual, ecclesiastical, and this is true of a large number of people. The committee therefore supports the initiative. We are very glad that the majority representative did so. Because of that, I have no doubt that this is obviously going to go away, that you will. It's not that big of a cost, it's actually a cost of money, but we're going to do a good job. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality asks you to support the initiative of your majority representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u215	Shall we vote? Sign up. Kosov Mikhailo, followed by Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u216	Mikhailo Kosov, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Reform and Order Party. Dear colleagues, the point is that 20 years have passed since the adoption of the Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations Act. So, in itself, over the past 20 years, the legislative framework has changed a lot, and it is different today. And what the spokesman for Marušchenko said, and what is really written as legal standards, the Education Act, secular education, for example, does not have the same standards in the Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations. This already creates, as it were, a social inequality among our fellow countrymen. Then the prerogatives proposed by the author of the legislative initiative are not so wide, or too exhausting for any budget, the budget of local self-government or government, that we may not vote for them. And then again, the last. We've talked about and asked a lot of questions, including whether a specialty like theology should be included in the list of science subjects that are listed in the State Register. And there's a lot of spiritual educational institutions, they really do have state certificates, they have government certificates today. So when are we.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u217	Stone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u218	Please give my word to my colleague Curilo Vitali Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u219	Smoker, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u220	Deputies! Everything the author of the bill said is in principle understood and all this is good, by one "but." But this is because students and teachers of spiritual educational institutions are totally out of line and are not subject to the Higher Education Act. These educational institutions do not pass licensing systems, accreditation systems, there are completely different school salaries. They are not controlled by the Ministry of Education and Science in terms of the content of education, in terms of the organization of the educational process. So these are completely autonomous educational institutions that have absolutely nothing to do with public or private higher education institutions that are subject to the Higher Education Act. Thus, there is some doubt as to how much of the Higher Education Act can be distributed concerning the rights, responsibilities of students and teachers from higher education to the very spiritual educational institutions themselves. It seems to me that some of the rules of the Higher Education Act should first be harmonized and that the rights and responsibilities of this law or of the rights that there are for students and teachers of spiritual higher educational institutions should be distributed. So doubt it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u221	Thank you. On demand of leadership, the faction of our Ukraine has Karmazin for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u222	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Right now, we're talking about ignoring the Constitution of Ukraine again. I remind you that it says, "The citizens of Ukraine have equal constitutional rights and freedoms, are equal before the law." And there can be no privileges in part two. This is article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine. As a result, "Citizens who are studying in higher and secondary spiritual institutions are using the rights and benefits established by Ukraine's legislation for students and students of private educational institutions" is recorded in the project. Private, repeat. Absolutely fine. Article 11 is complemented by part three: "Teachers and workers are also likened to social rights and guarantees." I'm certainly against the word "compared." They have the same rights, not by law, but by the Constitution. Now we're just correcting the inadequacies that are in our legislation. We need to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u223	Yes, we'll vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations. [[on the social protection of students in spiritual schools]] [[Registration number 6123]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:14:40]] For-47 Not supported. And, dear fellows, let's vote on the bill one more time because we had a little bit of a situation in the Rules, we've moved away from the Rules. Registration number 2750 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Rights to Inventory and Useful Models. Stepan Antonovich, please one minute, you and one minute, Lutsky. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u224	Guys, I'm short. Dear colleagues, the purpose of the bill is to amend the Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Rights of Inventions and Useful Models to eliminate some of its inconsistencies with the Ukrainian Law on State Secrets regarding secret inventions and secret useful models. Let me give you an example of one of the differences. Yes, according to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Rights of Inventions and Useful Models, a state expert who decides whether to attribute an invention or a useful model to a state secret determines the circle of persons who may have access to this invention. And under the Ukrainian State Secret Act, a state expert defines a government authority that has the right to make decisions about a circle of people who may have access to a secret invention. This bill proposes in the Law of Inventions to formulate the task of a state expert as well as in the Law on State Mystery. The bill also contains a number of other proposals for amendments to the law on inventions that are secretive, which relate to the state secret, including publication, procedures for the publication of secret inventions, procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u225	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u226	Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u227	Yes, please, Lutsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u228	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the Committee on Science and Education, has considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Rights of Inventory and Useful Models, and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading. [[on the protection of the rights to secret inventions and beneficial models]] [[Registration number 2750]] The proposed draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Rights of Inventions and Useful Models is intended only to eliminate the disagreement between the Ukrainian Law on State Mystery and the current Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Rights of Inventions and Useful Models. The proposed changes significantly improve the law on the protection of rights, making the protection of the rights to inventions and beneficial models more perfect. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill may be based on the following considerations and proposals. The bill also supports the National Security Committee. And the adoption of the bill does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-18-m0.u229	Thank you. Shall we vote? I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Protection of the Rights of Inventions and Useful Models. [[about secret inventions]] [[Registration number 2750]] Please vote. [[14:18:08]] For 240 Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, before the meeting is concluded, I would like to address you and the electorate. I regret not to hold back from the insolence of my colleague, but I once had to put a dot. I can't tell you everything, and you don't hear everything, fortunately, that this national MP is making when he comes to the person who presides over the meeting. He's crossing every line. I don't think he'll come near us anymore. I'm sorry about that, though. Dear colleagues, this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council declares closed. We work on committees and factions. I ask the committees that prepare for the second reading, especially if we have anything to consider tomorrow. I'll start work tomorrow at 10:00.
