ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:50]] 393 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Honourable National Deputies, President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine is taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarov, Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Anatoly Sergiyovich Golovin, Acting Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Anatoly Grigorovich Jarem. [[Applause]] According to articles 85 and 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appointed Alexander Mikhailovich Pasenyuk as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. According to article 17 of the Constitution Act, the Court of Ukraine and part of article 217 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine makes an oath at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Pasenyuk Alexander Mihajlovich, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u2	An oath from the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I, Pasenyuk Alexander Mihajlovich, solemnly and conscientiously swear to the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u3	Congratulations, Alexander Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! In connection with the appointment of Pasenyuk Alexander Mikhailovich as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, we need to take a decision to release him from office as judge of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision as a decision to release the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine from office as Judge of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine Pasenyuk Alexander Mihajlovich in connection with the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please vote. [[16:05:17]] For 275 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, for his participation in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and the acting Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. Two factions: "BUT-" and NU-N ask for a recess or a speech. Please, Oksana Bilozer, one and a half minutes. And one and a half minutes, Shevchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u5	The Honorable Presidium! Dear fellow national MPs! A venerable Ukrainian community! On November 9, Ukraine will celebrate the Day of Ukrainian Writing and Language. On November 9, last year, Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic, greeting Ukrainian citizens on the occasion of Ukrainian writing and language, said: "Ukrainian language as a priceless acquisition of the people will continue to be the consolidating force of our society, confidently protected for the benefit of our state." Article 14 of the Ukrainian Culture Act states: "The support of domestic producers in the field of culture is achieved through the establishment of quotas, the demonstration of national, Ukrainian, cultural products on television, radio and film." Therefore, quotas are a mechanism for the implementation of state policy, which relates to the functioning of the national language defined in Ukrainian laws. I understand, Your Honor, that you are not interested in hearing about the state policy that applies to national language. But I would like to point out that these are legislative and constitutional rules that are required to be implemented both by the State and by society, by Ukrainian citizens, including. What are we looking at today? We are considering the removal from the Television and Radio Regulations Law, which oblige radio and television to implement Ukraine’s national policy. That is, the presence on the air of Ukrainian works and performers is eliminated. That's the first one. The other one. The Ukrainian cultural product is deprived of any claim to be on the air. Another change in the programming concept of speech gives television speakers reason not to include the works of Ukrainian authors and performers in their broadcasts at all. In fact, we are talking today about the fact that this law legitimizes what is actually happening in Ukraine today. The Ukrainian - speaking, native, cultural product as a compulsory component of the nation is systematically removed from our lives. Ukrainian as a national language.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u6	Yes, thank you. Yes, please, Shevchenka, please. Then please have one more minute. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u7	Ukrainian as a national language comes out of the life of Ukrainian society. I have a natural question: what will President Viktor Janukovic talk about, and it's a shame that he can't hear this right now, but what will he talk about when he greets the Ukrainian nation on November 9, 2011? Who's setting up the president? Because it is he who will ultimately be responsible for what will take place today in the hall. Because he is the guarantor of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 10 of which states: "The State ensures the comprehensive development and functioning of Ukrainian language in all spheres of social life throughout Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u8	Yeah, that's it. I'm sorry. I repeat, three minutes. You didn't want to divide by two, so that's not my problem. Please, Bondarenko. That's not my problem. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That's not my problem. Bondarenko. There's no minutes left. Bondarenko, please, on the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I repeat. You must be honest in front of each other. You want to take half a minute, you're three minutes out. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the faction of Yulia Timoshenko and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" we call for a bill to be removed from consideration that proposes to abolish quotas for Ukrainian music and national product. We thank the factions of Reforms for the Future and the factions of the People's Party who have supported us in this demand. Everyone who loves Sofia Rotaru or Potap and Nastya Kamenski, who likes Ukrainian song, who likes Ocean Elsa or Mandry, we can listen to different music, but we have to be patriots when it comes to Ukrainian performer, Ukrainian producer and Ukrainian journalist. In Europe, in France, 40 percent for the national product, in Spain, 51 percent for the national product. In the European Union, there is a requirement that at least 50 percent of the product produced in the European Union. What causes us to give up? We don't understand that we're giving the market to foreign show business and media business. Is that what this is all about? Culture is not just about hanging towels or singing Ukrainian songs at dinner. It's for our performer, for our journalist, for our producer. We demand that this bill be removed from the schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u10	Yes, please, Helen, to the rostrum. Helen, take your seat then. You received 138 votes for the transfer. The session had already voted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please, first amendment, Kosov. Mikhail Kosov, are you insisting on correction? Please, Kosova microphone. Kosova microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u11	Dear National Deputies! In the overall range of language for every television organization, national audio and video products, including music by Ukrainian authors or performers, are at least 70 to 73 percent. I made that offer. The opposite argument that we don't have a native product for this amount of television and radio is not true. There is no argument. Because it's a very large heritage of Ukrainian culture that isn't used on television or on radio. Which is why I want you to support my proposal and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u12	The first amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:13:52]] For – 103 Not supported. 2 readjustments included. 3rd, please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u13	Dear colleagues! Dear voters, dear Ukrainians who are listening to us now! I want to read a little piece with an interview by the author of this bill, which I would call a bill, is a terrorist act against Ukrainian culture. Listen to what she says. She's asked, "Who did you mean when you talked about some sort of Ukrainian performer?" She says, "I won't tell you that in my life. Why am I going to act like an offender right now? I have a lot of thinking about it, but I'm not a suicide killer, and I'm not going to call them. Would you name your enemies after work?" This is what she calls Ukrainian songwriters, calling her enemies by work! I know you're not voting for my 74 percent. But what I'm trying to say is that this group of people today dismantles the Ukrainian state, dismantles the Ukrainian soul. Because, Ukrainians, let us rise because they will soon lift us up completely! They are few, but they are fiercely aggressive!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u14	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u15	Actually, I need to respond to the crash. First of all, you quoted a false interview with the "UNIAN" this time. And second of all. You know, you've been the Kremlin's footman for 300 years, as you yourself admitted in one interview, now you want to be the footstool of America. With God! Let's go!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, vote. May I have your attention, fellow officers? May I have your attention, please? The vote is amended as number 3, the author is Vladimir Yavorowski. Please. [[16:15:51]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. Let's move on. Amendment four, Chago. Shago's amendment. Microphone, please. Let's move on then. Amendment 6, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u17	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Well, it's a law that will kick Ukrainian music out of the air at all. If the authors originally planned to limit it by 50 percent on television and 25 percent on radio, now 25 percent on television and radio. So to our musicians, no matter what language they're singing, to our creative people, we can't start anything, because now most people will tell them what the Russians will do for them in Russia, and with their product, we'll capture our national air. I have a question, actually, that's a national security issue, that's what's happening in this room right now: where are all these frightened ministers? Where's the minister of culture? De De Deerteleradio? This is a national matter, why is the Ukrainian Parliament now seeking to strike out Ukrainian music, Ukrainian performers, and everything that's been done here? I insist on voting on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u18	Committee position, committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u19	Thank you. Unfortunately, Viacheslav, you don't understand that in order to fill the Ukrainian air with Ukrainian music, it has to be enough, and it's not there, it's the first time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Secondly, the quota is too high and this quota, first of all, is stifling the Ukrainian radio and you know it. All you've said is it's very populist and the radio network just won't support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, the vote is amended as number 6, the author is Viacheslav Kirilenko. [[16:18:22]] For-129 No correction supported. Amendment 7 Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u21	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I address you. We have before us the example of Radio Melody. Who strangled him? Offshore business of Donetsk origin. Let's keep looking. Take a look at the conclusion of the General Legal Authority, which suggests that this law be sent for further processing. Look at the name of the law, cynicism: changes to the Television and Radio Act. And it's suggested by the legal authorities to delete the words: "as far as bringing into line with the requirements of the European Convention on Transborder Television to the programming concept of speech, because there is nothing in this convention. Finally, Karmazin offers. Carmazine suggests that we write it this way. In general, the national audiovisual product, including musical works by Ukrainian authors or performers, is expected to be at least 70 percent. And Mrs. Olena, I want to remind you that in Israel most of the princes are Israelites. And that's absolutely right. Me, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u22	Please, committee, what a thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u23	The committee insists on its decision not taken from the ceiling. It was taken when this issue was resolved in the working group. And this working group came into it all and even, you'd be surprised, there were representatives of the Ukrainian music field. So this is a balanced compromise. And this option, we insist on our amendment -- 25 percent. And this correction of Carmazin we propose to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u24	Amendment 7 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[16:20:34]] For 128 No correction supported. Correction next. Helmet Dmitry, amendment number 8. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u25	Dmitry Schlemko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Today, there is probably no one in this room to stay out of the country, Europe or any other country in the world, so as not to include television or radio in the evening, and on almost every channel, I suddenly heard Russian, Russian, and, again, Russian, like us, or another language that is not national. One country, as an exception, cannot get rid of this Russian syndrome, is Ukraine. At the same time, the current plank is not less than 50 percent. Over the last period, 80 percent of Ukrainians consider Ukrainian to be their native language. According to the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian language is national. So it's enough to trash the Ukrainian field with Russian garbage. My proposal is to raise the flow of Ukrainian language to 72 percent, as many as Ukrainians consider Ukrainian to be native.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u26	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u27	According to the committee’s decision, this rule can simply lead to the failure of the Ukrainian radio to survive, so the committee insists on its decision. And this amendment is suggested to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u28	8 amendments are put to the vote, the author is Dmitri Schlemko. [[16:22:22]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Amendment 9, Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u29	Vladimir Bondarenko. Certainly, the consideration of such a bill in the Ukrainian Parliament is one of the main proofs that it is far from the Ukrainian Parliament in its essence, because even a violation of such a question in any European Parliament would lead to a constitutional review of the language problem of that State in which such a Parliament exists. Today, people who simply hide in the hall with their smile, which they consider to be delightful, are beaten in Ukrainian. It is far from charming; today it is a rock of Russian chauvinism that has been sown everywhere in Ukraine. He sat down, unfortunately, and in the souls of many Ukrainians, who had been rear-armed to forget that we are Ukrainians, that we are a separate state, that far from all the Ukrainians who are scattered around the world have the opportunity to speak their own language in general. And we create prerequisites for the language of the neighboring people to dominate here, and eventually to add our native language. So I want to reject this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u30	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u31	Once again, I insist that the committee's decision is that the bill, it liberalizes the radio area, is the first. Secondly, this is the Europeanization of our national legislation. And thirdly, this is deregulation, this is the course that the President and his team took as the basis. Thank you. I suggest we take this amendment back.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u32	Puts to the vote the 9th amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:24:19]] For-126 Correction not supported. 10 Amendments, Andrew School, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u33	Is Andrew Schlell refusing? Please, let's move on then. Amendment 11. Oksana Bilozer, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, I just want to emphasize once again that by my amendment I want all the legislative standards that have already been adopted, in particular the Culture Act and the Constitution of Ukraine to ensure the state authority – the Government of Ukraine to exercise its constitutional powers. So the national audiovisual product, its meaning I'm expanding and complementing, thus creating a mechanism for power. I add, "State language and languages of national minorities," so that we don't manipulate you. Because Ukrainian is a national language, and it can hardly be placed with all the 125 languages operating in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u35	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u36	Once again, this law does not apply to the language issue, this is the first. And secondly, if you talk about the Constitution, freedom of choice is the constitutional norm. It is through this bill that we will ensure freedom of choice for our listeners. Thank you. So the committee's decision is to propose a rejection of the 11th amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u37	11 amendments shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[16:26:16]] For 134 Correction not accepted. Amendment 12. Volodymyr Stretovic, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u38	Vladimir Stretović, Christian Democratic Union, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, when voting in the first reading of this bill, a friendly member of the Party of the Regions pressed my button and voted in favour of the adoption of the law in the first reading. To dispel doubts that this could not be the apiori, I made my amendment. If this is about national radio, radio, and in general the formation of a national product, my amendment applies to two thirds, which is at least 60 percent of the products of national audiovisual programmes that should be in the state. So I'm asking you to join me in my amendment, and by doing so, to correct the vote that the representative of the Party of the Regions voted for me, and I don't go against the right of the replica, and I don't call it his last name, because I'm sitting next to it, so to speak, by a pseudo-government majority. And they have done a great evil for me that has proved to be moral.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u39	The committee's decision is that 60 percent of the quota is too high for the Ukrainian radio quota. Because the saying is, "It's not healthy." The committee's decision is to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u40	12 amendments shall be put to the vote. Author – Volodymyr Stretovic. [[16:28:07]] For-137 Correction not accepted. Amendment 13. Yuri Gnatkevich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u41	I'm here. Dear colleagues, I've noticed the interesting thing is that here, Mrs. Reporter says we don't have a national product, we don't have a lot of songs, we don't have a lot of movies in Ukrainian. But when it comes to nights, nights when all people are sleeping, almost all television companies are broadcasting everything in Ukrainian. And that's why I brought this one. And in the daytime, it's not found in this Ukrainian language. And it is my amendment that has to do with it, and I insist on its acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u42	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u43	If you think of your correction as a correct path, it's a path to nowhere, because it's a direct intervention in the economic activity of radio stations. Radio stations, first and secondly, depend on their listeners, so they form their playlists depending on what the listener wants, not what politicians tell him, what time and what they broadcast. Thank you. So the committee's decision is to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u44	The vote is amended by 13, author Yuri Gnatkevitch. [[16:29:38]] For 134 No correction supported. Amendment 14. Andrew Shevchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u45	In introducing my amendment, I want to clarify three points and correct the three lies that appear in the hall. First. This bill does not only apply to radio because quotas for any audiovisual national product are falling. By their own TV channels that can hear us, this law will make you part of the Russian media empire. The second lie is that the working group supported the text of the bill. That's not true. The working group did not support or approve the decision. And the performers who were there were harshly opposed to this bill. The third position that we're allegedly bringing our legislation into line with European practice. That's not true. There is nothing in the European Convention that would result from this law. Each European country protects its own market, from 40 to 50 percent for a national product or for a European product. Dear colleagues from the Party of Regions, know that this law takes you to a Ukrainian journalist, a television operator, a Ukrainian producer, a director, and a performer. I urge you not to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u46	Please take the seat of the committee, Helen Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u47	Thank you. Actually, Mr. Andrew, I'm very impressed. You didn't take part in the task force, so you don't know what happened there and what decision the task force made. This is the first time. Secondly, the bill actually applies not only to radio, but to this quota, the Ukrainian radio suffered the most. You just strangled him. This is the first time. The second is that it responds to what does not fit European practice. If Mr. Shevchenko doesn't know, I'll remind him that 50 percent of the European product, which includes Ukrainian. If you don't know, I'll help you. And there's more. As far as the work of the working group is concerned. In a month, we weighed all the options, five of them. But in general, we only came up with one -- to save 25 percent. The first option was going to be hard - 0. So you don't have to tell stories here for journalists and operators in order to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u48	Puts the vote to the vote. Just a minute. Well, this discussion is going with the author of the amendment. Well, please. Amendment 14 of Andria Shevchenka is put to the vote. All the lines are in the end. [[16:32:29]] For a hundred and Correction not accepted. 15th Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u49	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Think about what you are offered. You're offered a purely lobbyist version, totally lobbyist. Read the findings of the General Legal Office, where you are told about a reduction in the share of the national product. I mean, what's done is done in Ukraine! What's not clear?Oh, my God! Not in any language, but produced in Ukraine, Mrs. Olena! That's a terrible accusation I'm about to make! In radio programs, I suggest that the music works of Ukrainian authors and performers, i.e. authors and performers, should be at least 70 percent of the total weekly volume of speech. That's when we would have made sure that at the opening of the Olympics, no $500,000 would have been spent on one of the cellulite singers, from whom I didn't get any satisfaction, excuse me! And you spent that money!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u50	I have to tell you, fellow dignitaries, it's very hard to get through the pleasure screen. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u51	The position of the committee is unchanged, we propose to reject the amendment as well as the previous one. And for Mr. Carmazin, I want to say that, you know, for radio, the only criterion is the quality of music and the taste of the listener, not our political preferences.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u52	The vote is amended by 15, the author is Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u53	Please back up! [[16:34:37]] For 128
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u54	For 128. No correction supported. Correction 16, Dmitri Schlemko. Please, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u55	More than once in the room, it has been raised that today the law that makes everything that is Ukrainian worse cannot dictate the conditions of the Ukrainian part of the room, which does not represent most of the Ukrainian nation. So we say again and again that this law needs to be rejected and all the amendments that are rejected need to be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u57	The committee's decision on 16 amendments is to reject, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u58	The vote is amended by 16, the author is Dmitri Schlemko. [[16:35:47.]] For-126 Correction not supported. Vladimir Yavorowski, Amendment 17, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, you understand the position of our reporter very well. If they don't listen to us, I'd like to quote a few words for you to quote as well as to me, just a very talented author of many songs, which by the way is both Russian and Ukrainian, Jurka Ribczynski. Remember him "And on that shore," remember his song about how a young soldier takes his friend to the shooting, it's amazing songs that you can be proud of. He says, "And Bondarenko once said, "He said, like us, we should be at the cemetery." quote: "Is there a Ukrainian modern song?" This person is asking if there is a song. I want Mrs. Bondarenko, as a philosopher with a higher world, to say that the "Cremile chair" of a woman's kind is not a man's. Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, I, the only thing I ask of you, let's bring a conversation into this constructive river. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u61	17th Amendment. The committee's decision is to propose a rejection. And as for what Mr. Yavorowski said, I'm going to remind my countryman, Vasil Stus, "The hour of the free maple, their time, their time." Remember that. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u62	Once again, I urge all of you, dear colleagues, let's essentially talk. Vote 17 of Vladimir Yavorowski’s amendment. [[16:37:42]] For 131 The decision is not taken. Paul Silent, Amendment 18. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u63	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a distinguished reporter, I have the suspicion that this is, indeed, a lobbyist absolute bill, and all those standards that have been written are well paid for them. And I hope that we will find out later why this was done, why it was ruined. The entire information space is being reassembled. I suspect it's one plan of action. First, we're being pushed into the ruble zone, written a joint history textbook with Russia, with the Minister of Education Tobacco, and now the information space is completely absorbed. I wrote a tolerance standard of at least 50 percent, and I rejected your committee. It's a completely existing norm. I urge you to be aware of what you will be endured, endured, destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u64	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u65	The committee's decision on the 18th amendment is to reject. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u66	18 amendments shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[16:39:22]] For 116 No correction supported. Viacheslav Kirilenko, 19th Amendment Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u67	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine! Dear colleagues and respectful listeners and viewers! It is not even against the Ukrainian - language product, but it is against all the natives. Now the quota is being cut against both Ukrainian-speaking performers, both Russian-speaking and Hungarian-speaking, and Romanian-speaking, all those who are born and created here are doing music, song, television programs. This law is directed against them. So it's uncomfortable for the audience because they won't hear anything of their own, the musicians won't be comfortable, because none of the young people will get into radio rotation, it's convenient for the foreigners who keep the Ukrainian network radios. That's why I don't have a question for Mrs. Helen, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question for you. I'm asking you not to vote in general right now, and until the Minister of Culture arrives here, the head of the State of Derteradio, and to express the official position of the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian government, on this anti-Ukrainian issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u68	Please. One minute, allow me to complete the formulation of your recommendations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u69	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I ask that until the Minister of Culture and Head of the State and officially the whole of Ukraine take their stand on this blow against the Ukrainian musicians, we have not voted in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u70	Thank you. Please, Olena Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u71	The committee’s decision regarding 19 amendments is also rejected. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u72	I bet on the vote of Amendment 19. Please vote. [[16:41:26]] For-142 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment to the 20th, Chago. He's refusing? 21st Amendment, Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u73	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. All my suggestions for this project are that you don't have to accept it at all. We have to leave behind previous standards that weren't very conducive to Ukrainian native culture, including music, but they were still balanced. With regard to today’s proposals, imagine that there are only 25 percent left in the independent state for the domestic product — a quarter all the time, well, what is such as the colonial, occupying policy of today’s government? John Juba has a book like this, and it's been published until she's 20 years old: "From the blacks of the early 20th century to the early 20th century Ukrainianophobics of the early 20th century." So here's an example taken by Juba.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u74	Please, the committee. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u75	As for the 21st amendment of the Kosovo People's Deputy, the committee's decision is to reject. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u76	I'm betting on the 21st vote, the author is Mikhail Kosov. [[16:43:26]] For 139 No correction supported. 22nd Amendment, Oksana Bilozer. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u77	Our reporter keeps talking about the committee's decision. made one or the other decision. The point is, I have the impression that it was legitimate for the committee to decide whether it was a quorum on the committee. Because no chairman who made his amendments today was invited to meet with this committee. And so it's strange why only one amendment was adopted is yours, which actually affected 50 percent change by 25 percent. You even had 50 percent of your eyes muzzled because you want to take the whole Ukrainian air out of the Ukrainian soul. It won't work, it won't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u78	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u79	As for some accusations that do not match reality. On October 5, a committee of nine members of the eleven attended. One of them was on a field trip and one of them just didn't show up, so I'm not gonna call it. Of the nine six pro's. That's why you're accusing me. You look at the papers first, and then there's something to say in the hall. As for the 22 revisions. Committee Decision: Reject. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u80	There are 22 amendments to the vote, the author is Oksana Bilozer. Please vote. [[16:45:07]] For-143 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Bondarenko, Amendment 23.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u81	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Of course, what we're doing today is very good, because Ukrainian citizens will still feel who's here and what's being done here. If it were in the Russian Duma, or the joint meeting of the Russian Duma and the Ukrainian Council, then perhaps the voices would be disintegrated because they have more people in their minds. Today, unfortunately, we have a silent vote on a separate part that does not express its opinion, either in favour or against. We have some very interesting people here, who will then be analyzed by their vote, who refuse to vote on this issue, and we have some position expressed by the opposition and, in particular, "Timoshenko Street." We want Ukraine to be Ukraine. I think that the President who will then sign this law, if, God forbid, he passes, he will not have words to justify this position, because the vote that will take place today and, unfortunately, may become the last vote in the history of Ukrainian language in Ukraine destroys him as President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u82	As for the 23 revisions, 73 percent of the total. The volume of speech is just a killer norm for Ukrainian radio. This is where journalists or those working on Ukrainian radio simply lose their jobs. So the committee's decision is to reject 23 amendments. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u83	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 23, by Vladimir Bondarenko. [[16:47:10]] For-123 Correction not supported. Amendment 24, Andrew School, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u84	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I actually want to appeal to you, too, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, because I'm sure you personally understand that, of course, to intervene in such a fine sphere as culture should be very careful. And now that there's 50 by 50 on Ukrainian air, when you turn on the radio, you won't hear the Ukrainian song as often as it should be. Now she's being asked to clean up. I'm not sure, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that you will personally include and listen to the "Vladimir Center, the North Wind" or the "Golden dome" that they have on their chests. I'm sure they like to sing the piano. So I ask you to remove from sin any further voting these amendments and this law. Because Ukrainian culture cannot be raped, Ukrainian language cannot be raped. You can't, you've tried, you've raped the Ukrainian soul. Please don't do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u85	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u86	As for the 24 revisions. The committee's decision is to reject. And as for some of the MPs' remarks, I want to say that some people mix culture with show business. And if anyone wants to continue listening on the Ukrainian Council of Sleeping Underpants or singing rector, then I feel for these people. We want to listen to good music.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Wait, that's not all. We're still on our way. Dear colleagues, it was Andrew School that addressed me. I'll tell you that I don't listen to any radio, I'm too sorry. I read serious books. That's what I call it. Along with my position, I demonstrate it by voting. That's what I said. I can't take it off, I'm going to propose a review of the Rules, because in the process of dealing with the issue, I don't have the right to take it off. That's why I'm voting on Amendment 24, author of Andrew School. Please identify yourself. [[16:49:46]] For a hundred and No correction supported. Correction 25, Volodymyr Stretovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, this amendment resonates with my previous amendment about 60 percent of the total weekly speaking volume of Ukrainian authors born in Ukraine. But I'm drawing your attention to two things. First, a detailed analysis of the amendments showed that the committee did not take into account any amendments proposed to this bill, except editorial ones. And secondly, ignorance is astounded by a professional reporter who does not comment on the substance of the amendment, but simply speaks of the committee’s decision. That's what I'd like to say in Russian for her, "Why don't you guys sit down, and you don't want to talk to the rapporteurs," it's time to get off the podium and off the political arena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u89	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u90	The committee's decision from October 5th to 25th is to reject. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 25th amendment, the author is Vladimir Stretovic. And once again, I call for mutual restraint. [[16:51:11]] For 139 No correction supported. Amendment 26. Yuri Gnatkevich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! I'd like to argue with Mrs. Helena, who says, "that this was an interference in the business." Language, culture is not exactly an economic activity. Unless all of the Supreme Council's legislative work is our intervention in life in the country, including economic and commercial activities. Dear colleagues, you should pay attention to the television channel "Ukraine." It's a pretentious name, there's nothing Ukrainian about it. Even August 24th, they broadcast Kirkorov and everything from Moscow. I want to protest. The point is that there are masses in Ukraine: soloists, duets, trio, choirs, chapels, groups, groups of people's self-activity -- there's something to record and there's something to show. However, today’s authorities have declared war on us Ukrainians simply in Ukrainian language and culture and nations. You want war!? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u93	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, you sometimes care so much about people that you forget that this bill is about people and people. Let them choose which music to listen to. As for the 26 amendments of the National MP Gnatkewich, the Committee's decision is to reject. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u95	Twenty-six amendments are put to the vote, the author is Yuri Gnatkevitch. Please vote. [[16:53:00]] For-140. No correction supported. Amendment 27. Andrew Shevchenko, microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u96	Colleagues, I will no longer speak of the legal side of the medal. Everyone got it. We have a unique case where members of the Ukrainian Parliament are in favour of withdrawing protection from the Ukrainian worker and manufacturer. Maybe because someone else's "smokin' panties" is better than our "smokin' panties," or how do you figure that out? About the political side of the medal. Look, we've always had a little bit of a consensus in the room. We did not touch on language issues or questions that were related to them so that we would not be distracted because we knew it was conflicting. Why do we have to walk away from this now? Because there's a small number of our colleagues, which is personal ambition -- at any cost, this law should be extended. I'm talking to my colleagues from the Party of Regions, why should this cause you to have the reputation of your entire team and of the entire Ukrainian Parliament? We don't know what's gonna happen next. The President will then veto this bill because it directly violates the 11th article of the Constitution, where the state has to take care of Ukrainian culture. I call on all the factions of Parliament not to vote in favour of this bill, because this is the beginning of a new ideological war.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, I'm going to bring to your well-known content the amendment of Andrew Shevchenk, because he talked about everything but the amendment he didn't say. It comes from the fact that, given that a quota of 25 per cent is being established by law, it continues to propose, starting with the second year of the law, the quota increases by 7 per cent annually until the minimum quota for Ukrainian authors and performers set by Chapter I of this Act is reached. That's a nice offer. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u98	The committee's decision on the 27th amendment is to reject, please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, one minute, I'm putting to the vote the 27th Amendment of Andrew Shevchenk. Please vote. [[16:55:04]] For 132 It's not accepted, I'm sorry. 28 amendments. Counted. 29 Amendment, Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u100	Dear voters, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have amended this bill to be put into effect, if it is accepted, since 2015. I'm ready to cut. I'm ready to even do it by 2013. I think by 2013, we'll have this anti-Ukrainian horde swept away and the sky will be cleared over Ukraine. And the last thing I wanted to say was that this is the last amendment. I was petrified by my lady, Basil Stus was sitting behind bars, and he had a moral right to speak to those who were at large. And he said that about Pavlicka, about Drach. Imagine for one moment if Basil Stus appeared in this room, what would he say about you, a representative of the anti-Ukrainian horde, what would he say about you? I wouldn't leave a stone on the stone!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u101	Please, Olena Anatolyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u102	Someone was screaming about Stu. You didn't have to write reports on it to the KGB. [[B in m in s a l in]] As for 29 amendments, the committee's decision is to reject. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, Amendment 29 calls for the law to take effect on January 1, 2015. Yeah? I'm putting her to the vote. Please make a decision. [[16:57:02]] For-142 No correction supported. Please, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u104	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now considered the amendments that have been rejected. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, amendment number 5 is counted by the committee, although it is both anti - Ukrainian and anti - Russian. Because both Russians and Bulgarians and Hungarians and Romanians all live in Ukraine. And here, Mrs. Olenna is going to write this thing down. At least 25 percent of the total number of speakers of each television organization should be a national audiovisual product. So 75 percent is not a national product produced outside Ukraine! Where's he going? Then maybe you should set this 75 percent? That's the first one. And the second. This clearly violates the budget, the rules of the budget code, and affects the income part of the budget. And that's why such a law can't be passed. It is a purely lobbyist, anti - Ukrainian, anti - Russian, anti - Belarusian, anti.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, well, Viacheslav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! This amendment number five, just mentioned by a colleague of Carmazin, changed even the substance of the bill. Of the 50 percent, 25 percent of the national audiovisual quota is left. It's about a product of any kind -- it's beating at everything -- it appears to be, it's written, it's singing Ukrainian, it's Russian, it's Hungarian, it's Romanian, it's here, it's in Ukraine. That's where the kick comes in. Since the committee has taken this amendment into account, I insist that it be confirmed now. And we're going to see who acts as country performers and what goes against them as foreign performers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u107	Please, Olena Anatolyevna, please microphone. 5th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u108	As for this offer. You'll look at the board when we vote in general, and you'll see the result. It's about the bill. I'm going to remind you that the beginning of this bill is 0 percent of Ukrainian radio and television products. Compromise was found at 25 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u109	Ladies and gentlemen! That's how I vote. What are you yelling at? Dear colleagues! This was about, well, attention, and Helen Anatolyevna said that, one minute, well, what are you! What's more, yes, 25 percent is going to be a national audiovisual product. Maybe so. Compromise and write is Ukrainian? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, dear colleagues, I'm looking for compromise, I'm not comfortable, I'm forced to put this amendment, which is supported, into the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 5 of Helen Bondarenko, who's listed, needs confirmation. Please determine by vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:00:48]] For 231 Correction accepted. The factions, please. () [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 175, "BUT - "The Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense" – 1, the Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, the People's Party – 20, the non-fractional – 9. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Your Honor, please. It sounded a few times. () [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm begging you! [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u110	Calm down! Dear colleagues, there were several suggestions. The first is clearly, and this is so, it's regular for the committee to accept in the second reading and in general. The second suggestion was to put aside all circumstances and draw the conclusions of experts, including. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u111	Well, one minute!...and including the Ministry of Culture. Given that these two proposals are formed, I would ask that you be determined when making a decision. The first proposal will be to vote on the second reading and generally as a law. In view of the fact that the Chief Legal Authority has concluded that the bill requires substantial further elaboration and re-reading. If the first proposal is not supported, it will automatically be proposed to re-read the second reading with the necessary additional conclusions. Do you understand the suggestions? I'm voting on the first proposal to adopt a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a law. [[Registration number 6342]] [[on the application of the requirements of the European Convention on Transboundary Television to the programming concept of language]] [[Registration number 6342]] I remind you, the conclusion of the legal system is negative. Please be sure. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:03:03]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! The factions, please. Region Party – 180, "BUT – Fatherland" – 1, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 9. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues, we have now. Andrew Shevchenko. He's got the right to a replica and we're going to keep moving. Only Andrew Shevchenko, his last name. And I, my esteemed colleagues, am bound by the Rules. Dear colleagues, as far as Lithuania is concerned, look at the board as Lithuania votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, don't worry. Dear colleagues, you've only learned to scream shame, you see as the result of the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u112	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Now I want to address not only the Ukrainian Parliament, but everyone watching the broadcast. What happened was trying to put the Ukrainian market in the hands of the Russian show business and the Russian media business. I want to go to the country right now and calm down, and I haven't been able to do that in the last century, decades and recent years, and I'm not going to be able to do that in the future. I'm absolutely sure this story isn't over. I urge the President of Ukraine to exercise his veto power with regard to this law, and let him take note of the 11th article of the Constitution, which obliges the State to take care of Ukrainian culture. We should definitely go back to the Ukrainian Parliament Hall. And I urge us to preserve the status quo that is in Ukrainian law and in Ukrainian society. We should not be further distracted by this subject. We have to take care of the Ukrainian performer, the Ukrainian producer, the Ukrainian director, the Ukrainian journalist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, when preparing and submitting for signature to the President of Ukraine, will also be given the conclusion of the General Legal Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to consider draft laws with you, five of them, on the election of Ukraine's national deputies. At the same time, let me inform you, dear colleagues, here I'd like to listen so that we don't have a disturbance and another problem. Dear colleagues, we have held a number of meetings of the Conciliation Council to find understanding and compromise on this sensitive issue. As a result of the long-standing discussions, we have agreed and put forward for your consideration such proposals as the need to create a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare a draft Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies and conduct this work by November 17th. At the same time, it is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return to the first reading of the five bills registered. It is proposed that the commission's composition be chosen by Ruslan Knazević, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the deputy head of the commission – the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Adam Martinyuk, members of the commission, I will read only the names and call what faction represents: Zabarski Vladislav, Kozub Alexander, Olijnik Vladimir, faction of the Party of the Regions, Spinov Dmitro, faction of the Party of the Regions, Kožemjakin Andriy and Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, and Podgorny Sergey, faction of the "Clock of the Yulia Timoshenko – "Batkovščina", Mosesik Vladimir Romanovic, faction of "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", Gordijenko Sergei Volodymyrovich, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine; Greenewetsk Sergei, faction of the People's Party; Traduk Mikola, group of "Reforms for the Future". At the same time, we agreed with you, your honors, that way. [[One minute!]] We searched and tried to compromise. There were various proposals: 50 by 50 plus, neutral chairman - this proposal is not supported. We finally agreed that there would be a committee of 13 people, that the commission would be headed by a representative of the opposition. At the same time, we agreed, fellow honourable Members, that if the commission is unable to produce a draft document, 17 numbers we will be considering all the bills that we should send to read again. We agreed that we would adopt such a draft decision as a determination, not discuss the matter in substance. But at the same time, based on this information, if factions want to express their point of view, we will have this discussion. After that, dear colleagues, we agreed that by one vote we would take decisions on the creation of the TSC and on the sending of drafts for re-reading, but then we would form these two separate decrees so that we could have mutual understanding and support here. Therefore, it is suggested that, honourable colleagues, discuss the matter with such a procedure. First, allow factions to express their views on the agreements reached within 3 minutes. Then I'm going to read the draft decree that we agreed on. Then we vote on this draft regulation, but as a result, if there is a positive vote, two decisions will be drawn up: the first, the creation of the TSC and the definition of the tasks of the TSC, and the second, the re-reading of the five bills registered. Who is in favour of this procedure, please vote. [[17:10:24]] For 377 Decision taken. I'm asking the authorized representatives of the factions to sign up for a statement that they want from the factions. Names of the national MPs, please. And from the groups, I apologize, absolutely. Alexander Blackwolf. Mikola Martinenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u114	Thank you. Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished national deputies, we have recently had a discussion that there is no valid law on elections to the Supreme Council. In fact, that is not the case, we understand and remember well that democratic elections were held under this law in 2006 and 2007. And by the way, the Party of Regions won both of these elections. We have been standing in positions until recently that the law cannot be changed in principle. What kind of painting do we have today? To date, five bills have been introduced. There is no such thing as opposition to the factions of the bill, there are individual opinions of individual national MPs. There is a bill that is signed, including by the leaders of the majority factions. This bill is also unacceptable from our point of view, because it contains a change in the principle of the electoral system, it's the first, and it provides for a lot of rules that allow for a fake election. Next, how should we proceed? In principle, we have to focus on democratic elections, this is the only way for the country to develop in a civilized way. We must protect the voice of every electorate by law. That's why we made a compromise today, which was made by the Head of the Supreme Council about the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission and we do. A special commission, excuse me, and we have hope that's going on. Up to 17 numbers, we'll get a document that will satisfy our citizens first. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u115	Oleg Zarubinski, faction of the People's Party, next will be John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u116	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! In fact, the controversy is pretty artificial around the electoral system, it's just a cover-up. Covering up real specific political interests. Interests that are realized through the electoral law. Not long ago, many sociological studies began to be published. On the one hand, they have a propaganda and advocacy effect, and on the other hand, they produce what the electoral system binds to. how it responds to the current status of the rating and how this electoral system can best help convert this rating into coming or returning to power. That's the point. So when it comes to a better electoral system, worse is a lie! One system is better for one political power, coming out of its schedules, and the other is better for others. If that were not the case, respectable ones, there would not be such a situation if there were no two equal electoral systems in two countries. None. They're all different. There are 60 countries in which a proportional system, I know what I'm talking about. There are even more countries where the majority, the absolute majority electoral system, is Germany, Spain, Italy, Hungary, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Georgia, where the system is mixed. And it's not about the electoral system at all. The fact is, it has led to a real democratic will. And so the faction of the People's Party agrees and is supported by the algorithm proposed here by the Head of the Supreme Council. when the electoral system, which is essentially a tool to realize the interest of coming or returning to power, was as transparent and as transparent as possible and as compromising as possible. And that's why, for example, when there were committee hearings about a bill that was passed by a number of people's deputies, most of them, and there were real, serious suggestions on where the problems were being reported, that was the way to go. So you have to look at where there's gaps, where there's legal co-operations in the bill, and not say what some people are going to say right now is that you have to stop on this system that there is. I understand that. Keep saying this, for today it is beneficial for specific political forces. Once again, this is an absolutely specific political interest. And that's why talking about national happiness and democracy here is just a patsy of the eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u117	Ivan Kirilenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Taras Cnerwell will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u118	I'd like to sign under the words of a colleague of mine who just spoke. I am always very pleased to hear the talk and, indeed, to give what is due. But what would my esteemed colleague say if he was told about last Sunday's election in the Brovarsky district of Kyiv to the circuit board election? A representative of the Fatherland Party has gained 3.5 times more than a representative of the power party. What they did to this young man: press, finish, choke, whatever they did, man didn't give up. And then they found a decision: they went to court, and the court decided to cancel the election because there was little light in the office. So you can dress in beautiful forms, say beautiful words, cheat things, or so or so. The reality is what they are. Too bad. These are the realities that are now being demonstrated in the Brovarsky region in the pre-election elections, and it was all over the place, sorry for the Russianism, in the local elections. All of this was passed successfully into the law that was presented today by representatives of the ruling coalition. Two warnings, no court-martials and no investigation. Guess who will be warned twice? The Commission shall meet with any number of members of the commission. At the local elections, the opposition was unoccupied and simply not invited, decided what they wanted. At the polling stations, it's not real, it's not in the district. Guess twice where the polls are going to be declared invalid? Do you understand what this is about? That's why the whole civilized world has exploded, and that's why a civilized Europe, which monitors us as members of the Council of Europe, as chairman of this structure, as a country that breaks through its window to Europe, is looking at whether there is a rule of law here. Yesterday, Julia Timoshenko made it clear and once again stopped all the insinuations that we were speculating about the trial around her. She said yesterday, "The victim's freedom for the freedom of the Ukrainian people, which goes to Europe and doesn't stop this process, the Ukrainian people go to Europe." And if the Council of Europe Elections Act is also monitoring through the Venice Commission, friends, let's stop this disgrace that's written in the laws that are being proposed, especially the one that goes basic. That's why we requested the Temporary Special Commission, which should write a clean letter of democratic law agreed upon, worked together with the opposition. This is the only law that needs to be introduced into the hall. We will work on this committee, no one will block or ignore its meeting. But this is where the law has to get 400 votes in the room. The future of the Ukrainian people is not necessary. His future in Europe is civilized. Let's write a civilized law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u119	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future. Alexander Ephraim will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u120	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! For the sake of electoral legislation, our parliamentary group comes out of several postulates. One of them is probably the most important: not even the electoral system itself, not the electoral law itself, but the law being enforced to ensure that the rules that give free citizens the right to be free citizens are not ignored by one another and are not trampled on by the legal nihilism of others. That's what's most important. As for the electoral system and the basic parameters laid down in the electoral law, they were laid down in the law that was registered by the majority. And so this law was also signed by the leader of our faction Igor Rybakov. So our position on these basic parameters has already been expressed. There's a number of problems in this law, and there's the possibility of taking a candidate in the state by two observations, and the issue of the quorum and so forth. Clearly, this indicates that the law would require further work and serious work. We were ready to work in the normal regulatory setting, but there are two shades. One nuance, which is necessary for us to go to the drafting of this law by all means of Parliament, including really those people who have good and knowledge and understanding in all factions -- and this is a very positive moment. And the second point that concerns the decision of the Venice Commission, which has really been taken, not for the sake of harm, but for the benefit of our interests, our future interests and our electoral system. It refers to the fact that electoral legislation should give citizens and the political forces of Ukraine the sense that it has been adopted by consensus, by common, by general political and by public consensus. And so the creation of this commission, the ability to work together on this law, to take into account all the positions, to discuss all of these positions is really the step that is needed when moving to Europe. That's why our parliamentary group has decided to support an unannounced draft decision to create a special commission for the drafting of electoral legislation. The only thing that really worries us is that working in this group can come down on this committee, come down instead of doing as much detail as possible where the devil is hiding, these moments that could be forging, disrespecting the will of the electorate, instead the debate will start again on the basic issues of electoral legislation. We understand that the basic issues of the electoral system. We understand that the electoral system is a general position that has already been shown in this room, which still dominates. Obviously, it can be better or worse, but it will still be a mixed system. And we would very much like the Special Commission to be primarily involved in proving all the details in the text of the law that make the risk that even the best electoral system can be disregarded by the voting process. That's why we're voting for the ruling, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u121	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u122	But we call on the members of the working group, and this is confirmed by our representative on this committee, first and foremost, to pay attention to the details that make up the electoral law. It's not politics, it's electoral law that has to be the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u123	Thank you. Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u124	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, had a lengthy discussion in the Conciliation Council in the office of the Speaker of Parliament before coming to this rostrum. And you know, when I really listened very carefully to my colleagues, who, in contrast, maybe the emotional discussions we had earlier, very narrowly and very carefully, I thought it brought us together. And I think we are united today, not even by law, but by respect for our State. Ultimately, we must come to the point that we ourselves should start respecting ourselves and our State. We must signal to our society that it is respected by the people who live in our State and ultimately that we are respected outside our State. That is why the faction of the Party of the Regions has made compromises offered by our colleagues. We agreed that... we are well aware that there is a majority in the room today that is ready to make a decision. But we don't need that over our knees. We want the elections to be fair and transparent. The first step is to adopt an appropriate bill to bring the majority together in this room. We understand that not all will be united. But the fact that most of us, I'm more than sure, we can get to that. And that's what the vote can show when we work on the commission. That is why we supported the establishment of a commission. That all the draft laws currently in existence would be reviewed by specialists in that commission. We supported the fact that a representative of a qualified professional and a decent person would lead this commission today. And I hope that the work on this legislation will be the first cornerstone of the unity of our State. And the unity will begin with this very hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u125	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u126	Dear colleagues! We voted in favour, the Communist faction. But we are not idealizing this situation because we are realistic. And we understand very well why this fight is taking place in the hall. Again and again, I would like to remind my distinguished colleagues of the following. Who ever created this atmosphere when each election is accompanied by what is the most negative assessment of the law in force at that time and tries to make any changes? And what consensus are we talking about today? Are we talking about the consensus of large capital among ourselves? Or consensus with the people of Ukraine? That's the question and what it's all about. Because in all these years of Ukraine's so-called independence, neither the people of Ukraine nor the simple voters have introduced everything that is in the law today. It's a ban on veterans from voting at home. They're hard-core coupons. It's a voter bribe. These are the helicopters you invented. And don't do any magic around here or idealize what you're talking about. Because it was you who invented the helicopters. It was you who forced the judiciary to hold the third round of elections. It is you who have done everything to ensure that the so-called early elections are held in 2007. Because you were forcing the President, not President Yushchenk, to do such things. We are faced with the intimidation of the people of Ukraine by blackmail and bribery. And all of this is accompanied by so-called independence. Forget about the concept of democracy at all, gentlemen, you've trampled democracy long ago, and it's gone, and don't try to tell us what kind of fighters you are for the people today. The main task that lies before us today is to protect the people of Ukraine and to protect the people of Ukraine from any inadequacy that you have imposed on the people of Ukraine. We have achieved this: the budget of Ukraine, an independent State is called, cannot be adopted without recommendations and return without sanctions from the International Monetary Fund. Well, it's a disgrace to Ukraine! It turns out we're undervalued! And that's what they all brought in after the unconstitutional coup in 1991 and when the nationalists in Ukraine came to power. They're a low-cost policy and they've just introduced us in Ukraine. I believe that such decisions, including when it comes to the need to implement the decision of the Venice Commission, I believe that this is also a policy of “low-cost”. And last but not least, respectable colleagues. If we want to do good for the people of Ukraine, the first thing I ask you to do, and here the representatives of large capital, do not interfere with the people of Ukraine's choice, do not prevent them from coming to the elections, do not pursue them in elected polling stations! In the west of Ukraine, when everyone left, we voted 120 per cent in the west. Don't make the church make it, after they've said a prayer, it means it's morning, and at two o'clock everyone comes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u127	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u128	And when we're forced to, let's say the church intervened in these same things, let's say, simple things. Therefore, respectable comrades and those here who hear us only grant the right to the people of Ukraine elections to be truly democratic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u129	Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very large request. In order for us not to take our arguments to the temporary special committee, it was as if we had made an agreement with you, but it was already said in the presentations that we were in a somewhat different position. And it's very good that we made such a compromise decision, and let's not take the palm of each other first and say that we demanded creation, there, TSC and so forth. Let's say that I set up one part and another part to find a normal solution with you. So, dear colleagues, let's now take this decision to get the commission to work on a law that would set Ukraine up, not for abroad. We don't have to work to get someone to like us, but to understand and to be sure that this will be a normal law that will allow every person to express his or her point of view and who is or has reason to be elected his or her representative, representative of one or another community. Dear colleagues, let me read you the draft decree, you will listen carefully again. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the preparation of a draft Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian National Deputies. In accordance with part three of article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 85 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine stipulates: First. To form a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to draft the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies. [[Next Temporary Special Commission]] Second item. A temporary special commission to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 17 November 2011 a draft Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian National Deputies. Third. Admitting that the number of members of the Temporary Special Commission is 13 of the Ukrainian national deputies. Meetings of the Temporary Special Commission shall be convened by the head of the Temporary Special Commission or, if the chairman of the Temporary Special Commission, on request, is no less than half of its members, to convene a meeting, as a substitute for the Chairman of the Temporary Special Commission and is entitled to attend most of the National Deputies’ meetings of the Temporary Special Commission. Four. To elect the head of the temporary special committee of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Knazević Ruslan Petrovic, the faction of the "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense", the deputy head of the Temporary Special Commission of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich. Fifth. Select the temporary special commission of such national deputies of Ukraine: Zabarsky Vladislav Valeriyovich, faction of the Party of the Regions, Kozub Alexander Andriyovich, faction of the Party of the Regions, Olijnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich, faction of the Party of the Regions, Spanov Dmitry Juryovich, faction of the Party of the Regions, Kožemakin Andrija Anatoliovich, faction of the "Clock of the Yulia Timoshenko – "Batkovščina", Sas Sergij Volodymyrovich, faction of the "Block of the Yulia Tymoshenko" – "Bátekshkina", Upper Sergei Petrovich, faction of the "Serkulija Timoshenko" – "The Father of the Fathersty", Moses Vladimir Romanovich, faction of "Our Ukraine – The People's Republic of Self-Corporate, "The Triadition of the Triadium of the Voloquidition of the Voloquitium" Six. To re-read Ukraine's draft laws to the Temporary Special Commission: on the election of Ukrainian national deputies, submitted by the Ukrainian people's deputies Blackwolf, Kowal, Taraszuk; [[Registration - 9265]] on the election of Ukrainian national deputies, submitted by Ukrainian national deputies to Ephraim, Sharov, Rybakov, Oljinik, Martinyuk, Kozub; [[Registration - 9265-1]] on the election of Ukrainian National Deputies, submitted by the People's Deputies of Ukraine to Klukkowski, Tomenk, Žebrovski, Uphill and others; [[Registration – 9265-2]] amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, Mr. Jojik, Mr. Costenko, Mr. Zayj, Mr. Davidenko; [[Registration – 9265-3]] "For the election of Ukrainian national deputies" submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Lášk. [[Registration – 9265-4]] Seven. Material and technical, information and organizational support for the work of the Temporary Special Commission to be placed on the secretariat of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. Eight. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that we will adopt this motion by one vote, and when we prepare for signature, we will divide it. In fact, the decision will be to form the TSC and define its tasks, and the second is to refer to re-reading to the TSC the bills that I just talked about. And the last. We agreed that if the commission, due to a variety of reasons and circumstances, is not able to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by November 17 a draft, harmonized bill, then we will have to go back to reviewing those bills that are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was also a position that I'm leading to your well-known, Conciliation Council. So, honourable national MPs, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a Supreme Council decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the preparation of the draft Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies. Please vote. [[17:35:40]] For 383 I'll take the order. Thank you. I think this is the basis for our further coordinated movement. Dear colleagues, I ask the Chief Legal Authority to prepare two statutes for signature. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the issues that we have on the agenda. A draft Law on Seaports (0881) is being announced for consideration. And let's go straight to the amendments so that we can complete this consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u130	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft Law on Ukrainian Seaports, prepared by the Committee on Transport and Communications for Second Reading, is before your attention. The adoption of the law would significantly improve the legislative settlement of domestic port infrastructure. Regrettably, today there is a serious lack of a regulatory framework for regulating port relations with all transport structures, and therefore thousands of legal disputes arise. Work on the Ukrainian Maritime Ports Bill has been under way since 202. The draft was adopted on first reading by the Supreme Council on 10 January 2007, “for” 301 votes. The second reading was formally followed by 373 comments and proposals from 30 people's deputies of all factions. I would like to thank you for helping and participating in the final drafting of the bill of people's deputies, members of the special committee and the authors of the amendments of Gennadia Zadirko, Jury Voropaeva, Jury Morocco, Igor Rybakov, Mikhail Mironenko, Alexei Babourina, Vitalia Barvinenko, Vladimir Josifovich Matveev, Jury Odarchenko and many others. I would also like to thank Deputy Prime Minister Boris Viktorović Kolesnikov, Minister of Infrastructure, for setting up a working group of the Ministry, which has made a number of substantive comments and proposals for the bill. Special thanks to one of the best lawyers in Ukraine, Yuri Anatolievich Karmazin, Ukraine's most active national deputy: he has not made any amendments to our law and has agreed that this law must be adopted. Thank you. I ask, the Committee requests the adoption of this law on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u131	The 2nd Amendment, do they insist on it? Correction. the amendment. What is the correction? Please, the microphone. Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u132	2 revisions, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Environmental Policy proposes in article 1 that the term "marine port" should be deleted from the words "placed on the land, including artificial origin and aquatoria with established boundaries", or that the current Code of Trade Maritime Affairs of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on the Border Regime should be deleted. Thus, the seaport is a state-owned transport undertaking designed to service vessels, passengers, cargoes and ports of territories and waters, as well as the delivery of cargoes, passengers on ships belonging to the port. The point is that if the port wants to expand, according to current legislation, it has to work on certain projects, harmonize them in accordance with the established law, and make sure that they are in line with the environmental services of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u133	This is the 4th amendment that was partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u134	Yes, this amendment is partially counted because the committee voted in favour of Amendment No. 3 of Morocco. So if you insist on your own, it is partially reflected. Mostly your request was granted, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a 4th amendment for the author's insistence on the need to take it fully into account. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:41:07]] For two. Correction not supported. Vladimir Josephovich Matthew, please, about the amendment. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u136	I mean not my amendment, I have an approach to the organization and consideration of this law. The Comparative Table has not yet been published electronically on the Supreme Council website. The last thing I saw was at 3 p.m. It hasn't been published yet. It could just be said that that's what it is. But the difference between what was published a year and a half ago, and the current table being distributed, is almost 70 amendments to the Ukrainian people's deputies, who are unknown from where they came from, not known how they came from, including from deputies who have long been non-deputy. That's the first one. Second. It is also important that we have hidden the consequences of this law from people. For example, many in this room do not know that the terminals they build will be absorbed by seaports and will cease to compete with seaports. I would therefore like to publish the table first and then consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u137	Dear colleagues, you've been given the charts. The committee, I'm starting to think that he's officially considered this bill one last time in 6.07.2011, of course, there aren't many deputies who have previously amended it. There's your draft Guide to re-read. But according to the Rules, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support the committee's proposal, then we will vote on your proposal. Let's move on to the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u138	May I answer Vladimir Josephovich? You know, the law is nine and a half years in the Supreme Council, and it's been reviewed repeatedly. Your amendments accounted for 90 per cent and all others, if you wanted, the most recent meeting of the Committee, had to come to the meeting of the Committee and make proposals. But I'm telling you once again, all of your amendments, there are a lot of them, more of them, they're accounted for 90 percent. That's why I'm asking you to take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u139	Amendment 8 is out of the question. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u140	You have to. Amendment 8. The bill proposes that the term “port area” should be redrafted in such a way that the area becomes both water and land use, which is inconsistent with existing land and water legislation. The proposed revision of the concept of “port area” suggests the introduction of a new object of law in the legal field, but it does not specify the manner in which such an object is to be made available or the legal regime of such use. The Land Code requires the formulation of a State act on land and the establishment of an appropriate regime of use. Under articles 4, 26, 29 and 30 of the Water Code, only the waters of the Single State Water Fund can be used as water. At water facilities, special water use and general water use are permitted only under the conditions established by primary water use for harmonization with the water use and protection authority. The proposed law is not in conformity with this provision of the Water Code. In view of the foregoing, as well as the fact that the port area is reserved exclusively for the administration of seaports.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u141	Please finish your thesis. Let's do it in one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u142	. Only the Cabinet of Ministers (article 9 of the bill) considers that this provision of the draft does not take into account the requirement of articles 19, 92 and 120 of the Constitution for the exclusive regulation of the basics of natural resources. Besides.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u143	Thank you. Thank you. Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u144	The matter is that this amendment has been carefully considered and the scientific amendment of Morocco, which has been perfectly expanded and is said to have been described. Amendment 3 of Morocco therefore sets out the substance of the matter. But I have to tell you, do you want to know if the Water Fund lands will be returned to those who are renting today? Nobody's got them. The law of retroactive force is not available and no one can take it away from the enterprises of the Nikolaev region. So don't worry. They are satisfied with this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u145	Puts the vote to an 8 amendment and continues the evening session for 15 minutes. The amendment shall be voted on. [[17:46:04]] For-26 Correction not supported. Yes. Amendment 18. Is Krutz's national MP insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u146	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u147	Just a minute. Now it's going to be the 9th amendment. It's partially accounted for. Please, it's Kick-Ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u148	Thank you. The fact is that the 3 amendments of our colleague of the people's MP Moroco, who actually defined all the terms and all the amendments that the people's deputies made, were cancelled or partially taken into account in the third amendment. But what I want to say. Dear colleagues, I would still like to take a serious look at what this article, article 1, is about, including the third amendment, is the formulation of "a part of the land territory of Ukraine," which is, well, not determined what it is. There is no such term at all. In general, this will be a very serious problem as to what this is about taking the land with defined limits. And so I would still like us to give up what part of Ukraine's land territory is in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u149	Please finish your sentence. Let's make a bet in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u150	Well, clearly and professionally separated lands with defined boundaries. Because the legal regime of part of the land territory is not defined by legislation at all, and in our bill it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u151	Thank you. Please, is there anything?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u152	The thing is, amendment number three, she's practically taking your point. And I think if you read any more of the other amendments, you'll understand that your request is granted. I am therefore asking to support the Committee and to leave this amendment as amended by Amendment No. 3 of Morocco.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u153	Amendment number 9 shall be put to the vote. It's partially accounted for. The author insists on taking full account of her. [[5:48:44]] For 1 Correction not supported. Amendment 18, Cruise insists on it? What is the correction? Well, the 10th counts. Are you insisting that she be put to the vote? Kickback microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u154	All right, well, I say no. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u155	Thank you. The circle doesn't insist. Odarchenko? No, it's not. Cossack? No, it's not. Swan? No, it's not. Crook, 26th?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u156	Oh, no? No, thank God. Swan, 31st? No, it's not. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u157	What's that? 27th? Okay. It's considered editorially. Please, Vladimir Josephovich Matthews, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u158	She's not even accounted for. The proposed wording of the definition of a “sea terminal” does not take into account that, to date, sea terminals are located and operate not only in seaports but also far beyond them. For example, in Nikolayev, a joint stock company called the Sea Special Port “Nika-Tera” has been opened. Well, who's the owner of this "Nicka-Tera" here, let them draw conclusions. In such a draft of the bill, only one position of seaport facilities outside the seaport, that is, outside the State enterprise, would deprive existing enterprises of the status of the sea terminal. Such a situation would lead to legal uncertainty and would deprive such enterprises of the freedom to compete with those operators who carried out transport operations with goods and vessels in the seaports. In addition, the proposed definition of a “sea terminal” implies a mandatory presence in such a facility. At the same time, cargo operations and ship servicing may be carried out by other operators'docks, which the bill does not take into account. Therefore, by proposing to accept the amendment, take it into account editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u159	The committee thinks so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u160	The Committee points out that on page 61, please read paragraph 4, paragraph 5 on page 62 and paragraph 4 on page 11: docks may be private, and docks that have already been built by people who have made them for their money remain private. Therefore, the Committee supported the complete treatise contained in Amendment No. 3 of Morocco. I therefore ask for the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u161	Puts to the vote the 27th amendment. [[17:51:47]] For-24 Correction not supported. Amendment 39. Leo Biruk. Is she insisting on it? No, it's not. Bully, 40 repairs. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u162	Thank you. Indeed, it has happened that the 3 amendment has practically taken into account all of our proposals, but for example, I am very concerned by the situation that the central authorities of the executive authorities in the field of transport are the administration of the seaports, which actually closes down all legal, administrative and legal functions. And in fact, all the Ukrainian ports are being built by this State Maritime Administration. I think there is a threat, including, I don’t think, to Ukraine’s international obligations. And by the way, in this case, there may be problems with the adoption of this law in the world at large.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u163	The 40th Amendment of Gennady Kicker is put to the vote. Please. [[17:53:11]] For-0 Correction not supported. Yes, the amendment is next, Leo Biruk. Don't insist. Odarchenko, 52nd? No, it's not. The raven? No, it's not. Third-year-old? No, it's not. Cossack? No, it's not. Yes, Seminoga, 57th. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u164	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u165	Don't insist. Thank you. Yes, Biruk? No, it's not. Yes, Voropeyev, 61st? No, it's not. Right, Treyakov? No, it's not. Greenewic, 68th? No, it's not. Right, Kowzel, 71st? No, it's not. Odarchenko? No, it's not. Raven, 74th? No, it's not. Skin, 75? No, it's not. Asshole, 76. Oh, no? Microphone, please. 76 and 77 are yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u166	Thank you. To be honest, I would just like to draw the attention of the distinguished national deputies to another serious problem. Article 5: "The construction, opening and closing of seaports" provides that ports, the strategy for the development of Ukrainian seaports, will take place exclusively on the land of the reserve fund. Again, there is no legal definition at all. And I think that's what we're actually never going to be able to develop the seaports at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u167	Shall we put this amendment to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u168	Yes, we have to put it to a vote. It's all about how we develop the ports. I just don't want to explain for a long time, given the lack of time. But I think we've already talked. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u169	That's 76 amendments to the vote, Gennady Kick. [[17:55:17]] For two. Correction not supported. 77th Amendment. Are you insisting on her, Gennady the Bull? Oh, no? No, it's not. Thank you. 85th Amendment, Voropeyev. No, it's not. Odarchenko. No, it's not. Mironenko. No, it's not. Scybinethic, 89. No, it's not. Kors. No, it's not. Voropeyes. No, it's not. He does not insist on his amendments at all. Okay. Bully, 94th. microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u170	Thank you. The register of seaports, I'd like to say that any private terminal dock should be limited to the waterfront that is given to the administration of Ukrainian seaports, which is based on the function of maritime safety in this area. The registration of a private dock or sea terminal by the administration of Ukrainian seaports is prohibited. This will enable the integrity of the State’s maritime security system to be maintained. So it seems to me that article 6 should be supplemented by paragraph five of such content that it was sent, because again, well, we are actually going to vote on the law, and then we are going to make new adjustments to it. I don't understand why it couldn't be taken into account right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u171	I'm betting on a vote of 94. [[17:56:57]] For -6 Correction not supported. Zdnovsky, 99th. No, it's not. Yes, Radkowski, 101st. No, it's not. Bully, 102nd, are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u172	Well, no, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u173	No, it's not. Thank you. Yeah, let's keep going. Bully, 106th, are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u174	Yeah. I'd like to talk about the boundaries of the seaport. Borders of the seaport are being established and changed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the submission to the central authority of executive authority in the field of transport on the basis of proposals by the administration of seaports. In fact, I don't think it's a very perfect formulation either, because the boundaries of the seaport are being established and changed according to the actual legislation in agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers. This will allow you to develop again to Ukrainian ports, because article 9, it actually has a kind of, you know, past slow action, which is still going to happen. And we're adopting this law to make the law work, and we're giving the seaports some opportunities for development.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u175	The vote is set to 106 amendments. [[17:58:31]] For two. Correction not supported. Amendment 116, Vladimir Matthews, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u176	Given that the Bill requires specialized services only in seaports and that ownership of port hydrotechnological facilities and navigational equipment of seaports is owned by the State, it would be logical to determine that specialized services include supervision of the condition and contents of port hydrotechnic facilities and navigation equipment of State form of ownership. The content of other forms of property may be carried out by the owners of such facilities. I therefore propose to accept the amendment that has been proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u177	Vote 116 of the amendment. [[17:59:35]] For-25 Correction not supported. Gennady Bully, 119th Amendment. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u178	I understand that in fact Parliament will not support my amendment. But I want to say that they're very right, and unfortunately, they're somehow out of line. Look, we have another problem. The Law provides that seaports are actually monopolies, and that is why the Law on Natural Monopolies applies. But everyone today realizes that ports are not monopolies today. Because very serious development today has been given terminals. And in view of the fact that seaports have lost the mark of the subject of natural monopolies, and it would still be appropriate to take this into account in this bill, because this will make it very much easier for the seaports, which are still state ports today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u179	This is how Amendment 119 is applied to the vote. [[18:00:59]] For 1 Correction not accepted. 130th. Vladimir Josephovich Matthew. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u180	Forgive me, as we know, deep-water canals and docks are a significant competitive advantage in the maritime transport market. The bill is intended to deprive the owners of maritime terminals that are legally transferred to the land of the Water Fund, which is provisionally assigned to water transport lands, of the possibility of maintaining deep-sea areas on designated areas of land. This limitation of the right of land users is, first of all, inconsistent with existing land laws, since the terms of use are determined by the owner. Secondly, the prohibition of in-depth work will place owners and operators of non-State-owned maritime terminals in unequal conditions with operators of other forms of ownership.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u181	What does the committee say about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u182	The Committee points out that the revised Swan Number 123 has been adopted and will support this amendment. Please support the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u183	Amendment 130 shall be put to the vote. [[18:02:26]] For -14 Correction not supported. Yeah, let's move on. Gennady Asshole, 137th, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yes. Now, now, now. Just a minute. Yes. Asshole, 148th. No, it's not. 149th, Vladimir Matthews, do you insist on her? Oh, no? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u184	Terminals, seaports.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u185	Yes. Matthew, 154th. Are you even making corrections? He's taking it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u186	No, we agree that the concept of the law has changed, and I agree with this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u187	Well, I get it. Yes. Then let's move on. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. Let's say so, dear colleagues. Anatoly Seminoga, please, microphone. And then, whoever insists on their amendments, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u188	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have two amendments. I have them in table 138 and table 140, you probably have other amendments to the Committee on Environmental Policy. 138th refers to the waterfront of the port. The committee has considered our amendment in part and considers that the port’s water supply does not belong to the fishing grounds. We agree with that, but at the same time we believe that it is part of the fish industry. The port’s aquarium cannot be separated from the water object. The point is that there is also a fish in the harbor and that fish must be protected as a minimum and that conservation measures must be used in ports to protect the environment and protect the fish and other living things that are being carried out in the port. So I ask you to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u189	An amendment to Anatolia Seminoga is put to the vote. [[18:04:45]] For the Correction not accepted. This amendment was 155. Yes. Dear colleagues, who insists on their amendments? Vladimir Matthew, please tell me what amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u190	Amendment 180.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u191	Yes. There you go. It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u192	Project. Maybe?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u193	It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u194	It's editorial, but not entirely.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u195	It's written that counts completely. Excluding part of article 14. It's spelled "accounted for."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u196	You see, Vladimir Mihajlovich, you can write anything you want, including my registration card number, not 430, it's just 33. I'm just saying, as the committee has done, it's all done. I therefore request that my amendment 180 be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u197	Dear colleagues! Amendment 180 counted. But at the same time, the author suggests putting it on the stand. Please, head of the committee, so what do we do? Or a committee representative. That's how the correction is accounted for. Should we support her or not? _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ But you don't have to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u198	That's how it's counted by the committee. Then we'll break the law. You're gonna have to figure it out. Are we filming? All right, let's shoot. Let's move on. Yeah, 182th. Seminog, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u199	No, I don't insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u200	Thank you. Who else insists on their amendments? I can't see. Oh, Bully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u201	Thank you. I understand that the hall is tired. In fact, I would just like to emphasize the attention of the people's deputies to make you understand. The bill is adopted in a second reading. And by this law, you and I are opening up the privatization of ports. Listen, we're opening up port privatization. If all the ports so far, before we passed this law, were all state-owned, there's actually a chapter about what we're opening up to the privatization of ports. And I think we have to be very responsible and very responsible about this bill. So, I understand that we're tired, we want to go home, but what the consequences of this law will be, it should be taken into account, dear colleagues. And in fact, there are very conflicting things. There are contracts that end, for example, at the port of Odessa. And after privatization, who will continue to rent those docks and those who work there today? I mean, there's going to be a lot of conflicts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u202	Thank you. Vladimir Josephovich, microphone, Matthew
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u203	Amendment 183. An industry law should not regulate the relationship of ownership other than the Civil Code. The acquisition and exercise of ownership of docks and other port infrastructure facilities should therefore be governed in general by the Civil Code. Otherwise, the legal practice could soon be that the relationship of ownership to a particular sector of the national economy would be governed, not by the Civil Code, as an act of force majeure, but by sectoral legislation, which would lead to a balance in economic relations. Please, this is a very important amendment, it's a very important law. And I ask her to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u204	I'm betting on the vote 183 amendment, the author is Vladimir Matviev. [[18:08:51]] For-28 No correction supported. Let's move on. Correction 200, asshole. Did you take it off, yes, by making a warning? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u205	I just understand what I'm doing today, there's no point in doing this, so in general, I think all of my corrections have nothing to do, I take them off, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u206	Thank you. Who else insists on their amendments? Vladimir Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u207	205 amendment. The rejection of this amendment would undermine the rights of the owner of the sea terminals to which the land of water and land of transport was transferred, to the use of leased land and to the self-service of their hydrotechnical facilities. Moreover, the restriction of this group of participants in the maritime freight market is contrary to the constitutional basis of the economic competition law, as different market participants will be placed under unequal conditions of economic activity. Public enterprises can carry out in-depth work and increase their economic potential and improve competitiveness, while all other economic actors do not, which will result in discrimination on the basis of forms of ownership and forms of economic activity. Please accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u208	Microphone. What about the microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u209	I say that this amendment under number 199 is taken into account, so I ask that the opinion of Amendment 199 be supported by the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u210	205 amendments shall be put to the vote. Please make a decision by voting. [[6:10:56]] For-21 Correction not supported. Let's move on. Matthew, 215th. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Let's move on then. 273rd? 273 revisions. Please, the microphone by Vladimir Josephovich Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u211	You know, I don't think there's any point in voting these amendments right now, and I'm going to explain why. There is a conclusion by the Scientific and Expert Committee of the Supreme Council that a number of articles of this law have been adopted at all without first reading, and they change the concept. Therefore, the whole law would have to be made as follows: the fourth column should be made as the first reading and the second reading should be returned to it in two weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u212	I see. Then we don't look at the amendment. What adjustments do you insist on? Who else insists on repairs? Dear colleagues, then there are two positions here that let me make a sound. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. The Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill needs to be revised and re-readed. And Vladimir Josephovich Matthew also made a draft decree to reject the bill on second reading and to send it back to read again. So essentially, the position is in line with the proposal of the General Legal Authority. So I'm going to put first in the vote the proposal to adopt it in the second reading and generally as a law. If not, then the second sentence will be voted on: sending the bill for re-reading. I would like to vote on the committee's first proposal: to adopt the draft Law on Ukrainian Seaports for adoption in the second reading and generally as a law. Please identify yourself. [[6:13:37]] For 266 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the law has been passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m1.u213	Huh? That's a lot, that's a lot. Dear colleagues, we still, unfortunately, do not have the right to make the right decisions, regardless of your unrestrained desire to work. Therefore, the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we will continue our plenary work on Friday, November 4.
