ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:27]] They registered in the 376 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 2 March 2011. Six issues of the agenda have been considered: Two bills have been converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, four have been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, I offer your vase of announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to the minutes of the parliamentary faction meeting of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 March 2011, I inform you that the deputy heads of the Party of the Regions have been elected by the national deputies of Ukraine: Zubanova Vladimir Alexanderovich instead of Makeenka Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich and Samofal Gennady Grigorovovich instead of Ilyashov Grigory. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information about national MPs who are either on official duty or on medical treatment. People’s deputies, such as: Oleg Belarus, Elina Shishkina, Irina Herachenko, Irina Billousov, Mikola Katerinczuk, Mikola Yankowski, Roman Tkac and Alexander Tkachenko I ask that their ballots do not take part in the vote today. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the issues set out in the schedule for the fourth time. At the same time, I was informed that there were no Ukrainian national deputies on board on March 3, 2011. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to make a decision on the holding of parliamentary hearings. In accordance with the Rules, we can hold one parliamentary hearing a month. True, we often violated this procedure. At the same time, we need to enter the right bank in this respect. There are still few days left to hold parliamentary hearings for June and July. At the same time, fellow honourable Members, we now have 13 draft decrees for parliamentary hearings. Perhaps you would support such a proposal that we now vote on 13 draft regulations. Those draft decrees that will get more votes, I mean, two draft regulations, we'll discuss them and we'll make a decision. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Chairman of the Supreme Council or the chairman of the meeting may make such a motion to vote, article 28 of the Rules. Right? Please take 1 minute from the supply fractions. May I have your attention, please? Let's talk about it. Dear colleagues, one minute. Please, from the Communist faction, is there a proposal for organization of work? Is there a faction of the Party of Regions? Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We support the position of the Speaker of Parliament on what needs to be put to the rating vote, since there is a desire for each of the initiators to hold parliamentary hearings on a particular issue. But there are certain limitations, because of temporary resources. So we can only spend two, and the wish is 13. So absolutely democratically, honestly, transparently and publicly, in the presence of journalists, so that they can see that they do not then think something for us, as is often the case, let us put two draft decrees to a rating vote, as you rightly said, and then we will vote in favour of those rulings. We therefore support your proposal: to put to a rating vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u3	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u4	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I have actually counted 12 proposals for parliamentary hearings in the order of the day. I think that all colleagues will agree that parliamentary hearings should be an event in society, should be an event in the Ukrainian Parliament, that it should not be things that are happening every two weeks. Then the very weight of the hearing becomes zero, the resonance of none, the results. So if we're going to figure out a certain part, let's say two, if this allows us to graph our work, then by way of a rating vote, these two have to be defined as the main ones. So this doesn't mean that other proposals are bad, but we need to get out of reality and that parliamentary hearings are, as I said, a serious event in life and in Parliament and in society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u5	Thank you. Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction supports the proposal to hold, indeed, a rating vote now in order to determine whether or not the draft regulations for holding parliamentary hearings are appropriate. We really need to now determine which parliamentary hearings, that is, from which problems we can carry out, and this may be a maximum of two, three decisions that we should now vote on positively. So our proposal is now, indeed, to go through every draft decision and determine which of the questions we have will be discussed at parliamentary hearings. All others can use the already established form of parliamentary action as committee hearings. That's what I need.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u7	Thank you. From the "Reforms for the Future" group Kamchatny, microphone, then Bondarenko. Yeah. Well.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. As you can see what we called for yesterday in a speech from our group, it is now happening in the Parliamentary Hall. I mean, the things that unite us, the things that we have in common and the same vision. As noted in the preceding statements, these questions need to be put to a rating vote, the opinion of all. Let's do this, and our group also supports this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u9	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko. Faction "BUT" – "Paternity".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u10	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Timoshenko, Reforms and Order. Well, I'd like to point out, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that I was in this recording, in a direct recording. I've been missed, don't you see? But I'm not offended. I would point out that among these issues are, in fact, very important and less important. One of the most important issues today is social peace in Ukraine, and when we talk about the relations that have recently been formed in the church environment, I would like to point out that for the first time, the President of Ukraine is not paying attention to the numerous invitations he has made to. For the first time, he does not invite representatives of all denominations other than the Moscow Patriarchate. As a result, the conflict is beginning to erupt in the community and conflicts are already being settled through the capture of churches and so forth. If anyone is interested in such a situation in Ukraine, it is likely necessary to keep it quiet. So the first question to be raised is about the interfaith relations proposed by Javorovsky. Mikola Tomenko is the same thing about education. So these two.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u11	Complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u12	So these two questions I would consider the most important. All others, indeed, at parliamentary, committee hearings, on round tables can be considered or moved on to later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u13	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, then Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Among the issues that are proposed for consideration at parliamentary hearings, including the draft decision that I am the author, to hold parliamentary hearings on the theme “Delivering the threat to Ukraine’s economic security arising from the rise of public debt liabilities”. I want to remind you that by the end of 2010, the amount of Ukrainian debt was almost $55 billion. So I propose that we hold parliamentary hearings so that we can find ways to stop on this wrong path that actually leads the country to the default. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not to deprive me as the author of the decision to report to her public, to report to Parliament in order for people to make informed decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u15	Regarding your project, I'm telling you that the registration sector had no right to register this decision because you're proposing to hold parliamentary hearings on May 4. We have no right to hold parliamentary hearings in May. Yuri Carmazin, please. And I'm drawing the secretariat's attention to the registration of such documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u16	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! Of course, the number of parliamentary hearings that have been set up today shows the attention that deputies are given to them. I would like to ask the question in this way: we have to abide by the Supreme Council Committees Act, to ask the question that there must be committee hearings first and so to be determined, to give the floor to the authors of the initiative. Well, and things like listening to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the Attorney General's Office are absolutely necessary because, you know, in Odessa in broad daylight, the party manager was shot, 12 bullets were fired. What does the Minister of Internal Affairs do? The minister of the interior discusses what is happening to him in the DAI. It's not interesting! What's interesting is how crimes in the state are being discovered today, how explosions are being discovered, is that we have to report them to everyone here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u17	Dear National Deputies! A voiced position by the faction on the organization of our work on issues related to the holding of two parliamentary hearings, I reiterate. Once again, I point out to the registration sector that there is no need to register bills that violate the Rules in order to avoid scandals. During the Conciliation Council meeting, we discussed the issue with you and concluded that 13 draft decrees should choose the issues that are most sensitive and are of a state-wide nature and have a state-wide sound. In view of that, dear colleagues, I will put to the vote the rating drafts of the rulings. Those of them who will receive the most votes will be dealt with accordingly. If, for example, the first two decisions they get, draft decrees, the biggest votes, are not supported in the decision-making process, then we will consider the following. Is there no objection? I therefore put to the vote a draft decree on parliamentary hearings on "On Ukraine's readiness of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian Ministry of Emergency Situations to counter the threats of extremism and terrorism in Ukraine." The proposal here to hold these parliamentary hearings in March 2011 is very difficult for us to do, again, because two parliamentary hearings have already been decided on March. At the same time, I'm voting on this draft decree, registration number 8026. [[10:15:47.]] For-13. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to consider the bill of parliamentary hearings on the subject of "State-church dialogue as an important factor in interfaith harmony in Ukraine." Here's a proposal for April 6, 2011. [[Registration number 8103]] Please vote. [[10:16:28]] For-92 Next draft Decision on Parliamentary hearings on "Ukraine-Russian relations in the field of humanitarian and cultural cooperation". [[Registration number 8078]] [[May 18, 2011]] I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[10:17:01]] For-79 Next draft Decision on Parliamentary Hearings on the "Institute for Family in Ukraine: Status, Problems and Ways of Resolution". [[Registration number 8079]] [[June 2011]] By the way, your honor, yesterday we had a conversation with the author of the Oksana Billozer project, and she agrees that we don't consider the draft regulation today if there is no support in the session hall. Then it will be possible to return to that question in September. Oksani Bilozer microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the National MPs, I just want to say one such phrase. The bill has been in Parliament for three years, and for three years the decree on parliamentary hearings about the family institution does not fall into the session room. I understand it won't pass today. So I would like us to vote for it in September and to have these parliamentary hearings held in Ukraine in September. You and I spent two days arguing about different conventions for the adoption of our children. And no one asks, "Where do those orphans come from?".. So I think this is an extremely necessary question that we need to consider. And in September, I accept this offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u19	Colleagues, given the proposal and the position of the author of the draft decision, then we will not put him to the vote, and in September we will go back to making a decision on this issue if we all live to live. Is there no objection? Thank you. I am voting on the draft Decree 8172 on parliamentary hearings on the issue of "Abolishing the threat to Ukraine's economic security created by the rise of public debt liabilities". Author – Oleg Lazko. He argued that it was necessary to consider the matter. I'm saying that you argued that there was a need to address this issue. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[10:19:37]] For-26 I am voting on the draft Resolution 8073 on Parliamentary hearings on "The state of the art and prospects for the development of Ukraine's pharmaceutical sector". [[Registration number 8073]] [[10:20:13]] For 267 I would like to vote on the draft Decision No. 8046 on Parliamentary hearings on "Constitutional principles of Ukrainian language and the integrity of the State". [[8046]] [[10:20:48]] For-52 I'm voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on Ukrainian Cinematography: Status, Problems, Perspectives. [[Registration number 8168]] [[10:21:23]] Z-71 I'm voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings on "The ways of reforming higher education in Ukraine". [[Registration number 8066]] Please vote. [[10:21:54]] For-88 I would like to vote on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The State of Compliance with Legislation in the Social Security of the Elderly." [[10:22:26]] For-94 Next draft of the Parliamentary Hearings Decision on "The Consequences of Tax Reform in Ukraine". [[Registration number 8014]] [[10:22:56]] Z-70. Next, Decree 8036 on the holding of parliamentary hearings on "To uphold the rights of the Ukrainian community in the Russian Federation". Yes, there goes the vote. [[10:23:26]] For-36 I suggest, fellow Members, that you consider a bill to hold parliamentary hearings on the subject of "Reforming Labour Legislation of Ukraine." Please vote. [[10:24:00]] For-51 Dear colleagues! Thus, Decree 8073 was supported by 267. Decree 8098 was supported by 94 national deputies. And 8103 to 92 deputies. That's why. We'll look into it. Dear colleagues! So let's just say that we've now taken the most votes, we've considered if we haven't made a decision -- the next one, we've made two decisions, and then we're taking a picture. No, we will. What more do you want from me, Oleg Lazko? Turn on the light.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Once again, I insist, and I have the right under the Constitution to have Parliament consider a bill on the state debt situation in Ukraine. The situation is threatening, our country has $55 billion in debt. Each Ukrainian family has thousands of dollars to pay off these debts. And I find it extremely indignant that the so-called opposition factions do not vote in favour of this motion. Is it not because they are involved in raising these debts? So I suggest you consider this bill and make a decision to stop on this slippery road that will lead our Ukraine to the default. And we'll all be responsible for that. And a parliament that has not made an effort to stop the government today and the former in raising the government's debts. That's why I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, let's deal with this. Names weren't called. I beg of you, dear fellows, well, I beg of you! Andrew School, well, I, well, you be, you're a tolerant person. Dear colleagues, let's make this decision: we are about to make decisions on those draft regulations from which we will not make a decision, we are going to invite the committees to hold appropriate committee hearings during this session, providing the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the necessary organisational and technical support for the preparation and conduct of such committee hearings. Well, please, Andrew, please. In the end, when we look at it, you'll take the line. Well, School Andrew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u22	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for your word. Because I wanted to stand firm for the necessity of holding parliamentary hearings. So I think that if we have the opportunity to spend in September, October, November, next year, of course very many questions will lose their relevance. However, I believe that making appropriate decisions for parliamentary hearings should be on the same broad subject as ensuring that it does not lose its relevance. And I think that, well, we just have to look at what is the situation of Ukrainian-Russian relations in the field of humanitarian-cultural cooperation, that's my determination. Many here have spoken to our current authorities about how the relationship between Ukraine and Russia has improved very well and very much. But unfortunately, the price of gas is rising, Ukrainian organizations in Russia are closing, newspapers are not being published. And the situation with Ukrainians outside of Ukraine in general is shamefully bad. And I'd like us to get back to my decision at least in the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on "Contemporary Status and Prospects for the Development of the Pharmaceutical Sector of Ukraine" is under consideration. [[Registration number 8073]] The reporter is Bachevi Tetjana Dmitrovna. I'm asking you to consider this with a reduced procedure. He was swinging, wasn't he? Please. We're on our way. [[10:28:53]] For 219 Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! Virtually all members of the Health Committee have submitted a draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on parliamentary hearings on the topic “Contemporary status and prospects of the pharmaceutical sector of Ukraine”. The proposed topic of parliamentary hearings is relevant, represents public interests and requires a high legislative debate. The purpose of these parliamentary hearings is to discuss the state of the art of the domestic pharmaceutical industry, to find a mechanism to minimize threats and to develop proposals for the further development of the domestic market. The pharmaceutical sector is an extremely important sector of the national economy of Ukraine, is constantly evolving and structured. Ukraine's farm price in 2010 was 22.4 billion grevens. But the pharmaceutical market remains very import-dependent. The volume of imported products is 17 billion grevens. The share of domestic products is only 27 per cent in cash and 67 per cent in natural terms. Once again, I stress the relevance of this topic and ask for the support of the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u25	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, are we going to discuss this? () [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, if there's any insistence, please sign in. Dinner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u26	Evening, faction of Party regions. Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, respected Ukrainian citizens, distinguished people's deputies! The topic raised today by the representative of Haydayev is now relevant and very important to Ukraine. Why? I have repeatedly spoken, spoken and advocated for our national pharmaceuticals to grow better and better and better, because we are truly dependent on imports and that is the most terrifying. Today we have every reason to raise our domestic pharmaceutical industry. Therefore, the faction of the “regions” will vote for parliamentary hearings to be held in our Supreme Council and for the people to know how we, as members of the People's People's Council, fight to ensure that our people are provided with qualified medicines of domestic production. And if we don't do it, it'll be worth it. The faction of the regions will therefore vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u27	Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u28	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Please pass the word to Karpuk Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u29	Vladimir Karpuk, microphone, please. Then Andrew School will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u30	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". This is an extremely pressing issue, and we will support the holding of such parliamentary hearings. Think about it. From a pharmaceutical product in 2010, 22.4 billion dollars, only a quarter, in cash, was produced by the domestic pharmaceutical industry. But if you take 1.2 billion packages, two thirds of them are made up of domestic production. I mean, cheap drugs that are produced by the domestic pharmaceutical industry. Now there are about one and a half hundred pharmaceutical factories in Ukraine, but only one and a half of them meet international standards and are certified internationally. Ukraine is also exporting a large part of the pharmaceutical industry, so the supply of medicines, the development of the pharmaceutical industry is a matter of national security. And Ukraine should not be dependent on the production of life - sustaining drugs. Along with this subject of this parliamentary hearing, the situation around the Indar factory should also be. We know that he was practically reselled through ten hands, disappeared from state property, were numerous appeals by national deputies, but so far the situation is unknown. So it went the way it was supposed to be in a country that was rich in corruption. The government has stolen a huge factory that supplied insulin, and now we are forced to spend huge public spending on the purchase of these drugs abroad. And there are many examples of this. That is why we will support parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u31	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u32	Andrew Schlell. The Fatherland faction is BUT. I'd like to point out that we're a little bit, you know, we don't feel the country we live in. The government is creating a problem, and today’s authorities have actually tripled the price of medicine and domestic and foreign medicine. To tell you the truth, people, I don't know how East Ukraine is, and West is cheaper to go to Poland, buy three times, often four times cheaper drugs than in Ukraine, come back and it will buy their stay there for years. Therefore, when the authorities vote for parliamentary hearings, it is so impressive that they are both deaf and mute at the same time. So we don't hear the problem, we don't hear the people and society, but we're going to introduce the parliamentary hearing to take time from the pressing problems. I don't get it. Parliamentary hearing is an instrument of opposition. But you don't discuss it at parliamentary hearings, you change. Your Minister of Health, your Humanitarian Vice Prime Minister, as you can see, your Prime Minister, your President, your BSS, your audit services. Go ahead, plant it, but you don't. You have the main task of knee-deeping the Ukrainian people, raping the Ukrainian nation and the state, destroying the opposition. There's more medicine to be done here! It's hard, it's better to talk about this at parliamentary hearings. Just think about what you look like, how society looks at you. Instead of solving the problem, you want to discuss it. Do you want to come here to Parliament and invite people to tell you how badly you run? Are you going to lead your leaders to say, "You know, you need to introduce domestic medicine. We really don't have them, but we're going to introduce them." Instead of talking about domestic drugs, we need to lower prices, supply poor pensioners who cannot afford high - quality treatments and high - quality pharmacies. That is why we have voted against these hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u33	Question completed. Let's go over the draft regulation 8073. I am merely in view of the honourable colleagues, as already mentioned by the Chief of the Supreme Council, that you and I are now determined by the weighting vote that we will be considering, and we will decide only on two issues, that is, on June and July. So what I'm proposing right now is that this decision that I've obtained the highest number of votes on the ratings, we've written down in the decree what to do here on May 18th, but in May we already have, we're going to do it in June 2011. And to reconcile the date when there should be a parliamentary hearing there in June. With this clarification, I put to the vote the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on "The state of the art and prospects for the development of Ukraine's pharmaceutical sector" in June 2011. Please vote. [[10:37:43]] For 258. It's been decided. Once again, when preparing the signing order, please specify the date according to the schedule when it should be in June and make other changes to the date according to the wording of the regulation, when to submit the information materials and so on and so forth. The next draft of the ruling, which we have taken second place in rating, is the 809th Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The State of Compliance with Legislation in the Field of Social Welfare of Elderly Citizens". There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[10:38:47]] For 207 Offer supported. The author of the Katerinchuk bill, but you know he's sick. Then I invite you from the committee. I don't see Suškević either. Who's from the committee? Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, First Deputy Head of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u34	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Honorary colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons reviewed the draft decree on 20 April 2011 for parliamentary hearings on the subject “Standing to comply with legislation on the social welfare of senior citizens”, he discussed on 2 March 2011 at his meeting. The need for a comprehensive discussion of the state of compliance with legislation in the area of social security for elderly citizens is due to the registration in the Supreme Ukraine of a draft Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments. Registration number 7562, provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which provides for a substantial reduction in the social security coverage of Ukrainian citizens. The bill, inter alia, proposes most of the social benefits and guarantees, the rights to which are defined by the laws of Ukraine, as required by the Constitution of Ukraine, to be established in the size and order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which, in fact, imposes social security standards on the basis of the state budget and leads to the manual administration of government rules of law. Such benefits and guarantees include, inter alia, the right to free passage, life-service benefits and the use of the apartment, fuel and communications benefits, the provision of one-off assistance by 9 May and a number of others. The committee supports the initiative of the author of the draft decision on the need for an open professional discussion on the subject, but considers it appropriate to hold appropriate parliamentary hearings not earlier than June of this year. In view of the above, the Committee recommends that the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on the State of Compliance with Legislation on the Social Welfare of Elderly Citizens be adopted as a basis. I'd like to add something.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u35	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u36	And as the first deputy head of the committee, and as head of the Council of Veterans of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to support this bill. What's more, I tend to think that it should be considered on April 20th, because it's very high probability that this document, which goes against article 22 of the Constitution, can be accepted. And so, in veterans, pensioners, disabled people, in some other categories, their guarantees and rights can be narrowed down considerably. So I would like to support this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u37	Please sign up for the performances if they are desirable. Please, Vladimir Karpuk, prepare for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u38	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We're going to support this Bill by Mikolia Dmitrievich Catherinechuk from the following positions. In accordance with Ukraine's draft Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments, social protection for 17 categories of citizens will be reduced. This is a large part of the population of Ukraine, since only about 4.6 million veterans work, 10 percent of the population. War veterans are 2.8 million, that's 6.1 percent of the population. The victims of the Chernobyl AES accident are 1.9 million people. The total number of people with disabilities is 2.6 million. And other categories of people. We know that in recent years there has been such a practice when the Cabinet regulations limit the operation of laws. This is practically up to a hundred such laws when social pay cuts to some categories of the population. Although the government has promised that improvements in life are already under way, sociological surveys as well, every individual can see how limited the rights, benefits and privileges of these groups are. So this is an extremely important, irritating subject for all of Ukraine. And it deserves a detailed discussion and concrete decisions, government tasks at parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council Halls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u39	Please, Peter Cibenko, the Communist faction. After him, Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u40	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear colleagues, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this draft decision. That's what this is about, actually. In the presentation of the committee’s profile for pensioners, veterans, and disabled persons, the issue is a major narrowing of the rights of Ukrainian citizens — veterans. But the problem is much broader because this bill does not apply only to veterans, but it refers to a number of other categories, such as Chernobyl, such as some other categories of people with benefits. What are we talking about? And the point is that of all the laws that provide for certain payments from the State Budget to certain categories of benefits, it is proposed to remove all the specifics that speak of the size or extent of the benefits, and instead to set such a sensation that the benefits and amounts of payments are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in an order envisaged by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I mean, conditionally speaking, what does that look like? Let's say the Act on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection provides that by May 9 different categories of war participants have the right to a single payment by Victory Day. Depending on the category of war veterans, it ranges from three to ten subsistence minimums, or from three to ten minimum pensions. After the adoption of this law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the condition that I call this number again conditionally, pays the veterans 100 dollars and says, well, it's okay, we've settled with you. And there is no way for a veteran to even challenge this illegal decision in court. I mean, my fellow Members, I believe that such parliamentary hearings are necessary and must be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u41	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Paul’s Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u43	Andrew Pavlovsky’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u44	Andrey Pavlovski, the "Fatherland" party. Respectable compatriots! Today's authorities are like a deaf person who doesn't want to hear or see the serious problems that are in our society and vote for parliamentary hearings for some secondary topics, and social, serious topics they don't want to see or hear, and they don't want people to hear the truth about what the situation is right now. The same is true of the fact that social conditions have deteriorated considerably in the past year, especially for older people, pensioners. But that's not enough for them, do you see what pension reform they're proposing? There's only one thing about cannibalism: how to save money on the pensioners themselves in all the other ordinary citizens. Therefore, it is certain that our faction "BUT is the Fatherland" will support these parliamentary hearings. And at the same time, I would like to point out that there is good news for our pensioners, yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Pensioners and Veterans as a result of parliamentary hearings of the pension reform, a decision was taken by a majority of the votes, to send the government back to work on this humane law on pension reform. This is the second committee, after a social committee that proposes to reject these inhumane measures of abuse of pensioners. So I would like to support this decision, and I would like to say from another point of view that the same committee has supported an opposition bill to prevent the deterioration of our citizens' pension insurance, which just does not allow the increase in retirement age, the increase in employment and other unpopular measures, introduces a moratorium of 20 years against these unpopular measures. So, pensioners, there's still an opportunity for us to fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u45	Jaroslav Suhi, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to pay attention to the reasons for the need, the regret that there is no author, the conduct of such parliamentary hearings. There's nothing here about older people, it's talking about social politics in general, it's a great topic that can be considered at committee hearings on your committee. Please, gather the Bank's, 6/8 in the people's room, conduct the hearing, make some sort of point of view. Because, then, listen carefully, and legislation in the field of health, it contributes to the health of our elderly, absolutely. And the reform that comes about when the field and obstetric points are eliminated and everything is transferred out there to the rain centers, and there's no district hospitals, it's contributing, it's not contributing. And the pension system itself satisfies our elderly, when in the 1980s the retirement rate was 7%, now 28%. When not everyone pays the contributions to the Pension Fund, it does not satisfy, does not satisfy. I would very much ask, you know, the legislative work in social policy has long been, in my eyes and in your eyes, a hostage of political games. For years, instead of being balanced, considering the economic possibilities, we have seen open populism and demagogism, and we have seen just now, in this room, how the consideration of a normal peaceful bill is accompanied by a mere act of common sense, come on, remember. You're in opposition today, you'll be in power tomorrow, I'll see you tomorrow. I listened to you yesterday. And I listened to these questions yesterday, as you told us, tell us where to get the money? There is a limit to hypocrisy, Andrew, to cynicism. Do you think you're fooling people or lying? We're talking about high pensions, so let's talk about high wages, about reforming the pay system, about reforming the social policy system -- it'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! We have concluded our discussion of the matter. I will now put to the vote, please prepare for the vote. What? But we accept it as a basis, but we do not accept it definitively. Dear colleagues! There is a motion for a draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "The State of Compliance with Legislation in the Field of Social Welfare of Elderly Citizens". [[July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, July 6th, ……]] Please vote. [[10:51:45.]] For-143 The decision is not taken. By factions, please, the Party of the Regions is 9, "BUT- "Patkačina" -40, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" - 25, the Communists - 24, "Reforms for the Future" -18, the People's Party - 20, non-fractional - 7. Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that we now have such a balanced situation, perhaps let us deal with it this way, one minute. Maybe we'll figure it out, let's do this, we've made decisions in June, we'll hold consultations with factions to find an acceptable solution. You know, I think you feel, and we all feel that right now we're not going to make any decisions, we're just going to have to fight and blame. So maybe this way, July, we're going to keep it open, we're going to further consult on these 12 draft regulations that we have, and we're going to decide on one decision. Just a minute. Well, we're not gonna make any decisions right now. We're just going to take some time, and we need to spend at least a day today to consider the draft Law in our second reading on anticorruption. We can, again, one more minute, dear colleagues, if, well, I beg you, Oleg Lazko, well, I understand. Well, let's just put it this way: to keep our redheads clean, let's vote for a draft ruling that we didn't vote on, Oksana Bilozer. If it doesn't work, then we're all putting it on hold.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u48	Well, I beg you, why the word here? I put to the vote the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings "Institute of the Family in Ukraine: Status, Problems and Ways of Resolution". [[for July 2011]] Please vote. Well, wait a minute, come on. Now. [[10:54:01]] For 327 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if you would accept this suggestion: since 327 deputies have been supported, let's take a decision to hold parliamentary hearings on July 6, 2011. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:54:41]] For 326 So, dear colleagues, we will hold two more parliamentary hearings. And so in this session, we're going to close the problem of parliamentary hearings. With respect to other draft regulations, if you don't mind, we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u49	Now you're going to talk about it. The commission will be given to the relevant committees to hold open parliamentary hearings. On the part of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s apparatus, help to explain these parliamentary hearings, especially in their preparation and conduct. I'm sorry, committee hearings. Is there no objection? There's a denial about Lysak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u50	Oleg Lazko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am sorry that you are demonstrating your double standards throughout Ukraine. You accused the camera of registering my decision because, you see, I offered to hold a hearing on the government debt on 4 May. But we've just voted on a similar decision on the state of the pharmaceutical sector, where it was suggested on May 18 that we hold these hearings and there was no problem changing the date. I mean, you're actually under formal circumstances avoiding answers to the most important question, including your personal guilt as a politician who's been in power for 20 years in this country. Where do we get $55 billion in debt? How will our people, as our country, deal with these debts? What can you do to stop collecting these debts as one person is flea? These are the answers we should look for in this room. You deprive the public of the possibility of seeing the threats facing the country and of finding ways to address these threats.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm not avoiding personal responsibility, I'm not running from faction to faction, I'm just working and working. I avoid responsibility. Let's all be responsible. We need to convince the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, they're not backing up, they're supporting the next session, but they're backing up. It's gonna be okay. All of it. Dear colleagues, two factions: the Faction "BUT" and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" call for a 30-minute recess to be held. Maybe you'll make a statement and we won't take a break? Please, who? Andrew Sanchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Yesterday, a further turn of democracy and freedom of speech began. The National Broadcasting and Television Council, without any legal basis, did not renew the broadcasting licence in 3 locations for the Black Sea Broadcasting Company. I'll remind you, "Black Sea" is 18 years on the air. This company has grown a generation of Crimeans, it broadcasts in 27 locations. This decision, the illegal decision of the National Council, deprives the air of five rural areas of our country. The only motive he spoke was that it was a company with a hard history. Yes, in fact, in our country 18 years of staying on air without worshipping any power, it's very difficult. In the course of these 18 years, the Black Sea has tried to close down five times, the origins of the last three presidents of our country. The power had changed, but before each election, the free television company was inconvenient. I would like to say that almost all the presidents of our country, the Speakers, the Prime Minister, representatives of various political forces, and from one and the other half halls have been on the air. But most importantly, there is an opportunity for ordinary people to express their views on this air. You know, I tried yesterday, maybe without raising any waves, to understand what's going on and to make two attempts to call a famous freedom of speech fighter in our country, Anne Herman. My calls have, unfortunately, gone unanswered. I must say that this is what we believe to be political repression and freedom of speech, very clearly, demonstrated by the synchronicity, which is the attempt to deny the Black Sea license, by synchronizing the criminal case against Telecommunications President Tatiana Krasikov in court. And four numbers, tomorrow, first meeting. After seven months of dissipation of arguments to bring this criminal case to trial, the authorities found nothing else, such as this set of random emotions and wishes to form a criminal case and bring it to trial. I'm asking that my colleagues listen to me carefully, get rid of the newspapers. I address representatives of various political forces. I ask journalists to support a free television company, and I ask the media to speak with solidarity. Finally, I demand that the Attorney-General's Office take over its constitutionally defined case of monitoring compliance with the laws of our country. You have every reason, Mr. Attorney General, to protest.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u53	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, regarding the statement made by a colleague of Saints, we have a committee on information, freedom of speech, we have a temporary commission of inquiry, and I would like to request that this information be provided so that they can study this issue and provide relevant information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we need to consider a draft decree amending some of the rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Makeienko Volodymyrovich. There is a request, since it is a matter of unifying the two committees, to consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u56	What, what? The proposal will now be considered. I'm voting on this proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:02:02:02]] For 214 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft decree proposes to reduce the number of committees from 27 to 26 by combining the Committee on Finance and Banking and the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. This is the name of the new committee, the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy. The committee is invited to select all Ukrainian national deputies who are currently part of the Committee on Finance and Banking and the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy on quotas, at the time of the formation of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the beginning of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I note that the proposal made does not entail a narrowing of the realms of knowledge that have relied on these committees. At its meeting on March 2, this year, the Committee considered draft decree No. 8185 and unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of its consideration at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u58	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Please sign up, two for, two against. Have a seat, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine". Get ready for Kamchatno.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u59	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u60	Yes, please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, well, frankly, I'm surprised that this motion for a ruling is being put back into the session hall, because he's already tried once, it was his intention to bring it in while changing the head of the Customs and Tax Committee, Mr. Teriochin, accordingly. What are we talking about? The point is that 82 articles, more specifically, 81st part of the second, article of the Ukrainian Law on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, say that a list of committees can be established by the Supreme Council for a new vocation only at the first session of this vocation. That is, it may not even do so if it is satisfied with the list of committees that were on the Supreme Council of the previous call. But if it allows for the possibility, either to define another list, or perhaps to make changes and somehow to merge committees or to create new committees, it can indeed do so in accordance with the Rules, but only in the first session of its vocation. Because now we have, dear colleagues, not the first session. In view of these circumstances, and for the first time that we have pointed out, the authors have agreed with us, and I think this time they will have to agree with us, because as long as this rule exists, this draft decree is in grave contravention of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So there are two ways out of this situation: either you're giving up this draft regulation, or please, if you want to be at least right from the legal point of view, please make appropriate changes to the Act "On Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", which will allow you to make similar decisions accordingly. As long as this regulatory rule exists, no one is right about it, I think it's a totally brutal way to violate the rules of the Rules, which, among other things, your votes have recently become the rules of the law. Either be consistent, or let's choose a path that is at least acceptable and correct in terms of right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u62	Valerius Kamchatny, group of Reforms for the Future. Prepare Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u63	Stonehead, Reform Group for the Future, Harkushkin. Well, the story with this bill that we're considering once again confirms the old truth: before you change anything, think seven times, and then cut it once. If I'm not mistaken, this committee has existed in this way before. Then there was either political relevance or some other purpose -- and it was artificially divided. Further, life has led to the fact that only together will they be able to resolve those issues that relate to the authority that is in the list of names of the committee. Therefore, our group supports the draft Return Order and the unification of these two committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u64	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT is the Fatherland". Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u65	I give the word to Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u66	Please, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u67	Thank you. I would like to remind you of the following: in accordance with Article 19 of the Second Constitution, the authorities of the State, to which the Supreme Council is certainly referring, their officials are obliged to act solely on the basis, within the limits of the powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. I'm opening the Committees Act, article six: the personal composition of the committees. Part five: “Head of the Committee, First Deputy and Secretary of the Committee cannot be members of one faction”. This standard is duplicated in part by article 82 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. There is the Law on Committees, article 34, and part four, which states that a committee consisting of no more than 10 persons elects one deputy head of the committee. On a committee of 11 to 20 persons, the first deputy and deputy head of the committee, and on a committee of 21 and more, one first deputy and two deputy heads of the Supreme Council. The decree is contrary to these rules of the Committees and the Rules of the Supreme Council. It is proposed to serve as the first deputies – two national deputies, with the head of the Committee of the Homutinnik and the first deputy head of the Committee of the Pecklusenko – representing one faction, the faction of the “Regions”, of course. Honorable colleagues, namely, are offered three, although there may be only two, according to the law. Dearly beloved, I wanted to address most of you, do you have few positions, do you have to do so, in flagrant violation of the Constitution, in flagrant violation of the laws of Ukraine? I have pointed out the following several times from this rostrum, as the Supreme Council of Ukraine may require the enforcement of the laws of the citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u68	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u69	legal persons of Ukraine, when does it violate the law itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u70	Please, Chechetov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! This decision should be considered in the context of the implementation of the President's administrative reform aimed at improving the efficiency of governance and cost savings. You see, we are starting off, we are asking for a union of two committees, we are sacrificing the head of a committee, where a member of the Party of the Regions is to reduce the costs of Parliament and channel social needs. We call for a vote, and I think this initiative will be supported. Among the opposition's thoughts, there is also an opportunity to contribute to the savings through Parliament and the transfer of this money to social needs, pensioners, veterans, persons with disabilities. So let us prove, not by word of mouth, but by case. We eliminate the cumbersomeness, reduce the number of heads burdened with the country's budget, and allow these resources to be used for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I think on the one hand we should welcome a reduction in the number of machines and management positions, because there were two committees, there would be one committee. So here, of course, it's for improvement. Taking into account the discussion of Bill No. 8185 – Orders amending certain Supreme Council decrees, namely, the following two decisions: the Decision on the List, Quantities and Objects of the Sixth Call Committees of the Supreme Council, and the Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council on Privatization. According to my information yesterday, at a meeting of the Regulatory Committee, all 100 percent voted in favour of the ruling. So I don't know why you have differences now. I'm putting it to a vote and I'm proposing a regulation of 8185. Please vote. [[11:12:27]] For 261 It's been decided. The committee is united, just as it has always been. Let us welcome the head of the United Committee and wish him fruitful work. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act is under consideration regarding the wager on certain crops. Registration number 8117. There's a short cut. Huh? Is it full? Okay. Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinović, author of the bill, please. Lukyanov, I can't see. Then I'd like to ask Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich of the committee. There's no procedure in the Rules. None. While Homutinnik is coming, Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u73	Thank you. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland. Adam Ivanovich, I want to call your attention one more time. I was quoting the position of the Constitution of Article 19 of Part Two. The Supreme Council must enforce the law, including the Law on Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are 30 articles -- full discussion of the bill and 31st -- on the discussion of the bill. Both of these articles provide a report by the initiator of the proposal. And no one can break that norm. The Law is formal, and the Supreme Council, as a state body, must carry it out. This is not a private legal relationship where anything that is not prohibited is allowed. It's a state-law relationship. So obey the law. So today we have no reason, given that we cannot accept any changes in this case ad hoc, the 50th article does not provide for the possibility of changing the legislative procedure in this respect. So put an end to the chasm at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u74	And thank you for the fiery performance. But please give me any article of the Rules that says that if there is no report, the question is not being considered. I repeat: it simply says who has to report, but it is not said that if there is no one to report, the law is not being considered, this is one moment. One second. Is there a board or a sidekick? Which one is it? I mean, they're also the authors of this bill, and they can report it. Dear colleagues! Since there is a remark, I am voting on the proposal: Who is to consider a bill without the author of the bill, hearing only the committee's position? Please vote. [[11:15:49]] For 259. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act on Certain Grain Crops. [[8117]] The purpose of adopting the bill is based on the need to satisfy the internal market with Greek crumbs and to stabilize the price of this product, i.e. Greek, which has recently been characterized by a steady increase in both wholesale and retail prices. This is a temporary cancellation of the import duty, 20 percent, by June 1st. It is estimated that the authors will be able to drive this product in time to stabilize the price situation in the internal market. It's understandable why this initiative has now arisen, because several times the price of the product and the domestic capacity for cultivation and certain stocks is not enough to meet all the needs of the internal market. At the same time, with the need for the adoption of the bill, the committee made several observations concerning the legal terminology and the proper presentation of the bill. In our opinion, there should be in principle a completely different name for this bill, it should be a bill on the temporary order of taxation of transactions involving imports of a Greek crop. It should be clearly stated when this law takes effect and when it loses its validity, that is, on June 1. Also more legally correct, it is necessary to write commodity items, i.e. the Codes of the Code of Criminal Procedure of Ukraine. Given what's being said, I would also like to mention another law, which, according to the same initiative by the authors of 8116, the same commercial position, but the abolition of the import VAT, was also discussed on the committee. And we decided that it would be enough for this time to take this step, i.e. temporarily take off the import duty 20 percent, and the import VAT is not going to touch at all now. In that case, we're really going to put the internal production and importers of this product in unequal conditions. In the light of the foregoing, the committee decided to recommend the adoption of the draft law in the first reading and to vote in favour of the shorter procedure for further elaboration of the law. I mean, in the next plenary week, we're going to be able to work out all of the things that I've previously reported, which is to put in a new edition and to make this bill more legally correct. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u76	Any questions? Sign up. Yes, please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u77	Dear Vitaly Juryevich! You have quite reasoned and objectively outlined the nature of the problem and the need to make this decision. And it's really in the interest of the large public masses, especially the regular consumer -- those who live on wages, pensions and so on. Because of the artificial uplifting demand fueled by individual extremist politicians, it has indeed led to such hospitation and distortions in price policies and so on. And it's absolutely right, as a correction, here's the import of the Greek import. But the question arises, in the air, are we not going to strangle our manufacturer by carrying such a mass of Greek? Or it's somewhere balanced, and we're going to shut down, and our manufacturer's going to get an incentive to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. We also discussed this issue on the committee. And there's this position, in the meantime, when we're going to work on second reading, we're going to analyze, together with the government and the Ministry of Professional Agrarian and the Ministry of Economics, the purpose of introducing quotas, let's say, in a certain amount. That is, the amount that is needed today to satisfy internal needs. According to the drafters, 25, no less than 25,000 tons of this product are required. But I think we're going to do a little bit more detailed and more accurate work and figure it out for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u79	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u80	Thank you. Andrew School, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Dear reporter! I agree with the previous question that extremist politicians have brought the situation in Ukraine to the point where we have to reduce excise and import duties in Greek. You know, Ukrainians were called Greeks -- it's our age-old culture. Don't you think it's just a simple, simple machination? Yes, of course, the simple way of Greek was hidden by one another. One part later formed, it's like a carriage from China to Ukraine. Because, well, we understand perfectly that China is not the kind of country that has the best place to grow Greek. And actually, right now, with your hands, they want to make enough money to get this grain in here. Because the price on the market after it was imported would have to be about six dollars. According to you and our data, it's going to be 14. So who's going to make the most of this, please tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u81	Well, probably the price is stabilizing and the margin that is today is going to be really smaller, that's the first. Secondly, I certainly agree with what was meant to be a certain state regulation of this position, so the state reserve would have to come out with certain interventions. But we understand there is still a political element. And past leaders of the Reserve are not currently in the country, they are, including in search, including and, thanks to these leaders, and today there is this problem. I think that if we adopt this law temporarily for three months, and in the future, this situation will simply be a lesson for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u82	Yeah, who's next? Andrew Pavlovsky?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u83	Pavlovsky. Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u84	Andrew Pavlovski, "BUT is the Fatherland." As a result, the government of Azar began to regulate the food market. They began to regulate the Greek, and it disappeared from sales. Now the other pieces are disappearing. Salt and sugar will soon be regulated. And I'd like to ask: it's now being discussed widely in the media that this Greek is so cheap because it's fed to cattle. So what would Azarov feed us by going to the cattle? We have to look at the quality of this Greek. And why is it 14 and not 6 bracelets, how are there calculations on that? Who will make the most of it, and who will take the difference? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u85	Thank you. I'm the only one who can answer that the first proposal that was made was to cancel the provisional duty and also import into VAT, this proposal on the committee did not find support. That's probably the position she'd be in. I'm sure it would harm the domestic producers of this product economically, because we'd be on a level playing field. And now we're talking about going to be equal to the price position, both for domestic production and for the imported product. So I think in the meantime, the situation is stabilizing, well at what level, well, it's going to be answered by an expert from the relevant ministries and authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, time is spent asking questions. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions, then for the national MPs, and then for the MPs. Please. These included Teryochin, Konovaluk, Zarubinsky, and Moses. And now I'm asking you to sign up for the National MPs. Names of the national MPs, please. Thus, our esteemed colleagues for 25 minutes are 15 for the deputies and 12 for the factions, and 15 for the deputies. 27. [[B in m in s a l in]] All according to the Rules, there are no less than 15 minutes of deputies. The factions have only been recorded four. All of it. Please. Sergey Teryohin, Faction of the Fatherland. It's a microphone, isn't it? Ah, Sergey Sass will be speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u87	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! So it turns out that the Oriental Slavs of ancient times were sowing Greek. Thus, they were not accidentally called Greeks. In Soviet times, Greece was also a strategic culture, and it was not on the benches, but in the army it was a diet. In the days of an independent Ukraine, the Greeks did not listen, so there were no problems. And it was only when the government of professionals came that problems arose with Greece. Probably not least, it was because in the government of professionals, agrarian authorities are headed by a major Greek minister who has basic education as a builder. His substitute has a basic education as a teacher of work. If it were different, they would know that the Greeks in Ukraine, in central regions, could be sown by mid-June and reaped. This suggests that there are no professionals today. Not only government programs, but neither strategy nor tactics, and in this case we can't refer to predecessors. But we, the constructive opposition, analyzed and found that China today does not produce the volume of the Greek food that allows it to export. Greece is purely feedable. Next. Last year, the Russian Federation refused to export, from imports of Greek to the Russian Federation of 100,000 tons, in relation to the following. First. The Greek phytos did not allow it to be used as a food culture. Instead of 5, up to 20 percent of it was beaten, it was all genetically modified. So we did a price analysis, and we found that bringing Chinese Greek to Ukraine’s ports would amount to six dollars without VAT and duty. And if it's VAT, because it's only proposed to take off the bribe, 8 bucks. One of the leaders of the Party of the Regions said that the Greeks would be granted 14 bracelets. 25,000 tons does not allow diversification of Greek yields to lower market prices. It's going to be bought by buyers and the price is going to be left on 26 bracelets. Dear colleagues, the budget for this operation will be 75 million dollars and will be stolen from this operation will be 65 million dollars. We realize that we have a problem with diabetics for whom Greece is not only a food but also a medicine. Therefore, we suggest that our second proposal is quite specific: in view of the change in the name of the Ministry of Agropolitics in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, two dots should be added and the Greeks should be added. And so after a coma with each other, put and add.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u88	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u89	There'll be sugar, flour and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u90	Thank you. Valery Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u91	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected colleagues, indeed, the issue that is now growing into political plains is more similar today to the case of the treatment of the Greeks from the BUT factions, who were not included in the past to ensure that 300,000 hectares of land were planted, as was traditionally done in Ukraine, and only 1908 000 were planted. And we really understand that this culture has initially been deficient. It is clear that the State must ultimately ensure that there are no major distortions and deficits in the food market. We call, of course, for this rule to be supported, for a reduction in the import duty in order to satisfy the market and ensure the food of our citizens' culture. But I'd like to say something else. Of course, it is difficult to hold the market when, for example, the Greek neighbours in Belarus stand at a price of 45 bracelets, in Russia there are 60 bracelets to be converted, and it is clear that a certain export of culture has taken place all this time. But I'd like to say something else. I will not go into history where Greece came from, whether from Greece, whether from the Himalayas or from the Himalayas, and this is really Asian culture, but I would just like to turn to the BUT faction, which ultimately is responsible for what began last year. It's a direct responsibility. So I'm addressing you, I'm addressing you, I'm calling on you to keep the food market balanced with Greece, and you're going to stop using this culture until the future harvest.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u92	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Anatoly Matvienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u93	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. While listening to the discussion, honourable colleagues came to the conclusion that not only three of us have things to discuss — the upbringing of children, medicine and football, but we have all of us in Parliament in Greece. I don't understand in Greek, and I think it's absolutely a problem, not in Greek, but simply in a distorted system of access to the consumer of Ukrainian food. The whip, in fact, of the Ukrainian food sector is not Greek or flour or rice or anything else, and the whip is the middleman, the middleman system when there's 5, 7, and sometimes we have to figure out 12 intermediaries between the producer of the product, including the Greeks, and the seller. It's an interesting fact, if the manufacturer, in this case let's say Greek, I'm not going to talk about it anymore, he's selling his store for 7 bucks, and it's still coming to the supermarket until recently without even a supermarket and a grocery store for 14 bucks. Please tell me what kind of economy is going to develop in this case. I know, not all big businessmen, but actually pseudo businessmen like the word speculation. More than that, it is said that there are really no speculators, there are businessmen who use the imperfections of the legal system. Nothing like that. That's why in all countries there are antitrust scales, scales that ensure competition, so that this stuff, sorry for the jargon, is not just barbaric and wild. So I'm absolutely predicting that with Greece everything will be peaceful, they'll take her away. Obviously, we will help transport this Greek today, and then there will be a new product that will double the cost of bringing it to the supermarket. That's where the problem is. I want to say once again, the battle of speculation, the battle of mediation, the battle of income, not the ones that produce, but the one who knows how to take all the produce and sell it at a price far greater. And you have to look, as Cosma Prudkov said, at the root. That's why I feel like I need to listen to the issue. Recently, the minister of agropolitics said that if we took the full amount over the last few years -- the last time I said it -- Greeks, per person per year, what she consumes without a deficit, just two kilograms. Please tell me, with the hysteria that exists, how many people who see the Greek will buy: 2 kilograms a year in advance? 12 kilograms, and some, perhaps 20 kilograms. I think we should be careful too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u94	Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u95	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” block. Dear colleagues, I'd like to go a little bit beyond the question that's been asked on the agenda, and answer the question, and why is it that one year Greek is -- the second year Greek is gone; one year sugar is -- there is no second year sugar? We're constantly struggling with deficits. Obviously, we need to understand that Ukraine, if it's going to be able to build a market state, has to build a market infrastructure. There is no market infrastructure in Ukraine because there must be a manufacturer, there must be a stock market, there must be packages that eventually regulate these problems; there must be a split and only then a consumer. We have today, instead of building such a market infrastructure, and the previous, and even more so today's government, does nothing. And that's why I can assure you that this action is nothing more than a fight against the consequences. There's no reason to hide. I'd like at least a profile committee to be able to answer these problems by the second reading. Fighting the consequences does not solve the problem. And our government is demonstrating, on the contrary, the departure from the market mechanisms of infrastructure, the transfer of everything to the administration. Now there's a project that we're going to consider: what are the so-called government agents that are going to monopolize, dislodge money, enrich pockets. For what it is, for example. I have a question. Well, we'll take the Greek for 14 bracelets. Today, Mr. Sas has said that we have in Ukraine the cost of producing it for 4 bracelets, and 65 percent is the way out. Say, please, let's say seven bracelets, well, tops eight, who's enriching themselves? And I'm talking to the Homutinique, at the price of 14 bracelets, why are we allowing in broad daylight to rob the Ukrainian people? The second question is, is the government going to answer the question today: Please tell me, how many people know the Greeks have been removed from Ukraine this year? Produced last year, 50,000 tons. We're talking about 20, or 25,000 tons. Who will be responsible for the fact that the Greek exiled 50,000 tons and the government did not regulate it? Why did we again give the opportunity not to protect our consumer but to abuse him? Now the third question is, why until October 1st? Well, we have to balance this year and we're going to have it, well, in August, tops. We're up until October 1st. Well, if it's changed, because I know the project was this one and the terms. So, Mr. Homutinnikov, I would like to ask you, if you're keeping a budget deposit, please answer the second reading of these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u96	Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland". Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u97	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. Dear friends, you may have noticed in the position of one of the speaking absolute ignorance of the subject. This man with a dark military past accuses the government of Julia Timoshenko of not sowing Greek last year. Greece is not an ostrich culture, but when it was sown, it has been working for six months, so it has to be sown, not today. You can throw a day, two, three, a month where it's possible. Well, in Greek, I'm sorry, this is your acquisition, today's situation. Second, the government certainly offers interesting things to buy from the Greeks. Well, the Chinese, as you know, eat mostly rice, they even have a prayer, "Our Father, give us our daily bread." Sounds like "give us our true quality." That's why they've never done Greek, because they have a secondary culture. It's obviously genetically modified because they don't grow it for themselves at all, but like us who couldn't plant it in themselves. What is Greek for Ukraine? First of all, it's not just our diabetes system, which was talked about, which is about a million in Ukraine, but also the beekeeping system, because the sharp reduction in the sown Greeks in Ukraine led to the degradation of the med school during the period when the Greeks filled this niche. After July, after the acacia, the Greek went. She's gone now. What is it, again, that I would propose to the government to think about? Let's help farmers, give some grants or some loans to the Greeks in Ukraine. It's going to be a normal step, it's the whole world agricultural system that's going to go a certain direction that needs that kind of subsidy. Why aren't we offering this? Second thing you should offer. Today, Greece is not an absolutely necessary product for the vast majority of Ukraine, but there is a category that I mentioned -- diabetes for which it is the only corrupt culture that they can consume without harm to their health. So we already know certain measures when such measures were taken when the distribution of a product was made through social institutions. Because of medical institutions. And such a program could also be offered, because all diabetics are registered. They're getting some financial help, some test strips, some test strips and stuff. So it would also be an action that would relieve the tension in society. And you're offering to take Greek from the Chinese, to transport oil from the Belarusians, by destroying animal farming in Ukraine. By the way, the first years of animal destruction began with your authority when you stopped squeezing that rural cow that was still alive, they were cut out last year, right? Work like this, then you'll lead the country, you'll get to the last pen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u98	Yuri Karmazin, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Landik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u99	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! Of course, this problem would not have been the case if we had listened to the report of the two committees. And besides the committee, which, of course, the Homutinian correctly put out some things, he should report back to the Committee on Agricultural Policy. It is this committee that should now offer a way out to interest in the production of this Greek. That's the first one. And not just Greeks. And I'd like to remind you, right now they like to compare, 4.5-5.5 Greeks were costing at the time of Timoshenko's premiere – 4.5-5.5. Now you're saying: 14. Surprisingly, there should be no such price, and don't even tell people. That's a very high price. I want to tell you right now and to address the non-existent Prime Minister of Azarov to me. Because I write to him, and he doesn't answer. He doesn't accept deputies. So I address the President, I turn to others in his administration who have a chat or, as our former president said, a kebu. I'm speaking as president of the Association for Clean Agriculture and a Safe Environment. Here are the results of what they do and do in Greek. Here is the official help provided by the South branch of the Department of Industrial Radio Electronics, signed by the great patriot of the Ukraine of Tuký Volodymir Platonović. In the micro-wave technology, the fire-bird agro-company received 75 percent of the Greek supplement to the normal level. [[Mikolai]] [[Class "Ukraine"]] 75 percent plus we can get Greek. I'm talking to the government. Perhaps it is easier not to bring Chinese products here but to change the Prime Minister into Chinese. I suggest we do it. I'm suggesting that we switch viewers to Chinese. And that would be more correct. Because I turned to these acquisitions, which in any country would be awarded the Nobel Prize, in any country. And I say, people, these acquisitions are the acquisition of humanity, that's 20 years of work. That didn't interest the President, it didn't interest Azarov. That's why I think let's change it to Chinese. And what I'm going to ask you is, why zero percent, instead of ten, you want to write it down?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! I would very much ask the national MPs to choose language so that it may sometimes not be viewed as an insult. And I would ask you, my dear fellows, to ask you for endurance and delicacy, responsibility, I understand all the sarcasm, but let's refrain from doing this and examples, let's say on Ukrainian soil, exclusively, please. Please. Yuri Anatolyovich, but you're a staunch and intelligent deputy. Vladimir Ivanovich Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Andrew School will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u101	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You can talk about everything and other nations, who would run the country, but the main thing is, how and when they run it properly, when they start to tell you what you did today, but if you can plant it properly, in winter, and get the winter harvest, it's impossible. It is clear that the Greek sown was the last Government in an area of not more than 200 hectares, now 300 hectares are planned. But let's remember your import policy, if anyone wants to tell you, please, I can leave the time and let Sass go out and tell you the story. But I've told you examples of how you brought horns and hooves here, thousands of thousands of tons of chicken feet, not meat, hooves, legs and skin, covering this buffalo. And now they're telling us why the village is dead because you've completely buried it. The system of your work was to get loans at any rate, average your percentage of thirty, then make all the trouble, everything that exists from around the border, get discounts, value everything on customs contributions, and that's what the country lived on for five years, that's how it lived. You look at your 2009 budget, you get 29 per cent and 79 per cent of the customs revenue of the country, the country lives on what we value, but we don't import for our own, but for other people, that's where it all comes from. And now that your representatives are hiding in other countries, the former heads of the State Reserve, and where the Greeks are at the State Reserve, if it's not what's out of the warehouses, even the gates, that's where they're going to start. And the price is high, so I'll tell you as a simple marketer, if we bought for 6 or 10, know that sales will never be less than twice. Delivery, packing, unloading, packaged, delivered to the seller, sale, payment to the seller is a minimum of 100%, minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u102	Finish up, please. Andrew Schlell, the "BUT" faction is "The Fatherland" and Oleg Lazko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u103	Dear fellow national MPs, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it is very good that you have called for tolerance and not to be offended. But I'd like to point out that there's no one to insult, the cabinet is empty, the government's not interested, you know, he doesn't care, they've already started their scheme, there's no government. I say again, because you understand perfectly what we mean? There's no major greeksia, there's no substitute for a teacher of work, there's no one? You understand, and that's why you can't insult someone who doesn't exist. So we can conclude that we have no government, not just in the Supreme Council. Well, gentlemen, if we don't see him now. And the next one is a little bit of numbers. You know, I don't like to compare and combine, but when I'm told that it can't be, we're also known here as all of us as Greek experts, if the government isn't such an expert, we should become Greek experts. Let's say in Belarus there's 60 bracelets or in Russia there's 120 kilograms of Greek, first of all, I'd like to see that price? Because in the neighbouring country, Poland, literally, the same Greek woman costs nine pounds. Well, go over there and see for yourself. But I guarantee you, if we gave our government there, there would be 20 grams of kilograms there very quickly. I'm in on this. Experts. Therefore and when they tell us all that the former government is to blame, and fear God! When was the government to sow? A year ago, but it would rot if we sowed in winter, what are you talking about? I'd like to ask the Supreme Council Secretariat to send out calendars to the National Deputies to see that the February moon is winter, it starts in the spring, and they sow in the spring, and if you sow in the winter, I think that's the kind of harvest you collect. Try sowing. And I realize there were free economic zones and chicken hooves here. I don't know if the chicken hooves are coming, but the fact that the chicken legs were being transported through the free economic zone of the Donetsk district of Snow White or the village of Snow was the reason why. Yes, and the fault of our important government is that it has not been given to those who have now driven the agriculture. So, gentlemen, just yourself, just in the mirror, please, take a shot. You'll see the reflection in the mirror, not in the curve, but in the flat, curved face of today's economy. Gentlemen, you have to understand that from the previous 10 years, Janukovic was in power. I don't know, maybe even then he was sowing Greek in winter. But you don't call us to do that and take responsibility, you're not a coward, you're not afraid, you weren't afraid in the early '90s from a baseball battle to win your own markets. Then why are you hiding behind the opposition now? Admit that you're bad guys, and you're backing out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u104	Oleg Lazko, non-factional. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u105	The union of Chinese food products, called Greek, for Ukrainian consumers, will not really solve the problem of either Greek or other groups. Because the main problem in the country is the absence of a national producer. Try somewhere in Berlin, or Poland, which was asked by colleague Andrew, or France to find Ukrainian sausages, Ukrainian cheeses, Ukrainian oil, Ukrainian apples and anything Ukrainian. There is nowhere, nothing in any European country. Instead, in Kiev, we have everything imported from markets to supermarkets. And then you and I are going to cut through here: let's buy a quick one for the village or let's buy something else for the village. But first of all, the village needs a job, because when there's no work in the village, it doesn't have to be fast, it doesn't have to be a club, it doesn't have to be a school, it doesn't have to be a school, it doesn't have to be a school, it doesn't have to be a school, it doesn't have to be a school, it doesn't have to be a school. Although it's also necessary under decent conditions. That's what government should do. What does he do? In December of last year, a bill proposes to exempt imported dairy products from duty. Now we're being offered to free the Greek from payment and the Greek's tax. And I remember last October, the minister of agrarian politics, the Preacher. Standing on this rostrum, he said that for the first time, the government was paying such attention to the village. These are the consequences of the government's attention to the village. There is no Greek -- growth is essential to all other products. And when told, guilty or guilty of a previous government, all governments in 20 years are guilty. Because they turned Ukraine into a territory of consumption. To the import-use range, which is three times as expensive for us as it is abroad. Government, if this works, or tomorrow's new government, any government has to focus on rebuilding, restoring national production. This will make it possible to create millions of new jobs, provide people with jobs, pay. And Ukrainian shelves are supposed to have Ukrainian food on them. And if we have a Chinese Greek or an American Bush square in the Ukrainian stores, let's not be surprised what a village we have, what people don't have to pay for, why do we have to sell land, because there's no one left to work and they're not going to work on our land at all. That's the root of our country's problems. That's what we've given priority to imports instead of supporting, flying and hoarding our own manufacturer. This is the main task that the government should be doing, not bringing Greece here without customs or oil or anything else. Shame on you! And that's why I'm not voting for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Sergey Sass has the replica. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! My last name was called here. I'd like to comment as follows. We stressed, after making calculations, that in connection with such an affair of purchasing 25,000 tons of Greek, 65 million could be stolen into someone’s pocket and 75 million would not receive the budget. I wanted to pay attention to colleagues who said that these were the problems of the previous government. So the Greeks we have so far have a very strong culture and there is no winter Greek, so you've been sowing it. And I'm pointing out that you can sow it by mid-June. You were already in power in June. Greece does not belong to the list of cultures that are placed in accordance with the Law on the State Reserve. So, in summary, I want to say the following about your government and your Ministry of Agrarian Politics: theoretically, it's a mare, and practically, it doesn't matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the right to reprimand Yuri Karmazin is required. I appealed to him, mentioned his name. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u109	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin. I understand that you were reacting, thinking that somehow you wanted to offend or affect the interests of the People's Republic of China -- certainly not. They care for their state, and a government like us, they would have condemned and shot for a long time, and they would have forgotten. () [[Applause]] Because of this. And to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to get a repulsion, because you are the Head of the Supreme Council, and if the status of the Ukrainian National Deputy, the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Head of Government does not accept it, and you know it very well, then your status, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, is demeaning the status of the entire Ukrainian people. Because of that, I said that it would be better for an alien to lead this government and it would be much better than Mikola Janovich would.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Once again, using Yuri Anatoliyovich’s statement, please: We can find out as much as we want, let’s not forget other countries, other peoples, other nationalities. I think we'll be fine then. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals. Dear colleagues, I understand the reasons for all this criticism, but we have to solve this problem and close it down for our citizens. So if you have no objection, I'm going to put to the vote a proposal by the committee on the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals, in the paper that the committee proposed. Please vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:58:53]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you, dear colleagues. The factions, please. Region Party – 179, "BUT – Fatherland" – 1, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 8, communists – 24, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, National Party – 20, non-factional – 19. I thank you, dear colleagues, for, despite all the criticism and the fair, obviously, we have made the decision that needs to be made. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. We're after the break, I'm asking, honourable colleagues, attention, we're going to consider the appointment, the release of judges and the holding of temporary elections. And let's go to the draft law on anti-corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u111	Yes, invite the national deputies to the session room so that they can continue their work. Yes, dear colleagues, let us turn to the question of the election and release of judges. Reporters: Head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Samsin Igor Leonovich and Chief Justice Koleschenko Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Igor Leonovich will now report. Igor Leonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! According to part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of that Act, and reviewed the application of citizens, civil society organizations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities for the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who came to the Ukrainian Higher Qualifications Commission as a state during the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to serve as judges on an indefinite basis. According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, I introduce the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decision to recommend candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis. The following draft regulations are proposed for your consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u113	8187.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u114	Choose judges on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of the Dadashev Svetlana Vechaslavna District; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Jermaków Jurija Viacheslavovich; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Mr. Aksana Mikhaylovna; Kherchen city court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Lehchenka Valerius Pavlovich; The Lenin district court of the town of Vinitsa Zaytiv Andrija Yuriovich; The Pavlovgrad District Court of Dnipropetrovsk, Vladislav Eugeniyovich; The Snow White City Court of the Donetsk district of Kuchmu Vitali Volodymirovich; The Hartzian City Court of the Donetsk district of Sianco Olen Borissovna; The proletarian district court of Donetsk Korčina Oles Ivanovna; Bologna District Court of Zinevich Inna Vitaliyevna; Ordjonikidzewski District Court of Zaporozhye Gejec Yuliy Viktorovna; Shevchenkov District Court of Zaporozhye Datsuk Olga Igorovna The famous municipal court of the Kirovograd district of Shevtsov Natalija Viktorovna; Lysican city court of Luhansk district of Stakhov Natalija Volodymyrna; The Jamaican District Court of Suma District, Philonov Julius Alexandrovna; The Hussetin District Court of Ternopil district of Lisuk Irina Alexandrovna; The Derzaznian District Court of the Hmelnick district of Dvornik Oleg Stanislavovich; Borznian District Court of Chernigiv district of Lugovsz Alexandr Anatoliyovich; The Cave district court of Kyiv Podpalog Viacheslav Valeriyovich; The District District Administrative Court of Shooter Natal Victorian; The Kirovograd District Administrative Court of Pritulu Kostin Mikolajovic; Herson District Administrative Court Kravchenk Kostin Volodymyrovich; The farm court of the Zaporozhye district of Nikolainka Romana Anatoliyovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, are there no objections to the draft ruling? I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 8187]] Please vote. [[12:35:46]] For 302 Decision taken. The next draft of the regulation is registration number 8197-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u116	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Sharkenka Valerija Volodymyrovich, Zayatwy Svetlana Andriyevna, Larine Natal Alexandrovna; The Court of Appeal of the district of Evstafiev, Anatoliyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Malienko Natalia Volodymyrna; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv district of Sumsk Nadija Lvivna; the Court of Appeal of the Plains Region of Bohemia, Sergio Vasilovich, Rožina Jurija Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Shevchenko Victoria Valentinovna; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Garashchenka Dmitry Ruslanović; The Dnipropetroval Court of Appeal Prokopchuk Tamara Stepanovna; Kyiv's Administrative Court of Appeal, Fiduk Vitali Vasilovich; Lviv's Administrative Court of Appeal Glushko Igor Volodymirovich; Donetsk's Court of Appeal, Zubchenko Inna Volodymyrna, Sklaruk Olga Igorovna; Khachatrian Victoria Sergiyovna, Khachatrán’s Court of Appeal The honourable chairman, the distinguished national deputies, concerning Jaros, who on February 16, this year received a recommendation from the Higher Qualifications Commission to be elected to the Odessa Court of Appeal on an indefinite basis, was unable to attend the meetings of the Supreme Council for important reasons, she gave birth to a daughter just recently. [[Applause]] That is why the Rules state that her appearance is compulsory.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, indeed, there is also a telegram from Jaros Alla Ivanovna: "Please defer consideration of the question of my election as Judge of the Odessa Court of Appeal to another date in connection with childbirth." So maybe let's do it this way. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, dear colleagues, if you don't mind. We vote in favour of the draft decree, and then, if there's an insistence, we vote separately for Jaros. No warning? Then I'll bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, well, that's right, but according to the Rules, we'll vote separately, make a gift, and welcome the baby. Dear colleagues, no other warnings? I'll bet. Please, National Deputy Matchuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u118	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I have a warning about the appointment of the Boymistress Sergey Vasilovich. This judge is currently serving in a court of law, the court of Ravenski. And I have, according to what I have, more than 200 decisions were overturned during his work, which were passed by this judge. And I'm asking you to postpone making a decision finally on Sergey Vasilovich, so that we don't end up in a way that we can support. Well, as if the kind of support and promotion of the trial ladder up for false or unlawful decisions on the previous job. Therefore, it is necessary to give the commission to take a closer look at the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, let's move forward this way: we're about to remove the name of the Prime Minister Sergey Vasilovich, right? And Jaros Alla Ivanovna. Let's vote, and then let's take a personal look at these issues. No warning? I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the election of judges. To select judges previously elected as judges, registration number 8187-1, removing the name of the Prime Minister Sergio Vasilovich and Jaros Alla Ivanovna. Please vote. [[12:40:22]] For 296 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now regarding Jaros Alla Ivanovna, have come to understand why she cannot be present today. Therefore, if there is no objection on your part and the head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges does not deny it, we can, as an exception, put it to the vote for election. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal to elect Judge Odessa’s Court of Appeal Jaros Alla Ivanovna. Please vote. [[12:41:09]] For 314 Decision taken. Now it's about Boymistrous Sergey Vasilovich. Please, Igor Leonovich, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u120	Maybe that's true. I want to tell you that a letter came from the head of the Court of Appeal yesterday. We haven't been able to verify, because a week ago, the draft regulations were already in the Supreme Council. I absolutely do not deny that we should go over these facts more thoroughly, which are presented and raised here by the National MP. There's a letter from the head of the court. We will check again, and then we can bring it to the meetings of the Supreme Council to be objective. But there is no evidence that 200, 300, or 400 are cancelled. Because we don't make recommendations to such judges. And he's out there. In the Plain area, how many things are there, a small amount. We agree to check more.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Can we listen to the judge, actually? Let us listen to the judge, then we will make a decision in the light of all the circumstances and suggestions. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear Sergey Josephovich! You've been misinformed. I don't work in a court of law. I'm working in an administrative court. If the brothers, as a percentage of those who dealt with the aid cases for the children of war, were to consider more than 2,000 cases, and court practice changed because we were making specific payments, thus creating budgetary commitments. The practice was changed. And there went the accounting and payment practice. And we were fined these decisions formally. We made the right decision in behalf of the people. But we were fined for formal reasons. I agree that there's a lot of cancellations, but I want to say that this is an indicator in other courts, and not just the courts. Anything I can say to your judgment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! Two suggestions have been made, one proposal to postpone consideration, the second proposal that is in line with the Rules and the law to deal with the matter. That's why Vladimir Landik, perhaps the third is the proposal for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u124	Thank you. If the judge made a decision in behalf of the people, such a judge should be supported in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! Matchuk, please, microphone. And Pisarenko, microphone, Filipenko, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u126	I'm very sorry, but these formulations are very accurate, proven, legal for the benefit of the people. And the other judge who overturned this decision was against the people or what? Then let's invite the judge and let the judge go free, so we can't. I insist that this should be checked, I don't blame him for anything, but it needs checking and making an impartial decision, what is it, for the benefit of the people?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u127	Please, Philipenka's microphone, and then Valery Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! We should watch as it is written in the law and decide as it is written, and it states that the High Qualifying Commission is a candidate, the Supreme Council is voting in favour of this candidature, it can support it or vote against it. But postponing on the basis of voter statements may not be logical, especially as Victor Leonovich said that the judge was being examined does not even confirm that the number of decisions that were overturned is entirely vocal. And now, I think we're starting to recreate that practice again, which we've already forgotten when everyone gets up and keeps score with the judge, or does he have any orders? Let's support this judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u129	Valerius Bealz, then Sulkovsky, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u130	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! If there is any doubt, there is an offer, let's not torture Igor Leonovich, we will not torture the entire composition of the Supreme Council and the candidate himself. Carry on, the Higher Qualifying Commission will study and inform us next time, then it will be objective in relation to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u131	Paul Sulkowski, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you know, there are different interpretations here, I myself from the Plains, this judge I hardly know. In fact, the various statements come in and what the ex-governor of the Plains spoke in advance, I want to say that we know how the orange team worked with the courts. They're really, I'm supporting my colleague Landik, who's really innocent people were sitting there, and the evil oligarchs, who were bullying and stealing Ukraine, are walking in the wild to this day. But, dear colleagues, I am more supportive of today's interviewer in the rostrum, and I would also like to support him that there was also an appeal to them on the committee, literally yesterday. I also support that nothing is going to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u134	Thank you. And that's why I also support today that nothing will happen if, after one parliamentary week of plenary, we are also this person, and I'm convinced that maybe when the test goes through and there's no evidence of a violation of the judge, then we vote and he'll go where he wants to go today and he's planning to continue working.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've been talking about this situation here, that when we take legislative acts that the state can't serve, and then all of this goes to the courts, we make hostages of the judges of what we decide, especially during election campaigns. So given the proposals, let's move forward like this, the first proposal was from Igor Leonovich, the head of the High Qualification Commission of Judges, to come back to the consideration of this candidate in a week, that is, the next plenary week. And the second proposal that comes out of the law and the Rules is to consider the issue of this candidature right now. I'll put these motions to the vote in order of their coming. First. Defer until the next plenary week, until the next plenary Thursday to discuss the issue of Boimystruk Sergey Vasilovich. Please identify yourself. [[12:49:09]] For-95 The decision is not supported. I now put to the vote a motion for the election of the judge of the Court of Appeal of the Plains region of Boysystruk Sergey Vasilovich. Please vote. [[12:49:37]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u136	Please, Igor Leonovich, next 8187-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u137	Choose judges on an untimely basis: Ivanov Larissa Bronislavna, Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine; The Suvorov district court of Odessa Derkacheva Alexander Viacheslavovich Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! Questions, no warnings? I'm betting on a draft decision on the election of judges. Please vote. [[12:50:28]] For 309 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u139	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! I would like to welcome the judges for whom we have just made a positive decision. And wish them positive results at work and in good health. [[Applause]] I invite the head of the Justice Council of Kolesnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich to announce the next draft of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u141	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Honourable People's Deputies, Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting on February 15, this year, in accordance with articles 126, 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law of Ukraine "On the Judiciary and Status of Judges", article 31 of the Law "On the Higher Council of Justice" examined the materials on the release of judges under general conditions and decided to apply the relevant application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In all the judges, their actual will is revealed. There is no adverse influence or coercion when making a decision on exemption. The Supreme Council of Justice proposes that the judges be released. Dismissed from the positions of judges: the Court of Appeal of the Vinnitsk district of the Vinnitsk district of Kolkow Oksana Vladislavna - in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Pavelnka Volodymyr Pavlovich - in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv district of Zenchenko Tetjana Sergiyevna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Kyiv District Court of Donetsk Baulina Volodymyr Vasilovich - in connection with the application for resignation; The Great District Court of the Zitomir District of Predry Vasil Samylovich - in view of the inability to exercise his health authority; In connection with the achievements of sixty-five years, the Red Cross city court of Lviv County, Adamovich, Bogdan Mikhaylovna; Mankovsky District Court of the Cherkas region of Xenofontov Vladimir Sergiyyovich - in connection with the application for release at your own request. Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u142	Yes, no respectable colleagues, no questions and no warnings?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u143	A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8165]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u144	Thank you. [[12:52:58]] For 299 Decision taken. Thank you, too. Honorable colleagues, let us thank the judges who have worked hard in their positions and who wish them good health. [[Applause]] Yes, Filipenko, with motive. It's not about motive, it's about further work of ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u145	Thank you. Taking advantage of the opportunity, we have a small debt before the High Council of Justice, before society. We cannot release two judges who have been in the Supreme Council for a long time. These are the judges of the Borispil District Court of Bondarenko and Zaviruch, who robbed the Ministry of Defense for 9 million dollars and sold out all the land. Remember, we postponed them because they did not come to the meetings of the Supreme Council when they misused their rights. So far, we have neither called them nor made any decisions. Maybe somehow we can solve this question in order to put a dot in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u146	I ask you to prepare these documents if they're in the Supreme Council. We must immediately take them to the Supreme Council. I'm asking the camera and the committee, according to the next Thursday, when we're considering the appointment and release of the judges, to submit these nominations. The thing is, if they were prepared they'd be here. I will now ask you to find out the device and provide information. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to make a decision on the appointment of out-of-court local elections. This question is reported by Upper Sergei Petrovich, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. Dear colleagues, such a request, Sergey Petrovich will tell us why we should make these decisions, then we will proceed to the vote by every decision. No objections? To save us some time. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u147	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule at its meetings on February 17 and March 2, 2011, discussed the concerns of individual local councils regarding the appointment of out-of-order elections for rural, rural, and urban heads. A total of 34 local authorities. 29 are village heads, rural heads, two village heads, and three city heads. The reasons for the early termination of their mandate are as follows: according to your own wishes, i.e. the filing of the application, 29 cases, in connection with the death of the chosen heads, 4 and the verdict of the court, 1. As a result of these issues, the committee concluded that it would recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the appointment of individual rural, rural, city heads on Sunday, May 15, 2011, by adopting appropriate decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The projects are being distributed, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the draft regulations. Then I'll read it and we'll vote. Sergey Petrovich, maybe you could sit down, if there are questions, then we will. I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the successive elections of the Head of Agriculture of Gabriel. [[Gavril Rural Council of the region of Ivano-Frankiv]] [[8160]] [[12:56:36]] For 282 I'll take the order. Draft Decree 8160-1 is the appointment of the Kapustinian Rural Head election. [[Kapustina Rural Council of the Kyiv Region]] [[12:57:05]] For 291 Decision taken. Draft Decree 8160-2 is about the appointment of the successive elections of the Popovian Rural Head. [[The Popov Rural Council of the District of Sumo]] [[12:57:33]] For 291 Decision taken. 8160-3 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Peregonian Rural Head (Proegonian Rural Council of the Obukhiv district of Kyiv region). [[12:57:59]] For 288 Decision taken. 8160-4 is the appointment of Michael-Laryn village head election. [[Mikhaylo-Laryn village council of the Yellow Area of the Mikolai region]] [[12:58:26]] For 290 Decision taken. 8160-5 is the appointment of the successive election of the Pisarov Rural Head (Pisarov Rural Council of the Volocic Region of the Hmeljna Region). [[12:58:51]] For 299 Decision taken. 8160-6 – on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Orlovian Rural Head (Orlovska Rural Council of the Primorski District of Zaporozhye Region). [[12:59:18]] For 293 Decision taken. 8160-7 – on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Zagreb Rural Head (Zagrebel village council of the Sosnic district of Chernigiv region). [[12:59:44]] For 297 Decision taken. 8160-8 is the appointment of the next election of the Kustin Rural Head (Custin Rural Council of the Plain region). [[13:00:09]] For 292 Decision taken. 8160-9 is the appointment of the pre-elections of the Pregnacian Rural Head (Pregnacian Rural Council of the Zoločov Region of Lviv Region). It's a historical name. [[13:00:37]] For 299 Decision taken. 8160-10 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Lugansk Rural Head (Lugansk Rural Council of the Mariinsk Region of the Donetsk Region). [[13:01:03]] For 298 Decision taken. 8160-11 – on the appointment of the second-in-command election of the Kidanian Rural Head (Chinese Rural Council of the Boguslav District of Kyiv Region). [[13:01:29]] For 296 Decision taken. 8160-12 is the appointment of the successive election of the Basilian Rural Head (Vasiliv Village Council of the Romanian District of Suma Region). [[13:01:54]] For 291 Decision taken. 8160-13 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Zhukovsky Rural Head (Zukiv Village Council of the Ternopil Region). [[13:02:20]] For 292 Decision taken. 8160-14 is the appointment of the second-in-command election of the Cheichinsky Rural Head (Ternopilsky Rural Council). [[13:02:50]] For 305 Decision taken. 8160-15 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Jaroslavian Rural Head (Jaroslavec Rural Council of the Krolevetsky District of Suma Region). [[13:03:16]] For 294 Decision taken. 8160-16 – on the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Blue Eye Rural Head (Synookowiska Rural Council of the Zolotan Region of the Cherka region). [[13:03:44]] For-300 Decision taken. 8160-17 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Kachin Village Head (Kachin Village Council of the Nahim district of Sevastopol). [[13:04:12]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. 8160-18 is the appointment of the right-wing village head (Desnian Village Council of the Koselec Region of Chernigiv Region). [[13:04:45]] For 294 Decision taken. 8160-19 is the appointment of the successive election of the City of Žmerinsk (the town of Viennese County). [[13:05:11]] For 295 Decision taken. 8160-20 — on the appointment of the successive elections of the City Head of D.C. (Corsian City Council of the district of Cernigiv). [[13:05:37]] For 121 The decision is not taken. 8160-21 is the appointment of the Caitanian Rural Head (Cathani Village Council of the Catherinopil region of the Cherka region). [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:06:05]] For 291 Decision taken. 8160-22 is the appointment of the New Peterian Rural Head election (Novopetrovska Rural Council of the Lower Syrian Region of the Hersonian Region). [[13:06:33]] For 299 Decision taken. 8160-23 – on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Pirizkovsky Rural Head (Pyrizkow Rural Council of the Malin district of Žitomir Region). [[13:07:01]] For 291 Decision taken. 8160-14 is about the appointment of the next election.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u149	I'm sorry, 8160-24, about the appointment of the Pokropivnian Rural Head election. [[Popropivanya Rural Council of the Kozov district of Ternopil district]] [[13:07:40]] For-300 Decision taken. 8160-25 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Tavaljana Rural Head (Tavlžan Rural Council of the Dvoričan District of Kharkiv Region). [[13:08:07]] For 301 Decision taken. 8160-26 – on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Vesnian Rural Head (Vesnian Village Council of the Starocostinian Region of the Hmeljna Region). [[13:08:35]] For 291 Decision taken. 8160-27 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the village head of Žerebkow (Serebkow village council of the Podvolocchi district of Ternopil district). [[13:09:04]] For 294 Decision taken. 8160-28 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Bogru Rural Head (Bogru Rural Council of the Bogorodčany District of Ivano-Frankov Region). [[13:09:32]] For-300 Decision taken. 8160-29 – on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Zaryvinetsek Rural Head (Zaryvinetsek Rural Council of the Butchik District of Ternopil Region). [[13:10:04]] For-300 Decision taken. 8160-30 – on the appointment of the successive election of the Presadavian Rural Head (Presadavian Rural Council of the Yellow Area of the Mikolai Region) [[13:10:31]] For 301 Decision taken. 8160-31 is the appointment of the Marjanov Rural Head (Maryanov Village Council of the Donetsk Region). [[13:10:58]] For 299 Decision taken. 8160-32 – on the appointment of the next election of the Nesterovetsk Rural Head (Nesterovetsk village council of the Danube Region of the Hmelnitsk Region). [[13:11:27]] For-300 Decision taken. 8160-33 is the appointment of the consecutive election of the Vovčan City Head (Vovčan City Council of the Vovčan District of Kharkiv Region). [[13:11:57]] For 305 Decision taken. Thank you. What, what? Let's do factions per minute, let's exchange thoughts. Please, who's coming from. Viennese, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u150	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, today we have seen twice as many standards as local self-government. On another occasion, the vast majority in the Party of Regions showed that in those areas, in those cities, villages and villages where they had no chance to win, they did not vote in favour of the election, because in those rural councils and those towns where there is a very big corruption interest, because the land there is quite attractive, there are their secretaries who will sign the documents they need, and therefore they obviously have no chance of winning, and therefore they do not vote for the elections in those villages and cities where the elections would go as well as in Ukraine. Whether the city head has been released or the village has to be elected and therefore the Party of the Regions has to be elected. I urge all voters not to vote for the Party of Regions in those cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask that we don't have agitation and contradiction. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u152	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! I want to refute false information. There can be no way for the Party of the Regions to win. Write to yourself: We have won, we have won, and we will always win!Oh, my God! [[three exclamation marks]] Because we are always with the people!!Oh, my God! [[four exclamation marks]] But I want to say, to note the positive dynamic, if you haven't voted 30-40 percent before, look, you've supported us, and in just two places you haven't voted and so on. But in general, Parliament is working constructively, you are on the right track because you support us and the President in working for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u153	Sergey the Upper, please. May I have your attention, fellow officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u154	Dear voters and honourable fellow MPs! I want to say that in the question of the appointment of out-of-court elections there can be no minority support, or we support the majority, there is an exclusive exercise of our constitutional powers. Because it is according to the Constitution that only the Supreme Council can appoint out of turn elections and I want to say that this is not a right, that is an obligation. And this is a double approach when we vote 32 out of 34 decrees, and we don't vote two out of all the decisions that didn't raise a single question on the committee, not on the representatives of the Party of Regions, not on the representatives of the other representatives of the majority, because they were the people who were elected, they didn't write a statement, they made an authorization. Because a person may have realized that he could not exercise authority under these circumstances. So I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, put this question to the vote and do your duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u155	Thank you. I'm asking our colleague, First Deputy Prime Minister of Crimea to stay in bed, please don't do this in the hall. Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u156	Thank you, Oleg Easy. I am now addressing the inhabitants of the city of Corsus, the famous city of Stors of Chernigiv. It was just by the command of a colleague of Chechtov, who, by the way, had been in this city repeatedly, that a faction of regions refused to vote for a city’s head in this glorious city. Because the former city head is now appointed the head of the administration. So Mr. Mikhailo demonstrated to the whole country that the Party of Regions is afraid to lose in Cors. Your defeat will begin in Cors, and it will end all over the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u157	Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u158	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Oleg Zarubinsky People’s Party For the sake of objectivity, I took the floor just now to discuss whether or not to vote in favour of the city’s head. Now, I have an open vote sheet, and I'm an honorary colleague, and I'd like you to notice that the NS has given 10 votes, and the Yulia Timoshenko Block has 35 votes, yes, 10 votes, well, 70 votes in a faction. So I offer to look at myself all the time and to criticize others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u159	Replica, Mikhaila Chechcheva. And let's finish our discussion on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u160	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to respond to a fiery speaker from the former BUT faction -- the name of the letter "L" -- about some fear or fear of losing the Party of the Regions. I'll give you a quick answer in Odessa: Don't wait!Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! It's a Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u162	Thank you, the Communist faction Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! I would like to ask representatives of a political camp to not raise one another in the Hall of the Supreme Council. I understand that MPs know what they do when they vote one way or another, first. And secondly, I'd like to turn to our voters: let's think about it. After the local elections, more than half a year later, more than 30 positions have been vacant. This may also indicate that we are not very careful; we are not very thorough in our choice of candidates. Let us treat the selection of local leaders with due respect, because we need to understand that today is much more dependent on local leaders, at least no less than on the leadership of the state to solve the many problems that concern citizens. So I'm asking the voters to be more balanced about the selection of candidates for local elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, let's still agree with the logic of Peter Stepanovich Zybenko. Nothing catastrophic happened. Think of the decisions we made as we voted. Maybe there's a policy. But we should not teach each other how to live. There is a secretary, and people have chosen. They can work. Let's, dear fellows, then we'll find some other arguments. If necessary, we'll be speaking from the faction. That's it. That is why we have concluded our consideration of the matter. Dear colleagues, let's put it this way: I would ask you now to support me. We would consider now until the Minister of Justice comes forward, who should be present when considering the Anti-Corruption Act. He waited until noon for us, and he immediately left for the meeting. Let us consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving land management in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[Registration number 7035]] The rapporteur is the head of the Kaletnik Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u164	Let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, let's not make a fair complaint, I'll put it to the vote. Who's in favour of reviewing the draft law now, please vote. [[Registration number 7035]] [[13:20:32]] For 255 Decision taken. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u166	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the committee discussed a bill that entered the committee on November 4th and was accepted, which was adopted on November 4th in the first reading. On January 13, this year, he was prepared for his second reading, discussed by the Supreme Council, and the results of his consideration were directed at rereading the second reading. During the drafting of the bill, there were only 65 proposals and amendments to the committee, 38 of which were made in the preparation of the draft for the second reading and 27 amendments to the draft. Of the total number of amendments, 53 are included, 12 are rejected. In view of the above, the Committee suggests recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill on second reading and generally as a law. In addition, in the process of processing we have explained, some need to make adjustments that, technically speaking, have been made in this text. I'd like to vote them first, if I may, and then I'll vote now. there are corrections found by the committee itself when printing a comparative table.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u167	We're gonna go to the repairs right now, and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u168	Okay. Okay. Then let's go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u169	Yes, the 2nd Amendment of Yuri Carmazin is taken into account in an editorial way. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u170	The three of them
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u171	The 3rd is listed in editorial terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u172	Yes. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u173	4th count.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u174	I'm only 33.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u175	Thirty-three, yeah. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u176	Thirty-three. Then the 5's counted, the 6's edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u177	Let's go to 33. Over there, over here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u178	No, we have the 10th amendment, Vladimir Mikhailovich, at 10th amendment we took into account the 10th amendment of Beazenka and the Roman's Weaver, and it printed "refused." The thing is, it's technically here, and the editor needs to be done, which sounds exactly like the Beazenka-Takka amendment. So citizens only apply to one council, not everyone, when they want to privatize the land. So I'd like to either vote 10 amendments, or not support the rejected committee, as printed here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, in terms of logic, we need to vote in favour of Amendment 10. So please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u180	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u181	I'm voting on the proposal to support the 10 amendments. It's about support. [[13:23:58]] For 256 The correction is counted. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u182	And then the 14th amendment is once again the same Tkacha, Bevjenko, which is printed here -- rejected. I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u183	She's automatically, her honorary colleagues, since we've already counted her there, she's automatically counted here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u184	No, it's different.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u185	There is concern for the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u186	They're different. These are various amendments, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u187	I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. Please vote. [[13:24:38]] For 257 Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u189	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u190	Here, if Yuri Anatolyevich does not object, we go all the way to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u191	33 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u192	33 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u193	Please, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u194	Yuri Carmazin. I thank you very much for taking into account the previous amendments. I would consider the necessary part of article 123 to be a part of this article: "The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the executive body or the local government within the limits of their mandate in the monthly period discusses the issue and gives permission to develop a draft land scheme for the removal of land or gives a reasoned refusal to grant it. That's what I suggested. The findings or arguments state that it is not supported by the Supreme Council in its second reading of the bill. But for that, there is a second read that is completely repetitive in the process of second reading. Because of this, Gregory Mikolaiovich, I'd like to hear your motivation, maybe you're changing your point of view and considering this amendment, the more it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u195	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u196	Your Honor Yuri Anatoliyovich, you have not read the sixth paragraph in this amendment, there are two points in you, and these two paragraphs were not supported at the time of the vote. And in the committee, we discussed these terms that you're giving here, and you came to the conclusion that they're supposed to be legislation, but in a slightly different way. So we decided to accept the decision of the Supreme Council in our second reading. You just shorten their terms, and they may not make it. These are important issues of the earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u197	Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on this amendment? He insists. Oh, no? Please, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u198	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I really wanted to ask you a question. Once the experts are saying that they're going to arrive in another term, they may not be able to make it, even though I wanted there to be less bureaucratic fiber.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u199	You want two weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u200	Yeah. That's about 33 and 34 amendments, which are exactly the same in this case, I don't insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u201	Thank you. 35th is yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u202	Yuri Anatoliyovich, 35 and 36 of your amendments, which were rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u203	Thank you. Amendment 35 and there and 36. They refer to what part of article 123 reads: "The Board of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the executive authority or the local self-governance authority in granting land to use or leaving the problem without consideration may be prosecuted. I don't understand why it's rejected, because it's provided for by the Constitution, that the courts refer to all the legal relations that exist in the state, including that there is no arbitraryity allowed by the local authorities. No logical, let's say, the committee's justification did not give, but it still doesn't take that amendment into account. So I would like you, Gregory Mikolaiovich, or to consider the amendment, or to explain why you don't want to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u204	Thank you. Jury Anatoliyovich, given your truly highly professional knowledge of jurisprudence, we will then find in all the articles in all the laws to repeat what has already been accepted, that discontent or refusal of the authorities can be charged in all cases before the courts. And they're both provided for by law and the Constitution, so you have to write around.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 35th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:29:22]] For 20 No correction supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u206	Next amendment by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin 42.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u207	So it's taken into account editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u208	Edited. Maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u209	Are you insisting on her, Yuri Anatolyovich? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u210	No, I don't insist, because it's very big.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u211	And 43 is the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u212	And 43 are neatly accounted for. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u213	And I don't insist on 43 either, because it's huge. And I realize that when the committee is assembled, he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u214	I've balanced.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u215	I counted it, yeah. But as for the court, I think you should go back to this amendment, because it doesn't answer, in principle, the Constitution, if we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u216	Yes. Yes, all the other amendments are included. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u217	There's another Zabarsky amendment, 53rd. On the contrary, the committee took it into account, but in the end we also had a typographical error. "The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the separation of state and municipal lands. He's in charge."and I need a "agreement." And below again:' and manages water lands.", - also "agreement." So I would ask for this clarification, because it's already an amendment that's all taken into account and correct, just to change, to allow, at the end of the legal regime, the word in this amendment, 53rd, "arrangement" and "arrangement" to replace the words "agreement" and "agreement" so that we don't take over non-constitutional powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to put this to a vote. Attention, please. - to confirm this amendment with the clarifications that the head has spoken of. [[Amendment 53]] There instead of the word "arrangement," it's "agreement." I'm voting for support for this amendment with clarifications: instead of the words "order" write down "agreement." Please vote. [[13:32:03]] For 247 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u219	And another, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. Please, in all the final editions, in all the final articles, delete the words "district administrations and district councils," because it was planned to be distributed to Ukraine, in all areas, but we will then violate the 116th Rules. The bill only applies to lands in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, so those innovations that were intended to be distributed to the district government should be removed. So I would also like to vote in favour of the final deletion of the words "district administrations, district councils" in all the articles, for the purpose of giving a mandate to the Legal Authority of the Supreme Council: to make such editorials.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, since the issue is of a principled nature, I would like to vote in favour of removing the mention of district governments and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u221	District councils.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u222	Councils, and district councils, with due regard for the technical preparation of the law for signature. I would like to vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u223	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u224	[[13:33:38]] For the 250. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u225	Please support, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and vote in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u226	That means I have to push the button, too, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u227	No, we didn't vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u228	I'm kidding. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u229	Dear Grigory Mihajlovich, I would like not to make the mistake of not having to write and apply for the establishment of the veto, I draw your attention to the observation of the Chief Legal Authority, paragraph two, which refers to the fact that, in the view of the Chief Legal Authority, the marked changes in the transitional period are limited to the authorization of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I stress, Ukraine for the removal of particularly valuable lands envisaged in part nine of article 149 of the Code, such as the removal of land of state property that is in constant use, forests over one hectare, and article 150 of the Earth Code on Particularly Valuable Lands. In addition, these changes limit the rights of local governments in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to manage the land of water, historical and cultural, forestry, health, recreation, natural and other conservation purposes. I'd like to hear from you re.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u230	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u231	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the amendments that were voted out have just been removed and that we've been motivated to respond to the observation of scientific and scientific management. The very existence of these amendments, which were printed in a comparative table, gave rise to such comments. Now we've swapped them, and I think the legal science department is going to be. The science-expert management will accept it correctly. That's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve land administration in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[Registration number 7035]] Please vote. [[13:36:25]] For 252 The law is passed. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the prevention law. draft Law on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption in Ukraine. [[Registration number 7487]] In discussing this issue, Justice Minister Lavrinovich is present. As reported by Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov. Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u233	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption in Ukraine, registered number 7487, completed by the Supreme Council on 23 December 2010. Each of the 432 entities represented by the law enforcement initiative has been carefully processed by the committee, as well as the two groups. The first is 257 proposals for chapter I-VII, which include 33 articles of the bill. Two thirds of these suggestions touch on the six articles. The question of a comprehensible device is the first article. This is article 4th, the matter of gifts – article 8th, special examination – article 11, financial control – article 12, anti-corruption activities of public institutions – article 18. The second group of proposals is the proposals for chapter VIII of the Final Position. Such proposals are 175. They are mainly concerned with the amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences to the Criminal Code. In total, almost 40 percent of the proposals that do not alter the overall structure of the bill submitted by the President of Ukraine are taken into account. The committee supported the proposals of the National Deputies of Stretovic, Voropeyeva, Jožika, Knazević, Kožemjakina, Logwinenka, Miroshnicka Volodymira, Pilpenka, Pisarenko, Ruslan Knazevitch, and others. Proposals for removal from the list of corruption entities of members of district, territory, and district election committees are taken into account. It should be noted that the committee was primarily based on the fact that the content of the bill should be consistent with the world anti-corruption standards: the UN Convention against Corruption, the European Criminal and Civil Conventions of which Ukraine is a party. It is also important to stress that the anticorruption measures proposed by the President of Ukraine take into account possible links between corruption and organized crime and money laundering, consistent with the 19 - way principle of combating corruption. Dear colleagues, you know that we are working today out of a clean sheet because since January 1st of this year, the Anti-Corruption Act has become invalid, and since January 5, the Anti-Corruption Act, which has caused a genuine anti-corruption vacuum in the state. At its February 2nd meeting, the Committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption in the Second Reading and Overall. Please note an additional comparative table for the bill that was approved at the March 1 committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u234	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u235	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u236	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u237	Before moving to an article-by-article discussion and voting, honourable colleagues, please take into account the inaccuracies of the comparative table in the part concerning the final wording of sub-paragraph three of the first part of article 4, which replaces the words: "which are financed by the State or local budget" with the words "private law irrespective of the legal form, in accordance with the law", is position 49 on page 18. Dear colleagues! Today's state of affairs has led to the only prudent outcome of the legislature – approval of the basic anti-corruption legislation proposed by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u238	Dear colleagues! First of all, I very much ask the deputies to be in the session room, because we're going to have to vote a lot, and we can't vote for separate articles, for individual amendments, so break the law. I'd like to ask you to invite the deputies to the session room so that we can work for half an hour for a break, and then at the evening session we can continue to work on this document. Dear colleagues! As for the name and preamble, no warnings? No, there's not, there's a number of suggestions. Please note, I will now put to the vote the name of the law and the preamble to the law, please vote, the name and the preamble. [[13:41:59]] For 275 Dear colleagues! Article one, amendment four, Yuri Carmazin, insists on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u239	Vladimir Mihajlovich, Yuri Karmazin, this amendment is technical in nature, I believe and believe that certain parts of the article should be numbered, the committee does not think that this is necessary. That's why I don't think we should vote, it's not defined by vote, it's a technical amendment. It's just that I think it would be legally better formed in that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u240	Thank you. 5 revisions. Victor Schwetz. I'm sorry, please, let's go back to the 3 revisions, I missed it. Please, Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, it seems that the law proposed by the President to combat corruption is nothing more than an act to legitimize corruption. The bill is no different from the previous act, which was repealed by the overwhelming majority. I understood why, yesterday, when I gave a declaration on the income of a civil servant, I did not see a declaration by the President or by the Prime Minister or by ministers or by anyone. With regard to the text of the bill, this law does not solve any problems. First of all, there's no real declaration of the costs of government officials. Secondly, this law has excluded all relatives, who, in fact, have written down all the property of government officials. Thirdly, the legal responsibility provided for by this law is not a real responsibility. In view of this, first of all, I insist on voting for my amendment, and second of all, it's not fighting corruption, it's imitating the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u242	Please, regarding the 3 amendments, John Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u243	The general slogan of the election front has a specific amendment to the list of senior officials. But the list of senior officials of the state is given in article 23 of the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act: the senior officials are the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And the unification proposed by Yatzenuk complements and flattens the category of senior officials in the state, so the committee unanimously rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u244	I'm voting on Amendment 3, Arsenia Yatzenyuk. [[13:45:04]] For-51 Correction not supported. Amendment 5 Victor Sweden, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u245	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Ivan Vasilovich! I would like to start by reminding you of the following: on March 1, this year, I submitted my 9 - page suggestions to the Committee, the Main Committee, according to part two of Rule 118 of the Supreme Council Rules. Unfortunately, these suggestions are not included in the reference table. So I ask you to let me know on what basis the committee did not include these proposals, which I, as a national MP, have made in the prescribed law. That's the first one. The other one. As far as this is concerned, I would like to draw attention to the fact that our legislation does not properly address the question of the relationship of subordination between individuals. So it seems to me that the introduction of this definition can just be very confusing to apply, directly apply the law in practice. So I suggest you remove this from the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u246	Would you please take the seat of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u247	March 1st. I don't know how the amendments could have been considered. We considered in the first reading the law on December 23 plus 14 days after the Rules -- this is about the beginning of January, passed January, furious if you pass it. I didn't see, for example, documents like the head of the working group, that's the first time. And secondly, what you're giving is the 5th amendment to the definition of the term "direct subordination" is required by law. It is the need to ensure that the law is applied effectively in practice. Because this term is used in article 9 of the "limits to the work of loved ones". The committee therefore rejected your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u248	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on Amendment 5 by Viktor Dmitrovitch Sweden. [[13:47:28]] For-60 Correction not supported. Now 6 adjustments are made for loved ones. Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u249	Dear Ivan Vasilovich, the fact that I don't have any amendments in the working group doesn't mean that they're not sent to the committee that's designated chief. So I would like to ask you, when there is a break, to find out. And I'd like to get a clear and clear answer for me. As for the amendment, I wanted to say the following. The bill’s proposed criteria, namely, those related to shared life, as well as mutual rights and obligations, do not allow for a clear determination of the existence of family relationships with the subject of responsibility for corruption. So I insist that my application be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u250	The amendment was considered on the committee. But even more clearly, we think there's a definition of the author of the bill, which is given by the President of Ukraine. So it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote Amendment 6, by Victor Dmitrovitch of Sweden. [[13:49:00]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I will read to everyone to understand what is left of the wording for loved ones. "These marriages, children, parents, siblings, grandparents, grandchildren, adoptions, adoptions, and other persons who live together, are linked to a shared life and have mutual rights and responsibilities with the subject," mentioned in article 4, paragraph 1, of this law. That's why I quoted it, because there's a lot of discussion about it. The 7th Amendment of Arsenius Yatsenuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, this is about who to refer to as senior officials in Ukraine. So, according to the committee, the senior officials are only the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The question is, are the ministers and the Head of the Security Service and the Head of the National Bank, and the Attorney-General are not senior officials? So my proposal goes up to the next one. The one identified by the category of senior officials will be criminally responsible for acts of corruption. I suggest you expand this list first. And secondly, to include deputy heads of ministries and other central authorities and also deputy attorney general, deputy heads of the Security Service, deputy heads of the National Bank of Ukraine. So that, basically, the prisons aren't overcrowded.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u253	Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u254	I've already given an explanation on this subject. Many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, The committee clearly stated that there are already definitions in the law, they are really senior officials, as we called them -- President, Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister. Others, yes, are high-ranking, everyone has rank and so forth, and ministers, and everything else, but to call them superior officials, to compare them to those first persons, the committee is clearly expressed. It is to destroy the very notion of senior officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u255	Let's write it down, let's write it down for senior officials and let's write it down a little bit lower.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u256	Let's do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u257	Valerius Beales, please. Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u258	Dear colleagues, we're actually defining subjects of corruption. They are all provided for in article 4, paragraph 1, of the first paragraph. Therefore, the offer of a colleague named Yatsenuk is totally unprincipled. And so the terminology, the definition that is the superior person who is lower, they all remain the subjects of the offence. All of it. So an active or proposed project is absolutely real and, as it were, a work project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u259	I'll bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u260	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on Amendment No 7, by Arsenius Yatzenuk. [[13:52:10]] Z-62 No correction supported. Amendment 8 counted? Did we put her to the vote? Doesn't anyone insist? Amendment 9 Victor Sweden, please microphone. When it comes to defining corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, in the bill along with the signs of corruption as a social danger and illegality, the bill's author rightly defines "punitiveness". The literal interpretation of the text of the proposed bill shows that the offence can only be recognized as a corruption, I stress, only if the offence is foreseen at the same time, I emphasize, criminal, administrative, civil and disciplinary responsibility. In my view, such an approach seems unacceptable. That's why you put this in order to divide it. In general, I think, Ivan Vasilovich, there are many definitions in the bill that deliberately confuse this law so that it cannot be applied in real life. Thank you. And at the same time, I would like you to explain to the Supreme Council what is the difference between a ministerial servant and an official who is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u263	Complete your opinion, please. Please, everything, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u264	Well, by the way, Victor Dmitrovitch, you know, get confused, nobody gets confused, nobody gets confused before. And before that, it was written in the same way as this article by the President. So no one was confused. And you're making your amendment, or you're making it in a way that, in fact, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, no one can be held responsible for the same thing twice. But if a person is drawn to criminal responsibility, let's say, what can't he bear, say, civil liability? On the contrary, she is obliged to bear this responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, the amendment is being voted on. One minute, Victor Schwetz's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u266	Dear John Vasilovich, the point is that because of the legal structure of the law that did not act, it was stopped several times by the Supreme Council. These positions didn't work, so you're saying in vain that these positions existed, that they were applied. They were not used because they were thus designed to define the legal definition of these concepts. Please, Ivan Vasilovich, take another look at this. It is extremely important because it will make it impossible to use it for corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u267	Our committee is monitoring the practice of judicial and administrative practice, as here, there have never been any problems. I can assure you there was no problem here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u268	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 9 of Victor Sweden. Please vote. [[13:56:01]] For-61 Correction not supported. But at the same time, Ivan Vasilovich, we need to clarify. On the left hand side, it says "civil and disciplinary responsibility," and you propose an amendment to the final text of "civil or disciplinary responsibility."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u269	No, so let's subtract "a" and, as we're counting, it's going to be "criminal, administrative, civil-law, disciplinary responsibility." Let's put it that way. Any of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u270	Valerius Beales on this matter. So what's going to happen when one breach immediately becomes all kinds of responsibility? Valerius Beales, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u271	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm asking for your attention! The problem is that the bill provides for four types of engagement or responsibility: criminal, administrative, civil and disciplinary. I would like to say that in the body of the law, if a person commits a crime, he carries it, we want it or we don't want it, civil liability. The same law stipulates that if there is administrative responsibility, it is not usually, but that a person is exempt from office in a mandatory manner. That's why it stands. So I would like nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, let's make sure we have it. One minute, we're going to set up here to have a dialogue between the author of the amendment and the reporter. But let's define now. The left column was written as "civil liability and disciplinary responsibility." At the same time, automatically, without any amendments and proposals for an amendment on the right-hand side, "civil liability or disciplinary responsibility" appears. Then let me put it to the vote now, my honourable colleagues, in this way: let me read out the amendment proposed in the right column, and we will vote on it. And then we'll film any problems. Yeah? Please, on this point, Alexander Lavrinovich, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u273	The honourable national deputies, and the proposal made by the President of Ukraine, contain all the right signs. Of course, when it comes to wrongdoing, it cannot be drawn twice by a citizen. But we have a whole series of laws that allow us to attract for one act that has signs of crime, and criminal responsibility, both civil and administrative, and may even be disciplinary, including. That is, if discipline is imposed on a person who has committed a crime, as established by the court, it does not release him from criminal punishment. Therefore, the text that was written in the introduction of the draft law by the President of Ukraine is entirely in line with the realities of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u274	Then let's do it this way, dear fellows. There's been a change here instead of "a" or "a", so now I am. If we come from the fact that the committee did not support the amendment of Viktor Dmitrovitch Sweden, that means that there is still the position that was adopted at the first reading, right? So I'm going to put this position to the vote right now. And then, if the Supreme Council supports it, it will go to the right. "Corruption, deliberate action, which contains signs of corruption committed by a person mentioned in part one of Article 4 of this Act, under which the law establishes criminal administrative, civil and disciplinary responsibility. Please vote. [[14:00:13]] For 301 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have an offer to make right now: one minute! – to conclude the first article now, to vote in favour of the first article – and to announce a recess. Is there no objection? Well, to finish. Well, she's small. Well, let's continue for 15 minutes then. Well, we have to finish the first article, dear fellows! We continue for 15 minutes. Please, Shemchuk Viktor Viktorovich. 10 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u275	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u276	Don't you insist? 11th. Oh, no? Gregory Omelchenko? No, it's not. Gregory Omelchenko, 13th. No, it's not. Yuri's digger, 14th. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u277	The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Fellows, it means that it's a new paragraph of this content, and it's a new paragraph of this content, and it's a "non-material asset," which is the right of ownership of intellectual activity. We are already living in the twenty - first century, and here the reference code is being made to the Tax Code, which I think is wrong. So we have a clear idea of what "non-material assets" means. It's there in the "unreasonable benefit," but it's just a name, there's absolutely no explanation and decryption of what it is. The reference to another legal act, to my mind, is again making it more difficult to work with this document, and in fact, as they say, you can find several more legal instruments where these concepts differ completely. So I ask you to put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u278	Ivan Vasilovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u279	Well, you know, legislation. It's not one law in our country, and all legislation has to be somehow harmonious, it has to be harmonious. And if there's a definition in the law somewhere, well, let's say, as you call it, the Tax Code has what non-material assets are, it's fair, it's normal. And you're also proposing the same thing, but you're, in fact, adding further, expanding. Well, the committee did admit the proposed thing that is in the Tax Code to keep it that way so that there is no conflict in defining these concepts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u280	Dear colleagues, the 14th Jury Prokopchuk Amendment is put to the vote. We're done, that's it. [[14:03:03:03]] For-36 The decision is not made. Now Amendment 13 Gregory Omelchenka, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u281	Yes, dear fellows. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, it's simply a legal definition, a legal purity of the concept of "corruption offences," or "corruption." The previous laws were defined as "corruption." In this room there are professionals from criminal law and criminal proceedings, Ivane Vasilovich is also an expert in criminal law and the process. If we commit a crime, it is an act of inactivity, or action. Similarly, committing corruption is a corrupt act, or an act of inaction. If you're speaking out of legal clarity, you have to spell "corruption." When we say "corruption offenses," well, that's possible. To say "criminal offence," from a legal point of view, would be wrong. If you leave "corruption action," "corruption offense," it's going to be, Ivane Vasilovich, well, bony, bony. Do you understand? If we're talking about legal clarity, we need to use the term "corruption," as in previous legislation. That's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u282	Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u283	Gregory Omelanovic, I respect you as the author of the First Anti-Corruption Act, but you say, "in the first law." It was in the past law that you didn't insist, and it was corruption. We go round and round: action, delinquency. Let's just say, what is corruption? That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u284	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u285	No, that's how it was written: corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u286	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u287	And there's a definition, and the president says, "This is corruption." Let's call it that: "Corruption is the use of a person's official powers and so on." And we don't need these screwups.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u288	Let's take a vote on this proposal. I'll bet the vote on amendment 12. I'll bet the vote on the 12th amendment. [[14:05:15]] For-13. Correction not supported. Now correct 13 Gregory Omelchenka, please microphone. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u289	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Ivan Vasilovich, raise my law in the year 95, and it says, "Corruptions for which administrative responsibility has taken place." From. You understand what? Once again, corruption is a phenomenon of crime. And people are being punished for doing something or doing nothing. And from a legal point of view, it's right to say "corruption." Leave the "corruption offenses," legally speaking. But it's bony. Legally speaking, that's not true. Well, let's say, well, illiterately, Ivan Vasilovich. And you know that very well. And that's why I'm asking the law to have "corruption actions," not "corruption offenses." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u290	Dear Gregory Omelanovic, when I spoke of the past law, I meant not your own law, but the law we passed in 2009. And there was, there was already corruption. You agreed, and everything was fine. When we consider each article separately, there we will indicate whether action is or is idle and give a precise definition of legal. Call it whatever you want, however obvious you want. But we define what we mean when we say what corruption is. That's what we say, corruption is. And we keep going, we're going to define that. There's nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u291	Vote number 13, author, Gregory Omelchenko. [[14:07:05]] For-12. Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, we must now vote in favour of the first article. But if I could have your attention, we need to make one point. Ivan Vasilovich, I'd like to hear it. When we're talking about close relatives, I'm reading, "Friends, children, parents, siblings, grandparents, grandchildren, adoptions, and other people who live together." We also need to remove it because it's about "other people living together," and everyone else doesn't belong to close relatives. Is there no objection? Take away the word "and so." Look, please. Do you agree? Please, Minister of Justice. One moment, dear fellows. Alexander Lavrinovich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u292	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The proposals of the President of Ukraine, which were accepted in the first reading, spelled out correctly. The fact is, if there are individuals who are in no way related to each other and who live together, of course, there are circumstances in which they may be motivated by corruption. But they may part, and for tomorrow they no longer owe each other anything. And whether they live together or not, their siblings remain in the family. That's why the term "as well" is present.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u293	Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u294	Alexander Volodymyrovich, this is not only about those who live together, but it's becoming incomprehensible to whom the words "who live together." Or just those other people or all those listed there. There's a nuance here. Because the idea was that everyone who lives together is both relatives and not relatives. And the text doesn't quite explain who these people are. In that sense, I think Vladimir Mikhailovich has given us our attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u295	Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u296	I have a question for the Minister of Justice in this regard. Let's see, we're only legally regulated by the relationship between spouses. If you want to acquire something, you are obliged by your spouse to notarize your consent to this act, neither between brothers nor between parents. How can we really control the action of a person, a relative who lives or doesn't live together, do something that you have nothing to do with, and you will be brought to justice under the law. We do not have a mechanism for implementing this paragraph of the law in the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u297	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich! Dear National Deputies! The point is that if an action is taken in the interests of a loved one or a loved one listed in this article, it cannot be said that an action has been taken that he does not know. When it comes to marriage, you rightly said that it is not for the acquisition, but only for the alienation, where it is necessary, that it is not for the acquisition to be agreed upon. In this case, it is said that if action or inaction is taken by an official from whom the benefit of a family member is derived, such action is considered to be corrupt and must be held accountable. In this case, we can't say that we don't have legislation that doesn't allow it to actually do this, this law and those amendments to the codes, to the Criminal Code, to the Administrative Code, which are provided for in this same law, they're fully addressing the issue of normalizing the attraction to responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u298	Victor Sweden, please, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u299	Dear colleagues! I'd still like to ask that we go back to my work. It seems to me that what I'm doing here is really about what everyone's talking about right now. My application also determines that not only is it close to those who are listed there, but those who are associated with it, with this person in the joint household, do you understand? This is exactly the basis on which we can talk about the attitude to corruption, and I'd like to take another look at this. If there's no common agreement on this definition, then let's put this question aside, let's work with it again, it's a very principled question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u300	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u301	We've been looking at it, you know, the more we sit down, the more we can go to any word of corruption, and the crime, and whoever lives, we can find 15-20 synonyms, but we have practice. It's not the first law to fight corruption or at all about attraction, or about civil liability, it's already made, and it's usually possible to make a change like that in Sweden, it doesn't matter. But in my opinion, in the view of the committee, we are first considering the usual position of the author of the bill. If the amendment does not make a significant change to the content, however, the author must be respected. And in our view, as the view of the committee, the author has a clearer definition of this situation, so the correction of Sweden was rejected, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u302	Dear colleagues, let's do this because there was an amendment to the amendment, namely, that in the definition of loved ones, marriages, children, parents, siblings, grandparents, grandchildren, adopters, adopters, and other persons who live together, are linked to a shared life and have mutual rights and responsibilities with the subject mentioned in the part of the first article 4 of this law, the words "and also" are deleted, and you are already making decisions. I'm voting on this amendment to the amendment. Please vote. [[14:14:12]] For 244 Correction accepted. I bet the vote on article 1. Please take off the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u303	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you one, fairly principled question, because we're here to define terms, then we have a text that I have a position that I have for each of the lawyers, whoever I ask, no one has given me an answer. It's about "persons of legal persons of public law." I propose that in this article, where we are talking about the definition of terms must be defined by "owners of legal persons of public law"? Because if we don't define what this is, we don't know who we're going to have claims to. It's still a legal term.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u304	Adam Ivanovich, so what does this refer to in the first article?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u305	That's what we need to do when we do -- I don't think we're going to accept it in general and for the third reading -- and in preparing for the third reading, we have to define in the first article, because here we're going to give a list of the concepts, and we're going to define what this is, "the officers of the legal persons of public law." And we're close relatives and we're also defining that, and we have to define that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u306	Then, please, your attention, Your Honor, may I have your attention, please? Then if this proposal now finds support in the session room, we should send this first article to the third reading. Right? The same is true, for we cannot accept it as a whole. Please report from the committee, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u307	We may have considered all the amendments discussed in the first article, and in fact Adam Ivanovich is now proposing to add something else. But what we're talking about is, there's going to be a definition in the law, not in that, but in other laws, there's a clear definition of "officers of private law" that we can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u308	There is no such thing as any law. Let's write it down here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u309	Please, Sweden. And then Mishchenko. It's only short for us because we can't make decisions anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u310	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I support what Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk said. It's wrong in any law, it's in the Civil Code. But in criminal law, we don't have that definition. That's the first one. The other one. I asked when this bill began to be considered from the very beginning, so that we could definitely define in the first article what a "service person" is, what a "service worker" is, what a "employee" is, what a "employee" is. It's very important. In the Constitution, we have the notion of "possessors." [[Article 19 Part Two]] In criminal law, we're talking about "staff crimes." And now we're introducing the notion of "service and office violations," and we're not defining it in the law itself. So I would ask, and in support of the proposal that Adam Ivanovich said, to complete another part of this first law is necessary by definition.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u311	Microphone, please finish. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u312	"employee" and the definition of "officer," because it's not the same thing. The law mentions two of these concepts. And what's the difference between them, I'm sure there's no answer in the room. How, though, will these matters be resolved in court, Your Honor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u313	Thank you. Please, Mishchenka, just for a moment, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u314	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, obviously, if a new concept is introduced that is in no way divulged by other laws, this law should be revealed in this law. What does that mean? It means that under the "service person of a legal person of public law," I can be a lawyer to put a doctor, a teacher -- and that's what we're talking about, we're going to talk about 4 articles of this law, they're going to be subjects of corruption. So the question is not, or we can define it in article 1, or maybe in the fourth, where we get to the subjects. And there we can define the concept in article 4 that this is a new subject in our country. And one more thing. We have a bill, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and we have a bill that we're going to consider next -- these are political people. If we're the same political people here. We can't put ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u315	Well, I get the offer. And then we'll ask the Justice Minister to put out the right view.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u316	Dear Head, this seems to be a very important article. Because it seems that doctors and teachers will be planted under this law. And what is now being raised is very important in the process of criminal prosecution. So the next suggestion is to agree to what you have proposed as Head of the Supreme Council. Now vote for the first article to actually go to a new edition of the third reading. It's as raw as it is, and the law is raw. And this is a powerful witness to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u317	Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u318	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the political temperature and the desire to say something, including what is not in the first article, and I would ask that in this case, when we discuss article No.1, all the amendments that we have considered vote for it in general. What will apply to officials will be revealed in the following articles, there will be a discussion, which distinguishes "the legal person of private law" from "the legal person of public law". Since this is not only in the Civil Code, as mentioned earlier, it is present even in the books taught by lawyers when they receive higher education. So I don't think there's any problem with that. So I would ask that we do not artificially seek excuses to avoid adopting any laws. And I would also like to say that the amendment that was supported with regard to the deletion of the words "and also" shows that, given such an amendment, close relatives who live alone can no longer be brought to criminal responsibility or not only criminal responsibility, to various types of responsibility, for corruption in the interests of their loved ones. This has radically changed the nature of the approach to those who may be viewed as subject to corruption. I'd like you to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-03-m0.u319	Dear colleagues. We can't right now, we're running out of time, it's a discussion. Dear colleagues, such an offer that we will now discuss two issues during the break. The first is the vote on article 1 taking into account the amendments that were supported in general in article 1. The second is to transfer to the third reading with the commission of the committee to give appropriate definitions. Well, there were no more offers. We can't make any decisions right now, because it's been 14 hours for 25 minutes. So at 4:00, we're going to continue our work right from making a decision. At 4: 00 p.m., an evening meeting begins. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00.
