ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:53]] They registered in the 376 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is represented by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, as well as by the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the exception of the Minister from the environment of natural resources, as well as the Minister of Education, Science, Youth and Sports, who are on a mission. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Kravchuk Vasil Petrovich. Please welcome our colleague and wish him success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on November 17, 2011. Sixteen questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration of 7 laws and 7 regulations, one bill was sent to the Committee to prepare for the re-reading, and 10 bills and one draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 2 laws have been adopted in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Friday, from 10 to 11 a.m., are held "the hour of questions to the Government". Honourable national MPs, factions and groups made a proposal: during "hours of questions to the government" to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on specific issues of housing and health care. The parliamentary factions of the Party of the Regions, the Communist Party of Ukraine and the parliamentary group Reforms for the Future, based on part six of article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have notified in advance the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the questions that will be asked during the "hour of questions to the Government". Honourable National Deputies, answering questions from MPs and groups today will be Minister of Regional Development of Construction and Housing of Ukraine Anatoly Mihajlovich Bliznyuk and Minister of Health of Ukraine Alexander Volodymyrovich Anishchenko. Dear colleagues, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed on this arrangement for an hour of questions to the government. For the Minister of Regional Policy's answers. regional development, construction and housing, up to 15 minutes. Of them, 10 minutes -- written questions, five minutes directly -- from the MPs. Similarly, for the Minister of Health, 10 minutes -- answer to written questions, 5 minutes -- written questions, 5 minutes -- answers directly from Ukrainian national deputies. And 30 minutes for the questions and answer them accordingly to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine who are present at the Year of Questions to the Government. Is there no objection? None. Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing Anatoly Mikhailovich Bliznyuk is invited to the rostrum. Please, Anatoly Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! Your written questions came to me. According to the Rules, I answer them. First question. How do you think the heating season began this year? With weather and climate conditions, the heating period began under the law of October 15th, and in Crimea a little later. During the heating period, there are now 26,000 blacksmiths. The heat is given to 140,000 multi-story buildings, 38,000 budget organizations. In connection with external heat transmission, there are emergency situations that result in a temporary cessation of heating in residential and social areas. We have 33,000 kilometers of heat grids, 63 percent of them are mortified. Local heat failures, damage to internal heating systems are eliminated over the years. In the Minregion, day - to - day controls are being carried out, dispatches are operating, and all problems are being solved. Second question. Are you opposed to turning the population into an individual tan? How is centralized heating economically advantageous for an individual? Since heat weariness is extremely high, would it not be cheaper to make a massive transition to individual heating? My wife and I personally support each other when co-owners of ODS or cooperatives are working to establish their individual home heating system. And if it's an individual tan to every apartment, I'm definitely against it and I'll tell you why. Priority error. First of all, people join the Confora, where the gas costs 700 dollars, and for Warmcommunergo it costs 1,309 dollars. Ventilation systems don't work or are not suited for this. So I'm just going to give an example, and you're going to draw conclusions. Since the beginning of the year and during the heating period in Ukraine, there have been 22 accidents involving 40 people of all ages and 16 of whom have died because of gas. So this is not where we need to go. Question three. The population is fully and timelyly accounted for by gas, the Heatcommunerge is not fully accounted for by reference to the difference in tariffs. Please clarify the situation. One of the systemic causes of the crisis of residential-communal enterprises is the dependence of the industry on pricing policies in the fuel-energy complex. We have an energy component in the heat supply -- 65 percent and 30 percent in the water supply. But given the price of 1,309 dollars for the Heatcommunerge, we have partial compensation. [[For the population, you remember, I said it was 800 bucks.]] Today, only 61 percent of the heat supplies are reimbursed at the rate and 73 percent in the water supply. So the difference in tariffs is that the state takes over and the population pays 95 percent. That's why we're having trouble calculating exactly, given that there's this difference in tariffs that the state is taking on. The President, the fourth question, pointed out that the Ministry of Regional Development of Construction and Housing needs to allocate at least 5 billion dollars for development. Where do you plan to set aside such funds? I know not everyone wants to hear it, but I'll say it. We've written a budget request for 27 billion dollars. And I didn't look in the ceiling when we wrote it, and we only took the entire legislative base where we have to do something. And experts have estimated that in order to do this, to do so, to enforce the law, such funds are needed. All of it. I understand they won't be in the state. But what the President said is the minimum that it should be. And there's a decision and commission and a prime minister, including setting up the means of accounting for both technological and commercial. And the development of energy conservation. In answer to the five questions, I will show you where the funds will be sent, including. We also have a development and support programme for OSBB. And construction, including youthful and accessible. Fifth question. You have repeatedly claimed that three times as much resources are spent on each resident as in Europe. How does the branch plan to save expensive Russian gas this year? This system that's built, the heat supply in the state, it's built in Soviet times and, let's say, these were the times when the population didn't know how much this gas cost. And now everyone knows. That's why we know and do it. So I'm giving you three examples. One, we have boilers that produce heat, we have networks that transmit heat, and we have houses that we heat. And what do we have? We have a loss of up to 15 percent on the boilers, so we have to invest money in the maintenance of technical equipment, including importing, introducing alternative fuel to boilers. And we're doing this, out of the 26,000 weeds that I've been talking about, seven percent are already working on alternative fuels. The greenhouse gas branch consumes almost 13 billion cubic metres of gas per year. And this 15 percent loss that I was talking about is just a fraction of that. And in networks, I told you, 33,000 kilometers and 63 percent are mortified, there's a loss of up to 30 percent. And if we're going to be at the rate we're doing right now, it's going to take 200 years to replace all these pipes. And the third indicator is the buildings. Buildings are now losing more than 40 percent of the heat, and because of what we don't have an economic boiler there, we never heat the house up when 40 percent of the heat is lost. In addition, internal networks were built 20, 30, 50 years ago. And there's no heat in those registers. That's why we have the program. We've notified her to the government. We've notified her to the government. We have the task of correcting the entire legislative base and getting out of it in 2012 and in the medium term by 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a question, five minutes, to Minister Anatoly Mikhailovich. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u4	Thank you. Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Dear Anatoly Mikhailovich! There are practices around the world, especially in Western Europe, when counters are installed that count calories, not the amount of fluid that passes through pipes. In this case, it's about heating up. Why are we not implementing such technologies in Ukraine? What are the obstacles? And the second. Now, today you've said a lot, well, really, the problems of the municipal economy can't be solved at the same time. And even an appointment won't lead you to solve it in one day. This is certainly a small task. But how can you deprive Ukrainians of the shameful practice of paying for hot water that is not available?Oh, my God! Well, it just doesn't. You open the tap, and there's cold water! I would like to thank you very much for such a clear and clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u5	In the program that I'm talking about, there's an offer like this. To stimulate OSBB, we've worked out a pattern like this. What we're proposing to the residents of OSB is these calorie calculus counters. What you're talking about. And they have to pay for the heat they get. And we say, we give you a counter without interest, you pay 300 dollars today for the heat supply. Tomorrow you get the counter. You're going to pay 250, let's say 200, as you're going to regulate it yourself. And you return the rest and within a year and a year and a half, the total sum of this device. That's the system we've built and we're offering. It's about hot water. Let us put it this way, it will never be resolved until we have a system that allows us to move to individual heat points in each two - way approach, which gives heat and gives hot water always and regulates the temperature. We have these proposals and projects in the state are being implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u6	People's MP Kolocei, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u7	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Mihajlovich, you're in favour of creating an OSD. Please tell me, what steps do you plan to take in this direction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u8	You asked me questions in Russian, so I'll answer that. I would like the members of the Supreme Council to finally decide and make a decision on the completion of privatization. And by the time it's over, 92 percent of the people in the country have privatized and 8 percent have privatized. And we have to take all the insinuations here and make that decision. That's one thing. And then make a decision to stimulate OSBB. We've got this kind of offer to warm houses, given what I told you about, about the counters I told you about. In general, an effective owner is the main one that will provide the prospect of maintaining housing. There won't be a fourth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u9	Yes, Jaroslav Jojik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u10	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage, the government has banned the transition from centralized to individual heating. At the same time, in previous periods, a large number of citizens, the inhabitants of the district centers, in the order established by law, were granted permission to set up this individual heating system and installed it, very often at the latest, or at the expense of credit costs. There are buildings where 90 percent of the inhabitants of a large apartment house have installed such individual heating. And today these people are being forced to pay for centralized heating. Don't you think it's a very big social injustice to this particular category of people? And you don't think the government has to find a way out of this situation so that those people don't pay twice.?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u11	The government just found a way out, offering what you say you don't need, or it's forbidden to install individual systems in a separate apartment. Ventilation's not working. If you haven't heard, I'm sorry, I'll tell you, during this period of 22 accidents, 40 people have suffered from various ages, 16 of them have died in those apartments where individual heating is installed, including, first. And second of all, remember, they're picking up from the confort, and at the confort, they're costing 800 bucks. If it costs 1309, like for TKE, they'll immediately switch to centralized heating, they'll come back. But we have examples when the whole area of Zacarpatska, it's already gone into an individual area, just taking that into account. There's both the pluses and the minuses. Well, for the authorities, 3,000 complaints are at the beginning of the heating season, and in the Zakartat region is 0.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u12	Thank you. All right, Anatoly Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. I invite the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Alexander Vladimirovich Anishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u13	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Mikolo Janovich! Deputies! The Ministry of Health received 11 questions from two factions. First. When do you expect the first results of reforms? Factors and obstacles. First of all, I must thank you, honourable people's deputies, you have supported the implementation of health reforms in Ukraine and adopted two bills in July this year that allowed us to start these reforms. The first step of the reforms is to reorganize existing health care facilities, clinics, clinics, FAPs, etc. to primary health care centres and to establish a health care system for these. Doctors, general practice therapists, pediatricians in principle, really, free choice of doctors. Second, the direct link between the doctor’s salary and the quality of the patient’s health. The goal of setting up centres is not to close institutions that exist, but to reorganize work on their basis, to open branches, to new outpatients where it is needed locally, and to bring health care closer to the population. What does that do? The pilots just started their work, but where this principle was introduced earlier, it's the Zitomirsk region, the Poltava region, it's reducing the level of hospitalization, the number of rapid medical calls, i.e. it gives an economic effect, but most importantly, the social effect, it increases the population's satisfaction with the level of health care according to the survey. By April 1, 2012, emergency medical and disaster medical centres were to be established in pilot regions and a network of temporary emergency medical teams is being deployed. This provides a concentration of all brigades under the sole operational management, a concentration of human resources and financial resources, a reduction of the brigade's arrival radius, control by the introduction of electronic single brigade management systems, a significant reduction in the excess of inefficient costs associated with administrative division. And most importantly, they're going to be working on the principle of a single medical space, and as a result, they're going to reach the patients within 10 to 20 minutes. And Harkov's experience is already giving us 7 minutes of arrival, and every minute is life-saving. Well, I have to tell you that the closest results are expected in a year. And the experience of these countries that have gone this way shows that this work is effective and overwhelming, that the consolidation of the efforts of all branches and levels of authority in the centers and cities and that positive results will be necessary. I'm asking you, in the 2012 budget, there are two subsidies for the regions: 327 million for pilot regions to equip the centres and buy transportation, I'm asking you very much to support, and 323 million for all regions to increase the cost of medical supplies for ambulances. Now it costs one challenge, one drug, two and a half bracelets. We hope that if this bill is adopted into the budget, the following year, from the second half, it will cost the doctor 50 dollars each. This will enable my colleagues to provide full medical care. "What is the reason for the definition of four pilot regions and how is the regional specificity included in the pilot projects?" Two areas were defined by Kabmin’s decree, such as the industrial Dnipropetrovsk district and the agricultural vineyard. Differences in population density, geographical differences in areas were also taken into account. The willingness of the regions to make changes, the support of local authorities, and the availability of certain gains was also taken into account. Later, Doneck and Kyiv were included in the pilot regions at their own request. The composition of the pilot regions allows the approach to reforming the health system for both rural and large cities. Why is medical reform not as important as compulsory health insurance? The introduction of compulsory social health insurance is a component of reform as well as the third phase of reform. In line with the economic reform programme, the implementation of health care is provided for in 2014-2015. International experience suggests that the introduction of a national health insurance system should be preceded by structural restructuring of the health care system, and the establishment of new financial mechanisms. This is the main content of the first stages of the reforms that are being undertaken today. The Ministry is currently working on the relevant bills. We hope that next year you'll accept it, and we'll start working on the insurance system from 2015. How do you plan to reform the EUSR system? It's supposed to be the territorial body of the State Sanitary Epidemiology Service. The number of civil servants is determined by the government of 2,500. In addition, in structural restructuring, low-power sansations through their pooling and concentration of resources have been proposed by the government to establish a threshold of 30,000 employees of the State Service. We held a meeting and we set up our own team to do the optimization, and now it's working and how. What are we going to do? The restructuring of the Central ECS MOZ of Ukraine to the Center for Disease Prevention and Control is envisaged. 27 regional EU member states according to the Ukrainian administration, which will establish 27 territorial government authorities. And 321 urban and interdistrict EU. So from 775 epidemiological stations, we're bringing them to 30 government levels of 30 departments of 359 units. What will that do? The concentration of resources, which are already limited, reduces the functions that will be passed on to other central authorities in the reform, regulates the provision of administrative services and simplifys them, reduces unnecessary checks with a parallel increase in the personal responsibility of owners and managers of enterprises and organizations for the maintenance of sanepids and Sangienic requirements. How much funding is provided for the public programme, including oncology, haemophilia, cardiovascular diseases, etc.? The State Budget 2011 Act of Ukraine provides the Ministry of Security with 1 billion 774 million to implement state programmes and measures. This in terms of planned expenditure, the funding takes place by a hundred percent. But according to the 100 percent need of the area's facilities, it's 2.5-3 times more on the scale of the programs alone. In particular, oncology is 25 percent of the need. Plan – 230, need – 1 billion 100. Children’s oncology is 50 percent of the need. Plan 60, need 120. Hemophiliacs are provided with 24 percent of the need. 100 percent of the demand according to the statement is 300 million. But we hope that the purchase of drugs at the expense of state funds through the Ministry of Emergency Situations will allow us to provide almost 100% of the patients with the necessary treatments. The purchase of cardiologists and medical devices to treat cardiovascular and vascular diseases is 23 percent. This year, 114 million dollars have been allocated. How will the adoption of a single "Health Nation" program be reflected in the effectiveness of centralised actions to implement targeted programs? No matter how much we plan for treatment in today's unhealthy living conditions, with the rapid introduction of super-price, novel drugs and methods of research in treatment without a set of preventive measures that affect the elimination of causes and premeditations of the formation of diseases, there is never enough. That's why today's global global health policy "Health 2020" has been launched, on the basis of which the Cabinet of Ministers has already developed and approved the concept of a state-wide programme "Health 2020: Ukrainian Measurement". The primary focus on prevention of infectious diseases, development of the public health system, and ensuring equal access to health of all types of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question, five minutes. Names, please show the national MPs. The People's Deputy, the Faction "BUT" is the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u15	Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u16	National deputy Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister! Obviously, you will agree that national health care has never been used for political purposes. Yulia Tymoshenko’s health is controlled by the Ministry’s commission, it is clear that this commission is in turn controlled by the Attorney General’s Office and is not independent, and yet, unlike prosecutors, the medics made an oath of medicine, known as the Hippoktar oath. If there are now objective reasons for carrying out an instrumental examination of a patient, such as an MRI that you know is not in the WHO Medical Center, why don't you agree to conduct such an examination outside the WHO? Just don’t talk about the patient’s refusal, in this case her lawyers and the patient themselves say that a proper diagnosis is necessary. Are you waiting for international medical organizations like the Red Cross, Doctors Without Borders, the WHO European Bureau?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u18	Thank you for asking. It's true the Ministry of Health doesn't carry out political orders, first. Secondly, Mrs. Timoshenko is in the penitentiary system. And when, and who are allowed to be examined, the provision of medical care is determined by the penitentiary system. Thirdly, more than 20 times our experts have been and examined, have been in the penitentiary system and only five times has she agreed to the examination. We examined, established a diagnosis that could have been established without using tool methods. She's being treated, she's getting this treatment. And in order to test it X-rays and carry out an examination with a magnetic-nuclear tomography, it takes a commission, a decision by the Kyiv Court of Appeal. And we're willing to help if we get a ruling from the Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u19	Soroczynska Kirilenko, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u20	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, my question next. Is it enough to provide vaccines to prevent the most dangerous infections, such as diphtheria, tuberculosis, polio?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. We held trades this year and saved 19 million dollars. This has given us the opportunity, given the economy, the redistribution of funds, and the involvement of the additional 30 million, to make trades and buy about the prevention of diphtheria by 100 percent, tuberculosis by 100 percent. Practically everything about the children of the first river of life has been purchased on an appropriate scale. You should know that for the last three years, two years, the need for a 64 percent vaccine complex has been ensured. This year, I repeat, at the expense of the economy, we bought almost all the vaccines from the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, and now they're coming to our region. The main problem now is today and tomorrow, quality control for BCG must end. And it's already in Ukrainian territory in Ukravaccin, and we're going to start shipping it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u22	Fomin, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u23	Alexander Fomin. I give the floor to my colleague Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u24	Sergei Vlasenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u25	Thank you. Mr. Minister, first of all, we don't need to mislead the Ukrainian people's deputies. Tymoshenko has received no medical treatment for two weeks. I saw her yesterday in person -- no medical care for two weeks. That's the first one. Secondly, in order to ensure a normal diagnosis of Timoshenko, it takes your commission, your commission, not your penitentiary service, to finally make a normal diagnosis. They can't do that. Then they should write, if they are honest doctors, if they still remember Hippocratic oaths, they should point out that instrumental diagnostics are needed. It's not possible to do that under the investigative isolation. That's why it's necessary, first of all, for your committee to conclude on what the MRT should do. This is clear to all and complete. Only after a normal diagnosis has been performed can treatment be determined. And the question is very simple. Or you'd let me question you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u26	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u27	Would you allow the investigators to question your wife if she hadn’t been out of bed for two weeks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. My colleagues perform Hippocratic oaths, and they have not committed any breach. By your permission, the last two times they examined Mrs. Timoshenko, it was November 7 and 9, it was a commission job, it was attended by four experts. They're from the Academy of Medical Sciences, they're the head of the department and the professors. That's the first one. It's different. They examined Mrs. Timoshenko. They have assigned and conducted some methods of testing that are possible under WHO. Second, they recommended conducting MRIs and X-rays. It is recommended that the experts of this committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] With your permission, I won't argue. I say what I know and what my colleagues know. [[B in m in s a l in]] By your permission, be kind, go to court, and receive this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u29	Thank you. Time's up, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for a question with the Cabinet of Ministers. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs, please take them to the board. Danilenko, the Communist faction, please, your question, and to whom?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u30	Vladimir Danilenko, Ukrainian Company faction, Sumščina. I didn't have time to ask Anatoly Mikolayovich. After all, in the city of Suma, yes and probably everywhere, there was a very difficult situation with the elevator industry. The local authorities alone are unable to deal with this problem. The city of Sumah works. almost 200 elevators don't work, and people sit on the 13th floor for months, 16th floor, unable to stay in the fresh air. What are the measures planned by the Ministry to deal with this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u31	Anatoly Mikhailovich, please ask you a question. But you can sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u32	I'm sorry, I didn't hear much at first. That's why. You're talking about people who live on the top floor who don't have the ability to, say, breathe air or walk. That's what we need to do, that's all. We understand that. And as such, we help people in every particular way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u33	Anatoly Mikhailovich, specifically, is a tall building in Suma, where the elevator does not work. Then I would ask that you specifically record this address and simply instruct me to find out and solve this problem. Please, the microphone. Danilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u34	Anatoly Mikolaiovich, you didn't hear me say that there are no more than 200 elevators in the tall buildings in Suma. Local authorities cannot deal with this problem on their own. What are the Ministry's plans to help in this direction and yet to deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u35	We have information on every city, and I have to say that in Ukraine, 6,000 elevators do not work. That's why we did this program, we're putting it on the government, we're proposing in a budget question the cost of solving this problem. And every region also joins in solving these problems, and together, in two years, we'll solve all these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u36	Uljana Mistpane and Yuri Gnatkević are handing over the right to formulate a question to Sergey Vlasenko, i.e. two minutes, please. Sergei Volodymyrovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u37	Thank you. I want to continue to ask the Minister of Health. Mr. Secretary, once again, I very much ask you not to distribute false information in this room. According to the tax police investigators of today, the State Tax Service receives daily permission from doctors to conduct investigations with Timoshenko. The following actions are carried out in a cell. She can't walk for 14 days! Every day the investigator receives a written permission from the medical authorities to carry out the investigation. These follow-up actions last four or five hours. Man lies and does not get up! No recommendation for an MRI, or other instrumental study, was given by your committee of the Ministry of Health to an investigative isolate. The following isolate refers to the conclusion of your commission, not to the conclusions of its doctors, because they do not have experts. Tymoshenko has received no medical treatment for 14 days. Today my request will be announced to you and to the chief of penitentiary with the question: What is going on? And I demand that you give a reasonable answer. That's the first one. Second, you never answered the question: would you give permission to interrogate your wife if she was lying sick for 14 days? That's the kind of permission your subjects give. Then comes your first deputy, who says that Timoshenko is not sick. We don't have Lucenko anymore. Lucenko was already in good health, and he was rushed to the hospital. And these are the conclusions of your fellow workers who remember the Hippocratic oath. In the 1930 ’ s, doctors also remembered Hippocratic oaths. Maybe it's some other oath? Maybe we've seen different texts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u38	Thank you for asking, distinguished national MP. I answer, that's the first. Mrs. Timoshenko's commission was reviewed on November 7 and 9. That's the first one. Secondly, on November 9th, we used some other tools to do tool research. Thirdly, after this consulate was held, all health professionals and health officials of the penitentiary system made a clear conclusion. Conclusion. And in this conclusion, the recommendation is to conduct X-rays and MRIs is, it really is. Secondly, the commission has decided that the bed regime is currently being recommended -- it is being implemented. The commission decided that there was no medical evidence to communicate with the authorities of the investigation within Kyiv’s compound where Mrs. Timoshenko was kept. Third, fourthly, every day, according to your information, it's the health service of the penitentiary system that gives you permission, as you say, to interrogate Mrs. Timoshenko. The representatives of the Ministry of Health, the civil health system, can be, take part in Mrs. Timoshenko’s examination only after the court’s decision and nothing else. You must agree. And we do. If we are now awaiting a decision by the Kyiv Court of Appeal in order to carry out an examination of Mrs. Timoshenko. Otherwise we can't do it. We are ready, we have the power, the means and the good experts, the professionals who swore the Hippocratic oath and did not break it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u39	Vasile Derevljany, Faction "BUT" is "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Andrew Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u41	Andrew Pavlovsky, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u42	Andrey Pavlovski, "Fatherland" block. We see that in the situation with Timoshenko, the authorities are moving not from arrest to imprisonment, to imprisonment of the leaders of the opposition, but to their physical destruction, without providing adequate medical care within two weeks, and by international standards, torture. You will be responsible for your fascist methods. And the question to Mr. Azarov. There was a Chernobyl Forum in Lubna yesterday, and you know that they had been starving in the Donetska, Harkov, Lviv pension funds. People are outraged at the fact that, on your own terms, pension funds have substantially reduced their pensions and social benefits. They're nervous, they asked to tell you. Because there's a few hundred bracelets that they have the extras that they spend completely on medicine because they saved our country from the terrible disaster of Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u43	Mikolo Janovich, please ask you a question about Andrija Pavlovski for the Chernobyl family.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u44	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers has set up a working group that is considering resolving the conflicts that are currently taking place. The State budget will also provide resources to address this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u45	People's Deputy Kilincarov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u46	- Hello. - Hello. -
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u47	Vladimir Leschenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u48	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro I have a question for Minister Anatoly Mikolaiovich. Anatoly Mikolaiovich, many residential-communal enterprises, such as Heatcommunergo, TEC and oblenergo, liars, water-supply companies, individual JEKs are in private hands. Of course, they want to earn as much as they can from their activities. As a result, tariffs and services vary widely. In many cases they are not justified. Yet the authorities are on their side. They're writing everything down on subsidies. So why wouldn't the Cabinet of Ministers, at the initiative of the Ministry, switch to automatic subsidies? And the second question. The city of Zugres in the Donetsk region, and it has several multistory floors still unburned. It's freezing. What is the ministry planning on doing in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u49	Well, it's about Zugres first. It's a city in the Donetsk region. And that's where everything burns. But there's an old TEC that doesn't give the power that it should be. But there, in the Donetsk region, minicots are built that provide 100 percent of the supply and transfer right there for individual heating. These questions are settled there. And from what we say, we have problems with the Jacks, we always say, I'll report it to you. 42 percent of the country’s dwellings are served only by the old, so - called Jacks. And lastly, these are the private enterprises you're talking about. And this is done according to a contract between the owners or the local authorities and the company that serves this house. So there can't be a tariff surplus because either the city councils set these tariffs, or they're set by the regulatory state. And for OSBB, if they're created, people make their own decisions about how much they spend on keeping their house, I emphasize, on their own. But they also hire those who are better and cheaper to do the service. It's a market relationship, it's going to develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u50	Verni Dubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u51	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister of Health. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, tens of thousands of insulin-dependent citizens, our fellow countrymen, are awaiting a solution to the Indar factory. I would like to hear your firm stand as a minister of health personally and what that position is. Are there prospects for transparency in the work of this factory and the production of really quality products? And is it possible to have systematic ministerial control over the quality of this product, the drugs that are vital to citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u52	At present, there is a decision by the Kyiv court that the stock control package, almost 11 million, is going to the Ukremedprom DAC, it has passed. But there is an appeal, and it will be considered at the end of this month. As for the quality of insulins produced in this company. First of all, it's good quality. And the State Department of Medicine is constantly controlling it. In recent times, there have been no claims to this business. This is the first time. Second, at present, the information of the regions. The required amount of insulin is provided per cent by the company. At present, there is a 24-million leftover in the warehouses of this company. When the trial is concluded, the final decision will be taken. But for the time being, this enterprise belongs to the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u53	Alexander Steshenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u54	Vladimir Mikhailovich, please give my word to my colleague Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u55	Who, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u56	It's a Serbian.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u57	Yuri Serbin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u58	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, for the word. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Mikolo Janovich, we haven't been doing the reform program for the third year, so we're losing again, we're losing power, we're burning energy and burning, dollars or bracelets, we're burning in the air. Over the next year, only 400 million are budgeted, with a programme of 200 million for counters and 200 million for drinking water. So is there going to be an extra because we have 7 billion? And the second question. We haven't done 10 million housing for a third year. We're going to do this right now: 4.5 thousand houses are not built, and once again, we're going to have to do it in the budget. You promised me 10 billion in April. So what's going to happen in the budget for the reform of the LHC and the construction of affordable housing? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u59	Yes, will Anatoly Mikhailovich answer or who?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u60	The Government is now working on a second reading of the budget and is considering increasing funding for the need to modernize housing and utilities. What will be the final figures, we will report to you when the budget is submitted on second reading. With regard to housing programmes. You know very well how a professional builder was in a deep crisis of housing construction a year ago, 80 percent of the buildings were frozen. As a result of certain measures, the construction growth for 10 months was 16 per cent, with more than 5 million square metres of housing being built. That's why everything you can do is done. Budget programmes aimed at affordable housing are fully funded for those related to the construction complex. That's all the government can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u61	Andrew Schlell, the right to supply the question is transmitted by John Kirilenko, please by the faction "BUT – "Fatherhood".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u62	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have a question for two government officials, two ministers: Mr. Lavrinović, Minister of Justice, and Anishchenka, Minister of Health. I want to understand, for me, what were the preferences of the serial killers who were held in a detention facility, especially the leaders of these militias, who were involved in the killing of Gongadze, who all received \qualified medical assistance in civilian medical facilities outside the Lukyansky detention facility? Because I can say from experience that it is impossible to get any normal help in the walls of this facility. And to Minister Lavrinovich. I don't know which country there is in the world, how could it happen in Ukraine that the investigators entered a cell where the defendant or the defendant is held? This was not even for Barry and Jesuit, even then some basic points of compliance were respected. You don't do that. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u63	Please, Minister of Justice, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u64	The civil health system is involved to help those detained in the WHO, only by decision of the court, there is no other way. We are invited to a penitentiary system with this decision. I can't give you another answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u65	This is the situation where a medic could also answer for a lawyer, since the matter you have raised is within the jurisdiction of the court. And according to his decision, according to the problems brought before the court, he makes the decision, it comes true. All of this is enshrined in the current legislation of Ukraine. If you have suggestions for his change, let's look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u66	Oleg Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u67	I have a question for Prime Minister Azarov. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm informing you that since Tuesday in Donetsk, 48 black people are starving because of your policies, because you've taken their pensions, because you've given the commission not to execute the court's decision to pay them their dues. Eight people are already in the hospital. I want to ask you as Prime Minister, do you feel responsible for people today risking their lives, their health, protesting against your antisocial policy. Millions of people around the country are rebelling against government action, against what you do. You have issued 63 protocol orders along with Tihypka and have been instructed not to execute court decisions. You took their pensions from the pensioners, you deprived them of adequate social protection. I'm asking you when you're going to stop antisocial government policy. When will you stop robbing people?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u68	Please, Mikolo Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u69	Well, in essence, I don't think it's necessary to respond to such provocative statements. The Government is well informed about everything that is going on in the country and a normal dialogue is being held with people. If you did not interfere with your provocative statements, this dialogue would be much more constructive and fruitful.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u70	People's Deputy Dubyl, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u71	I have a question for Prime Minister Janovich. Mikolo Janovich, I know that you were in Ohmatdit a few days ago, and that's where the good stuff started, the building of the Ohmatdita Corps. As I am a member of the Ohmatdita Board of Oncological Children, I have been asked questions. There is 230 million allocated this year for the construction of a hospital. Of these 200 million are planned to be purchased. 135 million are planned for hardware. Improperly. These funds may still be sent to the hospital, not the equipment, because the hospital will still be building for a few years. That's the first question. And the second question. I wanted to ask you, how many years is this building going to be built, and what is the budget for the next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u72	The structure of the funds provides for the acquisition of equipment and construction work at the same time. Since the technology of the housing equipment involves the simultaneous installation of equipment with construction work. That is why part of the funds is allocated not only to construction, but also to the acquisition of equipment. It is sufficiently cumbersome and will be installed where possible in the construction of the hull itself. It's a big hospital. It consists of three shells. It is the summer of the following year that the Centre for the Transplant of the Bone Brain and Oncohematology is primarily operational. This will be the first part, first priority of this hospital. In general, construction is designed for about two years, i.e. we are not going to delay it. The total estimated value is now estimated at about 800 million bracelets. Everything. all three lines of construction. The construction will be rhythmic, and we expect that in 2012 we will finish the construction of this hospital.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u73	Yes, National Deputy Fomin, the Faction "BUT" is the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u74	Alexander Fomin. Please pass the word to Eugene Goodyak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u75	Who? Eugene Goody, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u76	I have questions for two ministers, the minister of justice and the minister of health, professional as a doctor. Please tell the Minister of Justice: Can a person who is recognized as a sick person really be questioned? This is the first, and the disease is the middle. Now, the specific question is professional to the Minister of Health, would you please tell me if there was a medical doctor on the board of the Ministry of Health? This is the first, second, please tell me, what you're saying is that an M.R.D.D. has been assigned, X-ray research, and you understand how treatment can be assigned if there's no such tool methods of research? Do you understand what the consequences may be, what the diagnosis may be, under these moving and other violations of the defendant, in the sick Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko? Do you realize that you are taking such a responsibility? And remember the Latin expression: "Alis inserviendo consumor" is "holy to others, I burn."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u77	Yes, please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u78	Any follow-up with a person who is sick can only be done with the permission of health professionals working in the penitentiary system.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u79	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u80	Minister of Security, please. Just don't shout, I'll hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u81	Thank you for asking, my dear colleague. First of all, there was a commission made up of famous experts. Indeed, there was no neurosurgeon, the recommendation of the commission for the inclusion of neurosurgeons is available. There is a recommendation from the Commission, X-rays and MRTs. And as a result, invite a neurosurgeon and a neurologist. And I repeat, we can examine Mrs. Timoshenko in accordance with the doctor's opinion after the court's ruling, which will allow us to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u82	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u83	I have a question for the Minister of Finance, Fedor Aleksiowiczod, about the status of the person who lives or works in the area of a settlement that is granted mountain status. Regional media, especially in Zakarpat, are spreading information that the 2012 draft budget, which prepares for second reading, provides for restrictions on this status. So how would you like to hear from your mouth the Ukrainians who live in a mountainous settlement that has this status, or are there really limitations for 2012 or will everything work in the standards that are there today?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u84	Thank you. No limits are planned, everything will work as it is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u85	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, the faction "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have two questions. One question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, another question to the Minister of Health. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, this booklet is called the Constitution of Ukraine. There's a strange norm. It is written in article 124: “Courts are approved by the courts in the name of Ukraine and are required to execute throughout Ukraine.” And that means no one, not even the President of Ukraine, can change them. As a result, I want to understand on what basis did you instruct us not to make these decisions about children of war, about the Chernobyls, about the Afghans, about other socially vulnerable groups? That's the first question. The second question is, did you know that in the courts there are now, in administrative, appeals, 603,000 cases that are not even registered because of the procedure? And to the minister of health. Here comes the targeted murder of Yuri Lucenka. The planned murder of Yuri Lucenka through.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u87	Finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u88	I'm done. So I'm talking to the Minister of Health. You know, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko is in a situation like Timoshenko, where you've been asked questions. You've been asked more than that. Doctors are given permission to date an investigator, not to date a lawyer or her own daughter, who is the guardian of the case. That's why there's a counterintelligence to keeping in places where you're deprived of your will, you know that, coming out of it, even a convicted person getting released from a place of deprivation, in cases like Lucenka's, why isn't this matter resolved? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u89	Please, Mikolo Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u90	Yuri Anatolyovich! You and I adopted the Constitution in 1996, and I know it very well. Thus, there is a provision in the Constitution that all expenses are made exclusively by the State Budget Act. And if there is no expenditure in the State Budget Act for certain purposes, they cannot be implemented. They can't, can they? Or isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u91	Not like that. The decision cannot be overturned.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u92	So once again, all expenses are made exclusively by the State Budget Act of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u93	Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u94	Thank you for asking. To answer that question, Mr. Lucenko was examined by the Ministry of Health’s Committee on 28.09, recommended to carry out instrumental and laboratory tests carried out under the conditions of the WHO and health care institutions, and as a result, the necessary treatment is provided. This is the last time he'll see 05. 11, he was recommended to continue the treatment for one of the proposed medical examinations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u95	In such cases, they are released.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u96	With your permission, Your Honor. You don't have to talk to me if you say you have to do this, you MPs need to change the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u97	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the "hours of questioning to the government" are over. I thank the Prime Minister and the members of the Cabinet of Ministers who today participated in the "hour of questions to the Government" and answered questions from the Ukrainian National Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u98	Chechtov, please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u99	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We have a rather tense agenda today, and a number of very pressing mundane issues that need to be adopted without delay for two weeks, as we have two weeks ahead of us and one work on committees, one work in the districts when there are no plenary meetings. Therefore, there is a proposal that we, instead of extending the session in different ways today, should be able to consider the whole agenda in a final manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, representatives of the three factions plus the MPs have submitted a proposal to the Head of the Supreme Council, I stress once again, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the faction of the People's Party, the faction of the Company, the MP group of Reforms for the Future, based on the fact that we are working every day to complete all issues of order, today in order to complete them, to work without distinction. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. [[11:12:05]] For 245 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 185, "BUT – Fatherland" did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 2, Communists – 15, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, we now have 30 minutes to question and to address those who are not satisfied with the answer. But I would like to point out that if within 30 minutes of the 121 parliamentary request being read, then those who have officially applied for discontent will have the right to do so if there are no 30 minutes left. I think we'll only take 30 minutes to get to the show. Because the 25th article provides only 30 minutes. Because there are six candidates for the speech today. That is, we can soon turn Friday into a full performance. So again, I remind you of the 25th article of the Rules: Within 30 minutes, we have questions. The time left after the request has been made, if anything remains, is in order, as the address comes to us, within the time limit they will be performing. People's MPs have been asked: The branch of the Odessa District Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor's Office of the Odessa District's Office for the Evaluation of Legal Reasons and Psychological Presences for the Establishment of About 20 Odessa Families who have legally acquired and were well-versed owners of land ownership rights, a sense of complete inviolability from the arbitrary actions of the state authorities in the person of the prosecutor's office and the panic sentiments about the possibility of their families continuing to exist, which may have lost all their property, which has already led to the killing of a man and to the suicide of a healthy young man, the father of two young children. I'm betting, my fellow Members, on supporting the request to the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:14:34]] For-95 Request not supported. Jury of Lithuania to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Cabinet of Ministers, on the allocation in 2012 of the budget subsidy to the city of Kirovograd for socio-economic development measures. Alexia Logwinenk to the Human Rights Commissioner for the Supreme Council on the return of a minor citizen of Ukraine, Luka Chapandze. Andrija Shevchenka to the Prime Minister, head of the Ivano-Frankov ODA for the allocation of funds for the construction of a new preschool facility in the village of Zvizdec in Ivano-Frankiv region. Valeria Baranov to the Prime Minister on the need to remove circumstances that impede the construction of coastal structures in Berdjansk. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister on the unwarranted payment of the debt for the heat supply to the inhabitants of Svetłovodsk. Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister for granting officers the right to receive grants without taking into account the place of registration on the basis of the certificates of the pensioner of the Armed Forces and the assistance on finding a new residence. Valeria Calchenk to the Prime Minister for the termination of pensions for participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident in the range provided for in articles 50, 54 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Eugene Kzarykov to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, Head of the President's Administration, Henprocuror, Head of the Odessa District Government for the violation of Ukrainian labour legislation in relation to employees of the state-owned enterprise "Illjitov Sea Trade Port", the preservation of the strategic enterprise of the Odessa Region and the state, as well as the non-admission of raiding the port. Zinovia Shkutka to the Prime Minister for the development of a Programme for the Replacement of Natural Gas by Electricity and Alternative Local Fuels in the Budget Area. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister for a substantial reduction in the drafting and issuance of property rights to citizens of state for the acquisition of land and land rations. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister for the expansion of the list of medicines that are dispensed by pharmaceutical establishments in the field of obstetric and obstetric centres to implement the rural population. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister for the development of a critical situation among the population of Kirovograd, Vinnitsky and Cherkas region in connection with the intentions of the Ukrainian State Railway Administration to lift 46 per cent of the passenger trains. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General for the Crime of the Feodosian Customs, who continues to deal with the notorious "Livela" by contributing to the smuggling of diesel fuel and gasoline into Ukraine, leaving 800 million dollars to the State budget. Catherine Samuelk to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the unlawful actions of the First Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics and Food of Mikola Besugog on the basis of corruption. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister, Head of the President's Administration, Minister of Culture, Attorney-General for Disgruntling and Dismantling the City of Kharkiv, without taking into account the opinion of the community, the monument to the famous Soviet teacher and writer Anton Makarenko. Mikoli Derkac to the Prime Minister on the resolution of the issues related to the functioning of the club in the village of Wessel Pavlovrad district of Dnipropetrovsk. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister on the need to take urgent measures to continue funding the State Water Program of Ukraine in a village of the town-type Kozova Ternopil district. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister for the guarantee to the inhabitants of cities of ecological living standards and for the creation of green rest areas according to the number of people. Caterina Vaschuk to the Prime Minister on the need to resolve the issue of the introduction of a mechanism to compensate for the negative value of the tax on the added value of agri-industrial processing enterprises. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister, Henprocuror for the unsatisfactory examination of parliamentary appeals and for the parliamentary request for the improper performance of official duties by the officials of Kyivo-Svatošina District State Administration and the General Administration of the State Commission in the Kyevo-Svatošin region regarding the consideration of the citizen's application to Love Pavlenko for the inability to obtain a state-owned land claim within 10 months. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister about the allocation of funds to mark at the national level the 130th anniversary of the outstanding Ukrainian civil and church official John Fireyenk. Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the operation of municipal infrastructure facilities in Talne Cherkas region. Sergey Chrapova to the Prime Minister on the situation at the state-owned company Eastern Mining and Enriching. Stepan Dawimuka to the Prime Minister on the verification of the violation of Ukrainian legislation. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, for the examination of the illegal transfer by the Kotov City Council of the Odessa Region of Property, which belongs to the Ukrainian people, to the private property of the Kotov Technical School of Association for the Promotion of Defence of Ukraine, the use of urgent measures for the restoration of national property. Valentina Matvijeva and Alla Alexandrovsky to the Prime Minister regarding the closure of the railway movement in the village of Burbulatov nearnikowy district of Kharkiv region. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on possible violations of the head of the Volin district administration of Klimczuk on land issues. [[The basket, Kirilchuk and others. Total 11 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister for the provision of accommodation for members of the Pension Service of the Chernig region. [[Mankovsky, Komara and others. Total 5 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on improving the management of the Land Book and the state registration of land rights. [[Samuelnka, Smittuha, Mutza]] Mikoli Shershun to the Cabinet of Ministers to support the development of farming in the Plains region. Catherine Vaszczuk to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy, Minister of Finance, on the urgent need to review the amount of funding for 2012 for the maintenance of the Lutsky Municipal Social Services Centre. Catherine Samoylik to Deputy Prime Minister is the Minister of Infrastructure to prevent changes in the movement of individual trains and to reduce passenger transport in the Herson region. Alexander Kemenyash to the Deputy Prime Minister is the Minister of Infrastructure for the urgent use of appropriate measures to ensure that railway tickets are available for residents and guests of western Ukraine. The National Deputies' Group to the Deputy Prime Minister is the Minister of Infrastructure for the Inadequate Response to the MP's request for the effectiveness of the use for the tourist purposes of the Helicopter Course in the village of Bakery in the Canary region of Cherkas region and the provision of information on the cost of maintaining this facility, the volume and sources of funding for its equipment. [[Tomenka, Sasa, Semireka]] Vasila Amazing to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the level of efficiency of selection by the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine notebooks with printed backgrounds, which are recommended for use in the educational process as part of the teaching-methodic complex from various subjects. Victor Olijnik to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the assessment of the legality of the activities of the Education Department of the District State Administration of the Starovižov Region of Volin Region in the matter of the closure of the Grabiwski Public Education School. Mikoli Tomenka to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the illegal release of the Director of Cherkas Public Education School No. 34, Vitalia Dainega. Vladimir Danilenko to the Ukrainian minister of health with regard to the provision of a modern ambulance for the proper medical care of residents of the district in the district of Sumilian. Sergey Shevchuk to the Minister of Health for the Service Investigation of Invalid Medical Practices at the Lviv District Clinical and Diagnostic Center. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the continued implementation by the authorities of the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine. Sergei Vlasenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine for the protection of the right to health of Yulia Timoshenko, who has not received medical care for 14 days. Eugene Goodyak to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District State Administration, on the situation that took place around Korstosev’s central district hospital called Potejina in the Gitomir region. Sergey Tereshuka to Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the financing of the reconstruction of an emergency pedestrian crossing through the Gnyliy Tikić River in the town of Zvenigradka Cherkaskie district. Sergey Shevchuk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the violation by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Health of Ukraine and the European Monitoring Centre on Drugs and Drug Addiction. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, the State Sanitation and Epidemiological Service of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Public Administration, the Thessaloniki District in Kiev State Administration, the Auschwitz District in Kiev State Administration, the Bologna District in Kiev State Administration, the Kyiv State Administration, the Holding Company Kyivmiskbud regarding the re-examination of citizens' requests for adequate housing and utility in accordance with the laws of Ukraine "On the welfare of the population" and "On housing and social services". [[Plotnik, Prutnik, and others. Total 4 deputies]] Alexia Plotnickov and Valerija Bondik to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine on the need to verify the facts presented in the appeal by Sergey Litwinenk on the removal, according to valid legislation, of obstacles to the use of movable property. Micheli Shershun to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine on the recovery of children living in a radiation pollution zone in the Plains region. Vadim Kolesnicka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Lviv Region in the investigation and prosecution of a criminal case. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the provision of information on the measures being taken by the prosecutor’s office and the internal affairs authorities to find the stolen original fragment of the tombstone of the Gehtman of Ukraine, Cyril Rosemowski. Basil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the elimination of violations related to the illegal use, possession, destruction of homes that are the objects of Kiev’s cultural heritage, and the use of measures of prosecutorial action to protect the rights of the citizen, Alexander Gluhov, and members of his family. Victor Olijnik and Mikoli Potapczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of State of the Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the investigation of the causes of the fire, possibly as a result of the fire, the residence of the city’s head of the town of Kovel Volin district of Kinder. Vladimir Ariev to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the provision of full information on the service investigation of the employees of the Brovary City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region and for the provision of information on the results of the checks. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the High Council of Justice on the Legal Assessment of the actions of the Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine, a member of the High Council of Justice, Michael Gabrieluk, who saw signs of abuse of office, unlawful interference in the exercise of justice, unlawful influence on judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, and the use of measures to prevent the Office of the Prosecutor-General from being unduly involved in the activities of the highest judicial authority of the State. Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper examination of the parliamentary appeal and the non-application of procurator's measures to provide pensions to pensioners in the Ternopil area according to court decisions. Valery Baranov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the facts concerning the unlawful actions of the founder of the Society, with limited responsibility for “Northern Building” Valeria Honcharenko in the city of Berdjansk. Vladimir Stretovic to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the need for a legal response to media reports on the commission of a crime by a person acting as a prosecutor of the Dergachev district of Kharkiv region. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the ineffective use of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine 214.5 million dollars in 2010-2011, resulting in a decrease in the purchase of medical supplies and medical supplies and a delay in the provision of life-saving drugs. Gennady Zadirk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the deliberate delay in the investigation of a criminal case committed in the event of serious bodily harm to the citizen of Razmik Iwazian, employees of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Odessa region. Gregory Smythuch to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the appointment of a review of the appeal of the Zaporozhye National Research and Design Institute of Titan to protect the interests of the state and to stop the raiding of this enterprise. Lilia Grigorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the attempt to destroy the combined construction in Ukraine. John Stoyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unfounded response of U.S. Attorney General Eugene Blazhowski to the parliamentary appeal for the illegal closure of the criminal case. Igor Jereshka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures of prosecutorial supervision by officials of the educational and judicial authorities in the Cherkas region of the requirements of the law on the comprehensive, full and objective investigation of all circumstances of a criminal case violated by the fact of the theft of property on a particularly large scale. Vladimir Matvieva to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the heads of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine on the improper investigation of criminal cases for the theft of grain in some of the Elevators of the State Reserve Agency of Ukraine and the State Shareholder Company of the Bread of Ukraine, as well as other enterprises, illegal refusal to violate criminal cases and inaction in carrying out investigations into the illegal possession of grains of the Friends of the Berdichov Sugar Company, the Chubov Grain, the Regional Technical Innovation Centre and the Inter-Agro. Alexander Kemenyash to the Attorney General of Ukraine on improper reactions to parliamentary appeals and possible violations by law enforcement authorities in the handling of Vasil Houndinz’s complaint. Osika's Sergey to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the cessation of the corruption of the Chief of the Administration of Citizens of the Kyiv City Government Administration, Oksana Brichko, on the issue of housing for the disabled person of the Second Group, participant in the liquidation of the consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl AES Yuri Mashchenka. Jury Crook to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of prosecutorial measures to protect the interests of the district community of Reni Odessa. Sergia Srapova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the hostel, addressed: Artekowska Street, 27 in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inappropriate response of officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the City of Kiev and the Attorney-General of Ukraine to the request of the Ukrainian National Deputy on the non-use of measures and gross violations by the State authorities of the constitutional rights of the many-child family of Andria Denisenka for housing, the use of urgent measures of response. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of decisions by the Corstosev District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Gitomir region, according to a statement by the chief physician of the Corstosev Central District Hospital of Potejina in the Gitomir region. [[Good, Pashinsky, Petruka]] Osika to the Attorney General of Ukraine to prevent the Chief Housing Administration of the Kyiv City State Administration from enforcing a court decision. Irina Gerashchenko and Olga Gerasimük to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal requirements of the prosecutorial authorities for the Kiev Schools for the provision of personal data on students and their parents. Mikoli Kulczynski and Yuri Karmazin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the organization of the verification of the mass price surplus for the purchase of medicines at State expense and the enforcement of housing legislation by officials of the Institute of Epidemiology and Infectious Diseases of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, and the use of appropriate response measures. Irina Herashchenko and Olga Gerasimük to the Attorney General of Ukraine for an unsatisfactory response to the request of the National MP and the irresponsibility of officials who violate Ukrainian legislation, placing in educational institutions the receptional deputies of local authorities and party advertising. Sergey Podgorny and Sergey Mishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the removal of the citizen of Mikhail Pridjick from the position of the Lower City Head for committing a crime, as provided for in section 3 of article 3 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Igora Ribakova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegality of conducting a tender from the Ministry of Internal Affairs at the state cost of biometric passport equipment. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the immediate elimination of a criminal group that operates unhinderedly in Kiev and specializes in illegal possession of elderly and lonely people. [[Ribakova, Chaplin and others. Total 20 deputies]] Sergei Vlasenka to the first deputy head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, the head of the tax police for the torture of Yulia Timoshenko, who has been confined to bed for 14 days and has not received medical care, is the investigators of the tax police. Alexander Cnervolenka and Viacheslav Koval to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the inadmissibility of approving the new master plan of Kiev without prior analysis of the reasons for the failure and errors of the previous general plans. Alexander Golub to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration to prevent the eviction of the Brovarsky Central District Library from the town of Brovary in the village of Kalinyowka of the Brovarsky district of Kyiv district and to prevent the reduction of the state of its employees. Paul Silent to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the venerable Jubilee of the prominent Ukrainian athlete Boris Shahlin. Olga Gerasimük and Irina Herashchenko are headed by the Kyiv City State Administration for an improper examination of the parliamentary request for the cancellation of the order of the Chief of the Chief Cultural Administration of August 31, 2011 to move the archaeological collection from the "Peter I Building" to the temporary premises of the "Ukrainian House". Jury Crook, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic, Head of the State Automobile Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of measures to protect Ukrainian citizens from the arrival of vehicles at pedestrian crossings in the village of Brosk, Ishmael district of Odessa. Here's all the MPs' questions. We have six minutes left, six minutes, five minutes left, six minutes left, to be able to speak to two national MPs. I invite Anatoly Gristenka to address me as dissatisfaction. I can't see. Then the dissatisfaction of the MP's request is the national MP Roman Zvaric, please. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I am not satisfied with the answer I received to my request addressed to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MP ethics and the provision of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me tell you what this is about. But let me first of all make a little preamble. You know, we've done this before, and this applies to everyone here, and it's very easy to get used to the situation where we're starting to get dirty with each other. I have heard so much from this rostrum, and I have read much more about myself and you, dear colleagues, when they talk nonsense. No one can document this, but these nonsensees go to the press about each and every one of us or, practically, about many of us. But when our families, our family, begin to tease me, it seems to me that it is long overdue for us to put an end to it, to put an end to it. In fact, in the year 22/07-2010, I emphasize, in 2010, National Deputy Victor Korge told the Information Agency of UNIAN the following, and I quote, "Roman Zvaric and his family are involved in tax-laundering schemes for added value." This has already affected my wife, which has affected my son. I think it's a homage. I'd like you to agree with me. I wrote to the regulatory committee, which was actually created by us to protect us all, not just me, but each of us, I proposed to the regulatory committee that he invite to his meeting of the national deputy Victor Korge. I then stated in my statement that in the event that a national deputy Corge would present to the commission any document not about washing my family's VAT, but that someone in my family or I myself would ask for the VAT to be returned to us once in all these years, I am willing to submit my parliamentary powers. And he said that, otherwise, if Deputy Victor Corge couldn't do it, in turn, if he had at least the slightest sense of the notion that everyone should control, it's called "honor," if he had the notion, let him make up his parliamentary powers. I'm not happy with the answer because it hasn't been done yet. So I demand that the regulatory committee establish that my family is my family.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u102	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u103	That my family is still not involved in the tax laundering of the added value, as this is slander and Ham said by National Deputy Victor Korge.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u104	And another one, we're running out of time, but we'll give Yuri Carmazin some more, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u105	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! On October 21, 2011, my request was made to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption to provide information on the use of measures to implement the numerous decisions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe regarding the investigation of the assassination of the Ukrainian national deputy, Jelyashkevich Alexandre. In the request, I asked for information on the measures that have been taken, are now being used and are being planned for the implementation of decisions No.1262 of 2001, No.1346 of 2003, No.1465 of 2005, No.1645 of 2009 and to provide information on the state of criminal investigation concerning the commission of a crime against the Ukrainian National Deputy Jelyashkiewicz. The annulment of the questionable judgment of the Pecher District Court in relation to Vorob, which he assumed, I emphasize, of his fellow respected colleagues, took over the commission of the crime, thus discussing himself and investigating the crime in connection with the newly established circumstances acquired by the colleagues of the Ukrainian Attorney General’s Office. I have the text of all this, but until now, for political reasons, this matter has not been investigated or investigated. On October 29, I received an answer from the Prime Minister of Ukraine stating that the questions raised in the request did not fall within the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers, but rather within the competence of the Prosecutor's Office. Think, please, the head of the government of the sovereign state reports that the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is four decisions that I have made, as if it were not an order for him. That is why I consider such actions by Prime Minister Azarov to be inactive because, according to the signed reply, no information has been provided on the measures being taken and planned for the implementation of the decisions of PARJA and only a request has been sent to the prosecutor's office. That is, the authority that is directly provided for by the law has not been exercised. At the same time, it is precisely to the powers of the government, such as the Prime Minister, who, in accordance with part five of article 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution, is the governing work of the government, which includes these powers. As a result, I am not only dissatisfied with this answer, I believe that such actions by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine are embarrassing Ukraine before the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Because we still have to report on the implementation of these decisions. I'm asking you to correct the appeal now, consider it a parliamentary request to these persons again, and I demand use.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u106	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u107	I demand that measures be taken to fully investigate the crime against the national deputy Jelyaškević. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished the announcement. We also heard two answers, two speeches by national colleagues who were dissatisfied with the answer to the questions. I understand that there will be more, because unfortunately, you have to say that, in fact, the answers to the questions, first of all, are not the ones you're talking to, but the third or the tenth person, and second of all, the answers that, unfortunately, are not talking about. That is why we have paid more than once attention to this. I think we're going to need, together with the Legal Committee, to think about what action can be taken at the level of the Supreme Council in order to make these requests to the relevant authorities not just paper. Perhaps even to strengthen some, at least administratively, responsibility for those who are so disciplined, administratively, perhaps even responsibility for those who so do not want to use non-parliamentary words fits these questions. Dear colleagues, we need you now signed by the Head of the Supreme Council in accordance with Article 131 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Proposal, with the aim of eliminating disagreements and inconsistencies in the adopted Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine. I'd like to support them. But at the same time, I'm talking to the profiling committees, including the committee that's found these differences. I would very much ask you, let us work in such a way that the disagreements and nuances of a bill we have with you in preparing for the second reading, because, unfortunately, for the second reading, we do not always prepare for the second reading to be scrupulous, to be thorough, to be thorough, and then to be forced to comment on the General Legal Office to vote and to make some or other amendments so that, in fact, the law of one or the other does not go beyond the limits of the legislation in force. So I'm asking you, honourable committee heads, honourable committee members, when you're working on drafting drafts for second reading, be more careful and take a very scrupulous note of the Chief Legal Authority's remarks. Because the chief legal authority for second reading always makes comments. Unfortunately, we often turn away from them, and then there's the problem that they don't consent to signing the law, and we can't go through this stage. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to remove disagreements and inaccuracies in the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and Other Legislative Acts of Ukraine, dated 12.05. [[Registration number 8130-d]] In 2011 Ladies and gentlemen, please support me. Vote. [[11:49:59]] For 270. Thank you, 270. Inaccuracies accepted. I request that the training committee prepare urgently in connection with accepted inaccuracies for the signature of the Chief Legal Authority and in accordance with the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, we are now considering the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the circumstances and consequences of activities on the Ukrainian market of the oil products of Livela and other related legal persons. No, we can't do it in a nutshell. He'll report to the head of TSK. It's proposed to give him 10 minutes to report, 5 minutes to answer questions and 5-7 minutes to each faction, to discuss a draft decision by a colleague of Zvaric. Please, Roman Mikhailovich. 10 minutes -- report, 5 -- answers to questions and 5-7 minutes -- discussion of a draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, allow me to report to you on behalf of the committee in arbitrary form. I'll let myself do that if you don't mind, because you have a written previous report on your hands. First of all, I would like to remind you that the commission was created by the relevant Supreme Council order of Ukraine on May 12, 2011, composed of 11 Ukrainian national deputies, your surnames are there. And it was already 9, including today's final session of the commission during the reporting period. In the first session, let me also inform you how the commission worked. The Commission unanimously approved the decision to oblige all members of the commission and the commission as a whole to work in strict compliance with procedural legislation. Besides, I would like to inform you that I stated at the first meeting of the commission that if there was any mistrust on the part of any member of the commission to her head, I would be willing to resign my authority in the event of a statement of my departure. I am grateful to my colleagues that such statements did not occur at any session or commission. And let me also take this opportunity to thank, in particular my deputy Alexi Petrovich Kunchenk, the Secretary of the Commission, Eugene Igorovich Kzarykov and all the other members of the Commission for their truly fruitful work. In their efforts to establish the truth objectively, uninvolved, and most importantly, without politicizing the matter. In accordance with the decision, four tasks were placed on the committee. But first of all, to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the consequences of activities in the Ukrainian market of the oil products of the company Livela and other legal persons associated with it. Set the losses. Identify the circle of guilty persons and prepare and direct materials to law enforcement authorities, in the case of setting up a circle of guilty persons. For this matter, your honor, let me inform you of the following. These are the conclusions of a commission that was unanimously approved by all without exception by the members of our commission. First of all, Livela was registered as a subsidiary on 13.10.2006. I would ask you to remember at least a year of registration for this company. The main business to which it was linked was registered on April 16, or, more faithfully, May 27, 1992, by the Lviv Mesquikonom. This firm is called "Tistra." "Levela" is the daughter of "Tysters." It has been established that the company "Tistra" is governed by the Ukrainian Foreign Investment Act. [[of March 13, 1992]] And that this firm's Statutory Fund had $400 in it. It has been established that during 2010 Livela imported different types of petroleum products and paid no taxes, no compulsory payments in connection with such activities. According to the materials we received from the customs authorities and from the tax administration, the total amount of unpaid taxes is 2 billion 892 million dollars, there with the coins. It has also been established that, in addition to Livelle in 2010, petroleum products were imported under a similar scheme of enterprises such as Ukrpromtechnergo, Our cause, Paltex, Marshall Trade Oil, etc. So I'd like to put a particular emphasis on that. This isn't just about Leoville. What I'll tell you more, according to the materials available to the commission, is that we can document that more than 7,000 enterprises were created during the time when the foreign investment law was in effect, which is about 14 months, starting on January 1, 1992, ending in May, more faithfully, in March, I don't remember the exact date of 1993. In addition, the commission can now document that over the last 10 years, besides the Lievells, these schemes, which have been established in the State Investment Act since 1992, have been used by over 400 individual enterprises. We can also document that in addition to this figure that I called 2.9 billion dollars, except for this figure, is not paid to the state budget as a result of the activities of these more than 400 companies, about 8 billion dollars. I would also ask you to think about when I say that members of the committee believe that this figure that I just called 8 billion dollars is too low. So this is the number that we can document. What was the basis of "Levia" or the other names and not my names? "Levela" used state guarantees for tax exemptions and other compulsory payments based on five main court decisions. All of these five court decisions were rendered by the Kremenchuk Automated Court of Poltava. Three of those decisions were handed down by Judge Michno, who was most likely diagnosed as oncological at the time of making these decisions. I'm just passing it on to you. I'm not making any conclusions on this. And the commission has no reason to draw any conclusions on this. Because, in fact, with the information that the commission possessed, we directed an appropriate appeal to the Attorney General’s Office to inform us, in turn, whether there was an established or possible pattern of crime in this situation. We got the answer yesterday and it's negative. That is, the Prosecutor’s Office of the Poltava Region is firmly convinced that there are no such reasons. I should have announced it. What these decisions are about. In particular, in the original decision of the Kremenchuk Autoculty Court, it's about any firm registered in this short time period as a joint venture with foreign investment, it doesn't matter what size of those foreign investments, it has the right at any time, I emphasize, at any time, to make a requirement to apply to it, for this firm, these state guarantees regarding tax evasion or other compulsory payments. The Timestra company, registered in 1992, claims such a requirement in 2004 regarding the non-payment of municipal payments. In time, the Autochrist Court makes four clarifications about the main decision. They extend the scope of this basic decision, which states that apart from the main enterprise, any enterprise created by it also has the right to claim such a requirement. So, as a result, respectable colleagues, legislation, according to this court's interpretation, are such that firms registered between 1992 and 1993 as SP can create their daughters, and they can claim requirements, and this process can go on indefinitely, and the state will only suffer losses. We went to the Institute for the Rights of the Korean Name, from which we received two expert evaluations, and I'm very sorry that this fact is not mentioned in the report itself, it's my fault, for which I apologize, especially to my colleagues on the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u110	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u111	I'm asking for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u112	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I ask you three minutes, because there is much more to be said here. The Korean Institute confirmed that these decisions were in line with legislation. The Commission carried out its analysis of current legislation. We argue that the commission really draws the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the fact that legislation is far from perfect, that there were not just two but three attempts to change existing legislation. We can say today that we know how to resolve this problem in the legal field and we will propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we accept appropriate legislative changes, we will ask you to support these changes. Yet, there is another circumstance that I need to draw your attention to. So I'm asking you to give me a chance to do this. These main decisions of the Auto-Cave Court were accused by Kremenchuck, a more faithful, tax-related Poltav region, two customs authorities, including an energy customs office, then it was, the Poltav region and the Poltav region. Kharkiv’s Court of Appeal examined their complaint, satisfied their complaints. Appropriately, the Taister refers to the Supreme Special Administrative Court, which partially accuses the Thailand complaint and sends the Kharkiv Court of Appeal to re-examine the original complaint of these four public authorities. We are very surprised by the fact that, practically within two days, all these authorities I have called having won in the Kharkiv Court of Appeal, upon the return of the case by the Supreme Administrative Court to the Court of Appeal, are refusing their appeals. [[I'm saying it's very soft for today.]] And that's not all. These refusals, these rejection concerns come to the Harkowe Court of Appeal in a fax order, except for one -- it was the issue of the energy customs. Absolutely contrary to the requirements of procedural law, the Kharkiv Court of Appeal accepts and satisfies these concerns by fax. It's all happening for two days. Dear colleagues, I'm doing this so that you can draw your conclusions on this. The bottom line. Clearly, legislation must be amended. It is clear that it is necessary to consult the prosecutor’s office, which has made it possible for the prosecutor’s office to check the grounds for stating that the three of me - named authorities of the public authorities were concerned about the refusal of appeals after the four authorities had won the case in the same court. We don't understand. To this day, we have not received a response from the prosecutor’s office. We don't know if the D.A. even opened a criminal case on this fact, a dry residue. Members of the commission at the last meeting of the commission decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to continue the work of the commission. I have to mention, I'm sorry, give me a chance to do this. Recently, about two weeks ago, a story appeared on one of the TV channels, and it warned about this story that appeared in one of the Internet videos. This article called very loud charges against senior officials, including First Deputy Prime Minister Andrija Petrovich Kljeva and the National Deputy of Ukraine Vladimir Zubik. The commission invited, this was an unprecedented fact, when the commission invited the journalists themselves to give explanations and to have the opportunity to document their words. I am grateful to the journalists for drawing our attention to such facts. Much of what was said and written by journalists was already known to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u114	Roman Mikhailovich, you've exhausted your entire schedule, including five minutes of answering questions. So finish, but there will be no more questions. You have 30. It won't. 15 minutes. It's a reporter. All right, sign up. Five minutes to ask. Zablock, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u115	Pass the sand to Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u116	A sand mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u117	Thank you. The high-ranking reporter! Of course, the problems you're talking about here are manifesting themselves, but they also appear in relation to other companies that sell petroleum products. You don't think that if it weren't for the rest of this, it would be good to turn the state monopoly back on the sale of oil products. How do you feel about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u118	I apologize to the country's distinguished national deputy, but I'm here as chairman of the interim commission of inquiry, and this is not part of my competence to answer those words. I can definitely say that there's an object here, I'm deeply convinced, for criminal investigation. The commission is unable to do so after the commission of inquiry has been selected. We therefore ask, I would even say, that we urge the Supreme Council of Ukraine to continue the work of the commission for three months, so that we can still finish our work, because, you know, honourable colleagues, that the figures and circumstances that I have called, they should still be of deep concern to each and every one of you. And that's why we have to do it anyway. The appropriate decision is registered, I will ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u119	Stanislaw Arzewittin gives John the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u120	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear reporter! Your report, the TSC materials eloquently showed that corruption, the shadow economy in Ukraine is booming. The state budget, as you can see, is not filled with tens or tens of billions of dollars. At that time, the government is persecuting people for wanting to uphold their social rights. They're thinking about reducing pensions or making payments to black people or other people to solve budget problems or pension problems. Who do you think is to blame? I absolutely agree with you that there is a criminal record here, that is, there is a reason to break a criminal case, but there must be a political assessment. Can we welcome a government that actually tolerates corruption that actually subverts a shadow economy that actually freezes billions of dollars of money for the budget? People are getting rich, they're showing off.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u121	Mr. John, it's hard for me to answer this question because I would like to actually remind you that we have decided to comply with the requirements of procedural legislation at the first session of the committee. Yet I will draw your attention to one fact. After the Cremenchuck court ruled on the matter, the Office of the Prosecutor of the Poltav Region was among the authorities that charged the decision. They win, they win, they win, they win, they win, they win. After the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court to reopen, the procurator of the Poltava region declines his appeal by referring to the Foreign Investment Act. We have this document, it's in our hands. And we should ask the D.A. to investigate these facts. Don't you think there's something wrong? And of course there's something wrong here. And that's why we insist that we still keep the TSC, so that we can, for our part, be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u122	Suskevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u123	Mr. Roman, I'd like to ask you. You gave me the number. You know, I've been sitting there, and now I'm in the budget process, and I'm going through the government offices, and I'm going to ask for funds to solve the problems of people with disabilities. Imagine that the prosthetics of the disabled are less than 50 percent of what is needed. Treatment and hospitalization for people with disabilities is financed by 6.5 percent of the needs. I'm not going to call anymore, but I've calculated that if those lost funds that you called were to be returned to the state budget, we would practically cover the expenditure next year on the disabled not all of them, but almost all of them. Please tell me, did the law enforcement authorities actually investigate where and how did the funds go? Why hasn't anyone blocked this slugbaum so far? Why did no one do anything? What did the commission receive from the law enforcement authorities in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u124	Thank you for asking. But there are some strange things that we understand at the commission level. Of course, the tax authorities and no other authorities have traced where the money was distributed because of the answer. We were interested because the answer we got was private business. We can't have any claim to them. I want you to remind us again, this isn't just about "Livewell." I've been talking about that over the last ten years, and again, the documents say that there are over 400 enterprises that have used or used these state guarantees that have been laid down in a law that has been repealed, long since, and they still continue to use these schemes. [[Read it, "plums."]] The total that we came up with, and we, again, I emphasize, we think it's a low figure, but we can only call this figure because we can document it: 2.9 billion plus over 8 billion that didn't come into the state budget in connection with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u125	Thank you. Sit down, Roman Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we have heard the report of the commission. We made a commission for six months. On November 12, she passed the six - month deadline. Today we heard a report from the commission. The chairman of the Commission's draft regulation 9449 requests that the Commission continue its work. I'm asking you, if there's a faction, write it down one minute at a time. Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin, next Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we must continue the work of the commission of inquiry, obviously that I hope that we will have the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the new head of the State Tax Administration, the Minister of Internal Affairs now to investigate these circumstances with the customs, especially the circumstances of two days and the DPA in Poltava, and in Kremenczuk, and the prosecutor of Kremenchug, and the energy regional customs, all of a sudden refused the appeal, and this happened after he did his black case to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. Because of this, I think the Ukrainian people need to know all of this, the President has to give these people an assessment, and the Supreme Council of Justice also, because the illegals are clearly exceeding their powers of decision by the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u127	Chechtev Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Kunchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u129	Please, Kunchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u130	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! As a member of the Commission, the First Deputy also, indeed, I would like to point out that the Commission has done enough professional work and that the experience of Roman Mihajlovich Zvarić as Minister of Justice has also been used. Therefore, what became possible with Livela, we have determined that more than 400 such companies in Ukraine. There is an inadequacy of existing legislation. I therefore did not vote in favour of extending the work of the Commission. And there is a proposal, and I see no reason for the commission to continue to work, so the work of the Commission must be completed. All the points that exist are to be addressed to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Higher Qualifications Commission and the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u131	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u132	Therefore, prepare all materials from the Commission and amend existing legislation so that this will not be repeated again in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u133	Thank you. Eugene Kzarykov, get ready for Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u134	In a large way, I support previous speakers, both the President and the Vice-President. I want to tell you so carefully, since time was limited that the work of this commission was similar to that of the gas TSC. I mean, they were trying to counter the situation, sorry, July in a cage, to put and develop the situation next to someone making money and giving money to a presidential company in the past to the President. I mean, unfortunately, they used it as a political lever. The second one. In a large way, the business, using the legal situation, broke down the bank. By the way, guys, like the famous Polish comedy Va-Bank, so is the Polish. And here we found no proof that there was a particular person, be it the vice-premier, be it the President who used that money outside of purpose. The tax inspection, the Office of the Prosecutor, the Customs, the BSP and the investigative authorities will still be under consideration. The question is also that political responsibility must also be taken into account, as the initiator of this commission, the famous frontist, was the initiator of the decriminalization of these crimes. And if the decriminalization of the hateful Soviet code had not taken place for them, there might have been a very different reaction to this situation in Livela. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u135	Hanustak gives to Pavlovsky. Please, Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u136	Thank you. Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". We've heard impressive figures here, and in a normal state, it would be normal, and it would be a big scandal. But in view of the fact that these are only one "Livewell" affair for 3 billion dollars and other firms, according to the report, for 8 billion. And if you add fines to that, you could cover the deficit of local budgets. And Azarov answered, said that the Chernobyls lack 6 billion dollars to pay them by law, their pensions and social benefits, so count. And it's clear that without the eyes, with the permission of the authorities, closing the law enforcement organs, the eyes without the authority, nothing would happen. And then there are specific MPs from the Party of the Regions, and here I have a member from the Party of the Regions who says that the name of this MP is Zubik, so there's someone to ask and investigate the prosecutor, all you need is desire and will. Regrettably, in today’s government, which is covering these criminal schemes, there is no such thing as a change of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u137	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal for a Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the extension of the TSK for another three months. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:19:40]] For-56 The decision is not supported. Factions: The Party of Regions – 2, "The Fatherland" – 44, "Our Ukraine" – 7, the Communists – did not vote, the reforms – 1, the People's Party – did not vote, the non-fractional – 2. Since respected colleagues, the commission was set up for six months, six months later on November 12, the commission’s work was suspended. Yes, dear colleagues, let us consult: Shall we work without interruption or interruption? No, I don't. Okay, thanks. But a statement came from two BUT and NUNS factions asking to announce a break, and they're going to meet us, and they've already decided what I want to say. Please, three minutes Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u138	Dear voters! First of all, we're talking to you from "Timoshenko, the Motherland Block." Friday is a special parliamentary day. Although it's shorter, although we're only working until lunch, but this is a very important public day, I emphasize the public issues when the government comes to Parliament, and national MPs have the opportunity, as in many countries, to ask the most pressing questions about the country's life. Today, it's been demonstrated what kind of government we have with you. I don't even know why they had to come here. It was possible to record the prepared answers that each of them wrote down by these ministers, including the Prime Minister, recorded in his office and rolled around here. You saw that those were the answers. No answer in essence. It is absolute lies, wickedness, learning, or fear, and so forth. Because I really think why they should come, let them steal this hour, because they're wasting it all the time, actually, here. Because of this, we are outraged by today's answers to Julia Timoshenko, about other questions we have not heard any substantive answer, so it seems that these are robots that are sitting there, who don't know what to do with this country, they don't know what to do with the economy. And the second question. Friday is the day when we have one hour, and the opposition, and the power, we have one hour, the MP has the right to speak, not asking Adam Ivanovich or anyone else he has the right to talk about, whether on a topic or not, is his pain, his problems and so on. We were also deprived of it. They're closing our mouths. You don't want to hear us, do you just want to hear yourself?Oh, my God! As a result, once again, in protest, we leave this meeting. Accept your primitive laws as you accept them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u139	It's the easiest way out of here. But your right. We are considering a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on shortening the deadline for the removal of land for urban needs. [[Registration number 8679]] There are suggestions from the profile committee to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:23:17]] For 223 Supported. The first deputy head of the State Agency for Land Resources, Artem Markovich Kadomski, will report. From the committee to prepare Be Beazenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u140	Good day, distinguished national deputies, reverend Adam Ivanovich! To implement paragraph 26 of the plan for the preparation of draft acts necessary to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Control, the Ukrainian State has developed a draft law amending certain legislation to reduce the time-limit for the removal of land for urban needs. In fact, the limit rule is laid down in the law that has already been adopted on urban regulation, and we have only reflected this rule in those normative acts that now regulate the time-limits for the removal of land. It is proposed that the withdrawal deadlines be sharply reduced, that these short terms be legally fixed in the Ukrainian Code of Land and in other normative acts. The maximum time limit for the submission of the specified land administration documentation will not exceed 30 days after the contract has been concluded, and the entire land collection procedure will be extended to 60 days. Please accept the bill as a basis. The comments made by the Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee of the Supreme Council will certainly be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u141	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee, please, Tereshuk Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u142	Dear Adam Ivanovichou, distinguished colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Reduction of the Period of Dedication of Land for Urban Needs, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which the Committee considered at its meeting on October 18, 2011. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine's Land Code, Ukraine's Land Administration Laws, Ukraine's Local Self-Government in Ukraine, and shorten the deadline for land issues related to construction to 10 days. Also, set the maximum time limit for land collection projects to take out land for such needs for no more than 30 days. The Committee notes that the proposed changes are not in line with valid legislation. In particular, adopted on 22 September 2011 by the Ukraine Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act. [[concerning the shortening of the documentation deadlines with the land administration]] Among other things, it is presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Where it is specified that the maximum period of time for filing the documentation with the land administration shall not exceed six months from the time of the conclusion of the contract. At the same time, the proposed bill proposes a maximum period of time for the construction of land-use projects for urban needs, which is included in the list of land-use documentation, 30 days from the time of the contract. As a result of these differences, there will be misunderstandings, the law of which will have to be used in the drafting of such projects. Disagreement with valid legislation also applies to amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, which provides for the convening of a session at least once every 10 days. While the law treats councils as representative bodies of local self - government, it gives them the status of legal persons and confers them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u143	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u144	Therefore, taking into account the above-mentioned and conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, which is proposed to forward the draft law to the subject of the legislative initiative. Please, Your Honor, back up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u145	Yeah, right. Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Yes, it is. Who else is insisting? Chaplain. Sign up. Yes, please, Chaplain. Arjovitin is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u146	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, well, when we were preparing to make a statement on this bill, it's a really strange situation when, on the one hand, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine registers and actually insists on the adoption of the Land Administration Bill in this room, and introducing a similar bill today, where the terms do not beat each other. [[I'll remind you that on September 22 he was accepted by us definitively, signed, undeclared.]] This is the only observation that I really think is right. And today, the distinguished national deputy Tereshuk, who reported from the committee, was 100 percent right. What are the only conclusions that can be drawn? Now, look, today in the big cities, millions of cities are creating land disorder when, on social needs or on the needs of local self-government, you can't get timely documentation on land travel in order to build your own objects. In Kiev, it could take a year and a half, in Odessa, Kharkiv, Donetsk and so on, there are also, I won't talk about the deadlines, because we don't live there. Clearly, then, this problem must be solved. And we think of it as a parliamentary group that's focusing its efforts on the reforms that Parliament should be leading in our society, that we shouldn't send such a bill to work on, because we're going to waste some time again. We'd like to make an offer. Let us vote on it in the first reading. Let us change it to a second reading that does not conflict with article 166 of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u147	Please, Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u148	In fact, I also share the views of the previous speaker on first reading. Because everything about the reduction of terms is useful. And that's very urgent. Therefore, there is a need for us to accept it in our first reading. These are terms that, as was said today, do not strike, I think that there is a possibility either of reading a second reading or of passing separate laws where it does not strike. So I also suggest that we not postpone it but accept it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u149	Yes, Panushka, please. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u150	I stayed to say my word. They reached out to the holy ones, to the local self - rule. So, 10 days, it's like boys on call or something? I see here the hand of a lobbyist who wants to quickly solve his question in 10 days so that no one can figure anything out. Call a session like this, MPs quietly, press the button quickly, or they'll go to the SSO to sit down. Because they didn't keep the deadline. Is that what you want? So respect, your descendants will come to your place after that. Would you like to be treated like this? I don't think they'd want to treat you like that. There's a technological process. The technological process of studying the subject. If this is about a year and a half, this is a disruptive technological process! But to make a technological process within ten days is bullying. So I suggest you take this project off the table. Because this is the second time they've violated the rights of local self - government! They wanted to simplify the procedure in general on the solution of these issues, well, on the accelerated delimitation of land. Now they want to multiply the local self-government by zero. The 21st century is an era of local self - rule. Respect him in the end! This is a parallel power that protects us from the cataclysm of this autocratic system that is now rolling all over the country! Have God, after all! It's the same MPs as you. They're solving issues that are much more urgent than here than you are, and they're much more responsible than they are in this room. Because their error is instantaneous and they acknowledge it. And you make your mistakes, and you never answer for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u151	Yuri Ivanovich, according to the ideology of the speech, you're right, but to blame yourself, it's self-criticism. And there's a lot of stuff out there. Yes, please, in a minute, Seminoga and Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u152	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, well, here you can really talk a lot about this, discuss it, but there is a problem that needs to be solved today. I'll give you just one example. You all know what a catastrophic situation in our country today with waste from our livestock has accumulated 35 billion tons in Ukraine. And unfortunately, this problem is not solved. There's an enterprise in the state today called Ucreresource, which today has the money on its balance sheet to solve this issue. Sadly, though, for several years this business has been fighting local councils, trying to take the land away for the construction of garbage processing plants, and it cannot solve this problem. I agree that the bill is not ideal, that it has problems, that it takes into account the interests of local self-government and many other issues. But the bill is necessary, it needs to be accepted. And I also associate myself with the idea that in the first reading he has the right to accept, and the second reading to work out, and that he is really the one that will satisfy all parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u153	And Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I had to be a member of both the district council and the district council before becoming a member of the Supreme Council. But I have never been taught to be so inhospitable, so unconscionable in the preparation of the document. When the explanatory note says that the amendments to articles 123 and 151 of the earthly code are proposed, these are, in fact, changes to five articles: 3, 39, 42, 118, 159. Absolutely right was the representative of the Committee of Tereshuk, thanking him for his professional approach. He said professionally that a bill was made with legs, without brains at all, so accept anything, if you'll excuse me, you can't. There are valid laws, there is the Law on Rules, there is self-respect in the Supreme Council as an organ. And, you know, it's not possible to accept everything in the first reading, it's not a document, it's a piece of crap.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u155	Question completed. I am voting on the adoption position on the basis of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the reduction of the time-limit for the removal of land for construction needs]] [[Registration number 8679]] [[12:35:26]] For 246 Thank you. The bill was adopted in the first reading. Please make a profile committee, without violating 116 articles in preparation for the second reading to improve it. We are considering: a draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine on the provision of disabled persons with technical and other means of rehabilitation made on an individual basis. [[Bill 9050 registration number]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[12:36:14]] For the 220. Offer supported. According to Sergey Leonidovich Tihypco, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy. Prepare Valery Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u156	Dear Mr. Head! Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Currently, there are about 2 million people with disabilities in Ukraine. One of the most important ways to integrate people with disabilities into social life is to provide them with technical and other means of rehabilitation. To this end, the government has launched a systematic policy to increase the amount of government budget expenditure for the stated purpose. Yes, the 2012 budget provides for an increase of 65 percent, although after the 2011 budget review, we also increased these costs. What's the problem? Under current legislation, disabled persons today have no right to choose for themselves the technical and other means of rehabilitation and the manufacturer. How does the mechanism work today? Today, a disabled person submits a claim to the welfare authorities. The general needs of persons with disabilities in technical means of rehabilitation are transferred by the Social Protection Fund for tenders. The tendering procedure provides for the possibility of purchasing an analogue product. I want to pay attention to that, the analog of the product. He rides in one wheelbarrow, and the analogy may be quite different from what he has today. It may be much worse than that, but at the expense of the price, these products can win a tender. As a result, the disabled person will receive not the means of rehabilitation that he is comfortable and comfortable with, but his analogy, which is different not only from the manufacturer but also from certain technical features. For the purpose of granting the right of disabled persons to choose for themselves the technical and other means of rehabilitation and the manufacturer, the government has submitted a bill for your consideration, the honourable national deputies, and the corresponding bill. In particular, the bill proposes that article 26 be supplemented by a new standard whereby persons with disabilities are provided with technical and other means of rehabilitation on their individual application.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u157	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u158	in the form of financial assistance to persons with disabilities for the cost of products and the provision of services through the cash-free recalculation of funds by the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities enterprises that have implemented the listed applications of persons with disabilities. I've held a meeting with organizations of people with disabilities, and they fully support this approach, the individual approach, because tenders are corruption. We had years when they were fitted with wheels of Chinese, such as the same production. They were broken three months later, and disabled persons from 4 to 8 years of age should use them. I am very much asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u159	Thank you. Don't get into an international scandal, don't criticize the products of the friendly People's Republic of China. Have a seat, please. Valeriy Suškevitch, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u160	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. National MP Suškević, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! I want to support the idea of the bill because one of the authors of this idea was me. In fact, today it is not the disability that determines what kind of rehabilitation, the prosthetics he gets, but the uncle who carries out the tender and essentially determines what he gets. This is a totally wrong situation. And in fact, the bill is really about reforming this system. But, dear fellows, I'm characterizing this bill by saying, "We wanted it better, but we didn't know how." Unfortunately, the bill is not systematic, and the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, having considered the issue at its meeting, drew attention to the systemicity of the issue related to the implementation of the main idea of the bill. That is why our committee held committee hearings. During the hearings, we considered all the questions, pointing out that today neither the source of funding nor the right of a disabled person to rehabilitate. We have noted that the State is being removed from the purchase of technical means of rehabilitation, in fact, the government’s obligations and other issues that are problematic are being eliminated from the bill. But the main thing. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, this bill amends one article, and the committee will not be able to work with you, along with all the subjects of the legislative process, to ensure the systematic drafting of the bill. That is why the committee hearings suggested that the bill be sent for further elaboration so that there would be no single article. You remember the 116th article of the Rules. In this regard, we will not be able to do so on the committee with the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u161	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u162	We will not be able to complete this bill and a very good idea – I stress, which is really supported by disabled people and public organizations, to complete it. I mean, the committee didn't support this bill or decide on the decision, and I went to the Supreme Council Hall to define this issue. My proposal, personally as chairman of the committee, as a person working in this direction long ago, I have an offer: nevertheless, to allow this bill to be systematic, to decide the issue, including the disabled, by medical means. Regrettably, the bill, the Ministry of Health, was narrow - minded and ignored the bill. And this is another problem for the disabled in Ukraine. Please send this bill for further work and work on it quickly so that in the following year the disabled can get a new alternative to their rehabilitation and means.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u163	Thank you. Valery Mikhailovich, of course you're better at this than others, but my opinion is simple: better something, at least something than nothing. For as long as you get the adoption of a bill that will solve all the problems of the disabled, we will lose even minimal help. So let us at least take small steps to resolve these questions. Sign up for the performance. Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u164	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. The honourable colleagues, of course, in those words spoken by Sergey Leonidovich, on the one hand and in those words spoken by Valeriy Mikhailovich, are true. It is also true that tender procedures greatly complicate the situation and it is true that, as Valeriy Mihajlovich said, the document is unfortunately not systematic. In principle, it is possible to decide whether to re-read or return to the Ministry of Social Policy and Work. But on the other hand, it's going to turn out fine for us here, but for the disabled, it's going to be a waste of time. Because, really, we have to move. There are two approaches to the legislative process. A document can be polished to shine and then accepted, after wasting time, or you can accept a document of this part, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, so that the necessary ingredients regarding the problem that Vladimir Mikhajlovich spoke about were followed by a fast-tracked and accepted by another document so that at the stage of the second reading we could read it. Bringing them together in a single document is also an approach. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine is still going to speak for this approach in order to support it now in the first reading. But I want to address you again, Sergio Leonidovich. Valeriy Mikhailovich is right about what we asked at committee hearings about the complexity of this document. Regrettably, it is presented in a previous way. That's why I'm asking you to understand what it is. Only part of the problem is solved, let's do everything we can to solve the problem in a complex way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u165	Asshole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u166	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Gennady Zadirko, MP of Reforms for the Future, Mikolayevščina. The MP endorses the idea of a bill to provide certain categories of persons with disabilities with technical and other means of rehabilitation made on an individual basis, as well as to provide them with public funds to pay their costs through a cash-free recalculation of funds to the companies concerned. At the same time, in our view, the bill contains a number of shortcomings that we feel must be addressed. First of all, the provision of state aid to persons with disabilities does not comply with the rule that these funds are listed not directly to the disabled but to enterprises that have made the relevant applications. The vice-premier has just talked about the shortcomings associated with the tenders, the shortcomings that unfortunately have to do with corruption. And you have to understand that a disabled person will never buy a bad wheelchair, he will better report his expenses, and he will buy quality. And so we can get away from this shameful practice and what unfortunately is in the reality of the Ukrainian economy, such as corruption. It's different. There is no money - support source, no order of identification for the citizens to whom it is to be provided, nor is it to be specified or to be limited in money. Third. Failure to predict the right of a disabled person to determine for himself the manufacturer of rehabilitative devices, and to obtain payment for his own account for a rehabilitation device whose cost exceeds the set threshold. Again, the issue of combating corruption and using public funds effectively, and what this law is for is the protection of a disabled person. The disabled, I emphasize again, will never buy any quality products and better report their personal costs, I emphasize, to make this product quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u167	Rudchenko, pass it on to Zarubinski. And Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u168	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Just here, a colleague of ours, who had not left this session hall for nearly a quarter of a century, urged everyone to leave the hall so as not to vote in favour of these, he said, primitive laws. Obviously, a law that helps people with disabilities is primitive, since how is it possible to display eloquence and literary talents? For this reason, the Soviet authorities will not give a national prize because there is no fight against bourgeois Ukrainian nationalism, there is no recognition of Lenin's course and everything else. The primitive law, really, how do you show yourself here, how do you show your eloquence here? And this law is important, and you know why it's important? Because it makes it easier, it just makes it easier, and it speeds up the ability of the disabled to have something that they cannot live without. This is the key position, everything else is, you know what. Everything else is a word, a word and another word. If this law is imperfect and certain observations are made by the scientific and expert department regarding the provision of information. I think the Ministry is interested in giving us this information when preparing for second reading so that we will make all the appropriate decisions. Indeed, those who sit here are not interested in the adoption of the law as a whole, ideal, filtered, if that is the case. Once again, this law allows people with disabilities to simplify their procedures and to provide them with technical means that they can't live without, without which they can't move. And that's a dot. The People's Party faction will vote unanimously in favour of this bill. He's not primitive, he's primitive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u169	Yes, the countrymen are fighting, Winnietzka has given the people. Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, the bill is the essence of the bill: Article 26 of the Basic Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities is being amended. The step is extremely positive. The government met and simplified the procedure, provided the disabled with technical equipment, and with rehabilitation. There's nothing more to talk about here, definitely a positive bill, it needs to be supported. But. Dear colleagues, in this session room, we have passed a lot of drafts with you that were aimed at social protection, including the Chernobyl, the Afghans, and so forth. What was the problem then, and could it be now? If the law does not clearly define the procedures for the mechanism of implementation and financing, in the end, there is one evil instead of good. So I suggest that, in the first reading, we support it, and in the transition committee, we write down what bills need to be amended. This is not contrary to article 116 of the Rules. And the second. Dear colleagues, today 80, nearly 90, thousands of people with disabilities are waiting for light cars. In a year, the state has been able to allocate a thousand-and-a-half, and 80 years no one can and will wait. What's the situation? Banally simple and stupid. A closed car factory has set up four types of vehicles for people with limited capacity and is now ready to install them. The government remains to negotiate with the company if, for example, there are no funds in the government today. One more. The Ice Company has released and released on its fear and risk a wheelchair for people with disabilities of different sizes: 41, 39, relieved, increased – they also have no funding. So I urge you today, using Sergio Leonidovich's presence, listen, we and the disability problem can solve and we can solve the problem of supporting a domestic producer, jobs, budgeting. So that's the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u171	Thank you, Jaroslav. That's right. And that reminds us once again of Yuri Anatolyevich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u172	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Sergio Leonidovich! First of all, I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister for coming here today personally to take care of this matter. Believe me, we don't often have prime ministers today. That's a brave move. More than 3 million people with disabilities. Because of what is being done in the first reading. This is the ideology of the project. Ideology is correct: To allow and reduce corruption of the moment involved. Ideology is absolutely right. I have great respect for my colleague Suškević. I think we and 26 can stick together. And since the government is taking the initiative, it may now be a proposal for other articles, and we do not go beyond 116, which certainly needs to be circumvented. And the next. Of course, I want to support our colleague Dryhog, we're not the first ones to work with him in one, in one Supreme Council. So, Sergey Leonidovich, these are very good suggestions. What happened? We're building stadiums with nothing to do with Ukrainian equipment, our factories.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u173	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Thank you. You're right as always. Ladies and gentlemen, let us act wisely. I personally believe that we can now adopt this law as a whole and ask either the government, or the profiling committee, to immediately submit new initiatives to amend those bills that you consider necessary. Why do I propose to accept it as a law? Because you and I don't work for two weeks, we don't know when to adopt, and this law needs to be included in the 2012 budget. So I'm making this proposal and I'm asking you very much, you're absolutely right, colleague Suškević is right, and all those who have spoken, that we really need to improve legislation, please improve, but don't hold back at least the slightest steps. I am voting on the approval of the Law on Amendments to Article 26 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine on the provision of technical and other means of rehabilitation made on an individual basis. [[Registration number 9050]] Please support me as the law. [[12:55:20]] For 271 Thank you, the law has been passed. And we're giving a protocol commission to quickly prepare the necessary legislation. And I make a commitment to promote it as quickly as possible. We listen to the question: the draft Law on Amendments to Article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on the identification of the significant value of Ukrainian goods in the cost of building an electrical facility]] Registration number 9444. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[12:56:07]] For 232 Supported. I invite you to the report of the national MP Igor Głushchenk, please. He's from the committee, but I think you can handle it in two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u174	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The current legislation does not address the issue of determining the body that approves the rules for the establishment of raw materials of essential materials and services of Ukrainian origin in the cost of building an appropriate electrical facility. Also, there are undeclared documents that can support the country of origin for the purpose of determining the value of raw materials of essential materials, works, and services of Ukrainian origin in the cost of building an appropriate electrical facility. At the same time, there is a need for an editorial clarification as to the exact moment when a requirement for the value of goods, jobs, and services of Ukrainian origin is applied. These problems, gaps need to be solved by making appropriate changes to Article 17 prime. Ukraine's Electricity Act. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the positive findings of the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the decision of the PEC High Council. Please accept as a basis the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u175	Yes, respected colleagues, Igor also reported from the committee. Is there a need to discuss? I won't. I think there's not a lot of respectable colleagues, again, given that there's practically nothing here and there's not much to it, let's take it as a law as a whole. The idea is clear. I'm asking you to support the Law on Amendments to Article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Electricity Act. [[on the identification of the significant value of Ukrainian goods in the cost of building an electrical facility]] [[Registration number 9444]] Please vote like the law. [[12:58:32]] For 260 Thank you. The law is passed. We're hearing a bill amending the Ukrainian Investment Act. [[about matching terminology]] [[Registration number 9024]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[12:59:00]] For 212 Offer supported. Pavlenko Volodymyr Petrovich, Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade Get ready for Platoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u176	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a bill amending the Ukrainian Investment Act is proposed. The bill proposes to amend the national registration of investment projects requiring State support and an assessment of their economic efficiency. The bill also envisages bringing terminology into line with valid legislation, defining the terms "investment project", content, components of an investment project, directions, routes and actions of state support and stimulating investment activity. Today, there is no monitoring and there is no evaluation of the effectiveness of the use of state support for investment projects. This does not ensure the efficiency and purpose of the use of public funds. The introduction of State investment registration projects, the compilation of all investment projects requiring public support, in a single register will enable appropriate monitoring and analysis of decisions relating to public regulation in the field of investment activities, as well as the introduction of investment projects that have positive findings of public expertise in line with current legislation, including their implementation, will be economically efficient, energy-efficient, environmentally sound. In view of the above, I propose the adoption of a draft Act amending the Investment Activities Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u177	Thank you. Please, Plednik's Alexi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u178	The President-in-Office of Ukraine, the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 18 October 2011, reviewed the draft Act amending the Law on Investment Activities of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[about matching terminology]] The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is of the view that the bill needs further work. The Committee on Economic Policy has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Investment Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted on the first reading on the basis of the comments made by a member of the Committee in preparing the draft for second reading. [[about matching terminology]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, let's do this. No, no, no. My colleague Karmazin is delegating his right to speak for one minute of Arjevetin. Well, two then, please. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u180	Dear National Deputies! Well, seriously, really a bill, I think it's very formal. And by 100 percent you can agree with the scientific expertise that it needs to be rejected for work. Well, it's like an instruction. This can be accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, let me give you a couple of examples. Investment activities with securities are carried out in an order established by law on securities and the stock market. What's the difference? The direction of public support investment activities is determined by software documents approved and established by the legislative order. What else? The main purpose of the explanatory note is to focus on the directions, ways and actions of public support and to stimulate investment activity, which is not really explained. So it's the main thing. And I think if we don't change legislation like investment, and we don't focus, for example, on banking sector reform, capital market development, technological modernization of production, economic growth in agriculture, of course, energy sector reform, after all, scientific innovation, I don't think we're going to have to talk about investment. That's why I think we should agree with the science-experimental office today to send it for processing and to put it in a completely different structure. And to advise the task force, please read a new course, a national report from the National Academy of Sciences. Read it, and enough to take the basic directions that are needed for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support in the first reading the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Investment Act. [[about matching terminology]] [[Registration number 9024]] Please vote. [[13:04:44]] For 260 Supported. We are hearing a draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. [[on the provision of information from the Single State Register]] [[Registration number 9056]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. [[13:05:18]] For 224 Supported. Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky, First Deputy Minister of Finance. Prepare Michael Chechtchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u182	Good day, honored by Adam Ivanovich, honored national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by a bill amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. In the process of carrying out control measures, public authorities face the challenge of selecting quality controls to carry out audits, public financial audits, and public procurement checks that may involve risks of infringements. Today, the information contained in the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs - is provided to the public authorities in the form of an extract from the register, information about the presence or absence of information that is being asked. This legislative norm leads to the failure of public authorities to possess reliable information about their controlled enterprises, institutions, and organizations, particularly in support of their existence. In doing so, taking into account the deadlines for receiving State authorities’ withdrawals from the register and requesting individual institutions, information may be lost in urgent controls, court hearings, and so on. Thus, the existing form of information does not allow the authorities of the State to carry out analytical work on the selection of objects that may be at risk of violations. The draft law proposes to complement the specified electronic reporting of data to public authorities in connection with the exercise of the powers defined by law. In doing so, the procedure for the provision of information shall be established by an authorized public registration authority in agreement with the relevant public authority. Thus, the adoption of this bill will contribute to the networking of state-owned authorities, institutions, organizations with a view to carrying out a preliminary analysis of their quality selection based on the risk assessment of infringements. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u183	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u184	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, reviewed the draft law and decided to recommend the session hall to accept the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u185	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Please, Chaplain, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u186	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I understand that we are all in a hurry, but I would like to express our position on this bill. Three reasons why this bill should be voted on without even discussing it. In principle, we could make proposals to accept it not only in the first reading, on the basis and in general. First of all, this bill is going to implement a plan of action to counter illegal takeover and capture businesses. Secondly, such a small part, such as the introduction or transfer of information to the public authority to carry out their authorizations on enterprises, not on paper media, but on electronics, actually provides the opportunity to work with these data sets, to run a so-called new model, which is referred to here as a risk assessment for each enterprise, and to reduce the pressure on businesses by fiscal pressure when millions of business checks are carried out, and in fact these operators believe that they are being pressured by the state. But there's a point to why I'm still paying attention if we're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u187	Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u188	Just a minute. If we vote in general, it will be fine. Hopefully, there is no right to transfer information from the authorities of the State to any other third party, even if it is not prohibited by law. This is a very good offer, and we would very much like it to appear in our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u189	Yes, Your Honor, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority thinks we don't have to accept it at all, because there's another bill under number 9021 that's absorbing this bill. Perhaps so, and in this regard, I turn my attention to the Cabinet of Ministers at all times. Unfortunately, they do not have legislative coordination. Each department gives what it thinks is necessary, and then these bills sometimes do not come together. And so we would ask for a balanced approach to the Bills and on the same subject, if there's an interest in different departments, to submit not dozens of bills from each ministry, but to submit one bill, then it'll be better. But in general, I don't think you're going to spoil the mess. So let's adopt a law in general, number 9056, amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs. [[on the provision of information from the Single State Register]] Please vote. [[13:11:00]] For 264 Thank you. The law is passed. We're hearing a question: a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the procedure for setting housing and utilities tariffs. [[Registration number 8641-d]] [[re-read]] Reported to the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy of the Mayor of Serbia. Please have a short-term proposal. Please be supportive. [[13:11:43]] For 219 Offer supported. Please, Sergey Fedotovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u190	On September 20th of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to submit a bill amending certain laws on the procedure for setting housing and utility tariffs for our committee to prepare for re-reading without supporting the committee's decision to adopt it as a basis for the first reading. The bill aims to create a level playing field for businesses that provide residential services. The bill proposes to remove the regulatory procedure when setting tariffs on residential services. Today, more than 80 percent of companies that provide heat and water services, i.e. tariff manufacturers, are set up by a national commission that regulates public utilities without regulatory procedures. And the provider of services, a small company that serves the population, approves a local self - government body with such procedures. The breakup during these procedures is more than three months. In tariffs. The lack of circulation costs, however, has led to a deterioration in the quality of services. At the time of adoption of the bill, the regulatory procedure for setting housing and utility tariffs will be cancelled; the consumer's notice of change in tariffs for services will be reduced to 15 days, and an order will be set for consumers to submit information on the listing of housing and utility services, the structure of these tariffs, the change in tariffs based on their need and the corresponding position of the territorial communities. Let me get this straight. Inefficient tariff procedures are eliminated, and business activity is made more public and transparent when changing tariffs. In particular, I note that this bill does not contain any rules for raising tariffs, or other standards that make the standard of living worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u191	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u192	In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft amended bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u193	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Please, Rudchenko and Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u194	Right. Lechenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u195	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, the explanatory note to this bill states that the process of setting up local housing and utility tariffs requires a lengthy regulatory procedure, including the fulfilment of established deadlines for the publication of draft decisions, public hearings and discussions, etc. As a result, when service tariffs are put into effect, the actual cost of services exceeds what is planned in the tariffs. In this context, once again, I stress that many residential-communal enterprises, for example, heatcommunerge, TEC, archerge, obelergers, water-supply companies, individual JEKs are in private hands, of course they want to get as much income from their activities as possible. So they charge tariffs and services in a variety of ways. In many cases they are unfounded, these tariffs. Yet, the authorities are always on their side, not considering that wages and pensions in the vast majority of ordinary people are scarce. So before this bill was introduced, even though people were able to get to know each other early, because this act was published, public hearings, discussions, and thus affect tariffs somehow. If we accept this bill, our people will simply be deprived of such a right to participate in the formation of tariffs. That is why I call on the Ukrainian people's deputies not to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u196	Question completed. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the procedure for setting housing and utility tariffs. Registration number 8641-d. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:17:01]] For 237 The Law was adopted in the first reading. We're looking at a bill to restore the ability of the borrower or to declare him bankrupt, a new edition. [[Registration number 8531]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:17:33]] For 232 Offer supported. Reported by Paulenko Vladimir Petrovich, Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade. Prepare the Voropeyeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u197	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Your consideration is given to the draft Law on Restoring the Payability of the Debtor or Recognition of Its bankruptcy. Bankruptcy in Ukraine is currently excessively long-term, and bankruptcy procedures are not followed. The current practice demonstrates the arbitrary interpretation of periods of bankruptcy, leading to an unjustified extension of these periods to an unlimited number of times. In addition, general court procedures are established. The law does not provide specific deadlines for the exercise of individual rights and obligations of those involved in the process, whose implementation makes it possible and delays the process into practice for up to 50 years. The longevity of the bankruptcy process in Ukraine is also due to the fact that the bankruptcy procedure is extremely ineffective, the level of preparation of arbitration officers who are unsatisfying. Thus, the bill set out clear deadlines for the execution of property management procedures – 100 days, 18 months, 18 months, 12 months, which could be extended once for up to six months. In addition, it is possible to move from property management to sanitation only on the basis of the debtor's recovery plan. With a view to minimizing property and time-consuming the bankruptcy case, as well as to encouraging the recovery of business's ability to pay in pre-trial recovery procedures, the possibility of early diagnosis of the debtor's insolvency has been expanded. According to the State Statistics of 1.10.11, there is a debt of 491 million dollars for bankruptcy firms. In order to protect the employees of bankruptcy companies, all payment requirements are met in an extra order to strengthen the social protection of the debtor’s employees as a result.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u198	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u199	Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u200	Thank you. Yuri Voropeiev, please, is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! This bill has been considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting, and the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and submit it to the same committee for further elaboration. For what reason? If you look at the conclusions of our expert office, at the comments of other organizations, you'll see a lot of them. In order to be able to finalize the bill, without violating article 116 of the Rules, the Committee recommends that the following items be improved in the process of refining. Can I count it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u202	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u203	The appointment of arbitrators needs to be improved, the publication of information on bankruptcy, a clear list of grounds for violating bankruptcy in order to prevent fictitious bankruptcy and to open the procedure without justification. Forming the liability of the debtor of the total amount of debt in the previous court meeting at the property management stage. It is also necessary to improve the mechanism for correcting the debtor’s assets, the specificity of the court’s decisions in bankruptcy proceedings, the right of the debtor’s property, the specification of the project’s provisions on the treatment of the insolvency court in all the property disputes required of the debtor. Deal with the issue of succession, settle the issue of grounds for refusal and enforcement and the consequences of the infringement. Deal with the issue of the completed property management procedure, determine the authorization of the investor in the recovery procedure. The specificities and satisfaction of the requirements of the creditors of the individual, the entrepreneur, the recognition of bankruptcy. To improve other issues of bankruptcy proceedings by the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u204	Thank you. Arjovitin, please. Carmagine authorizes him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u205	Dear national MPs, indeed, this bill, a more faithful new version of the law, very much good money is given, and of course the bill is ready for first reading. But you have to think about whether it's all right, and just the fact that 11 pages is the observation of science and science management shows that we need to take this seriously. And I think maybe we should not forget, for example, not to extend the law to non-profit organizations, maybe religious organizations, party organizations, trade organizations and other non-profit public organizations. On the contrary, it may be appropriate to extend the standards of this bill where there is a hidden or fictitious bankruptcy that will now extend to state - owned enterprises to extend all these standards to other owners. It seems to me that we need to be more careful about the criteria for accepting bankruptcy claims of entrepreneurs, given that we know what sort of raiding practice we have in Ukraine. I think it's more balanced to go to the criteria for the formation of the employment authorities of creditors and the liquidation commission. Because now they will determine the further fate of this property, which will be realized and especially of auctions. I think there should be such a wide-ranging discussion as to whether we should spread the norm of notation of this property. Because it's not predicted today, and I think we need to think about whether or not we're going to make a service bear that standard. I think we need to define more clearly the jurisdiction of an arbitrator, who today will have quite a lot of powers. And when you read this law, you see so many exceptions coming out of the laws in force that they seem to be able to balance the laws and codes in force. Therefore, we need to approach the second reading carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u206	Thank you. Shall we vote? 30 seconds of Carmazine. Please, the microphone. He's working for two factions with Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u207	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing a committee of professionals, because this is a matter of considerable relevance to our Committee on Justice, and here is an attempt to substitute, in fact, the role of justice by the executive branch of power, contrary to the Constitution, this must also be aligned with our committee. First. It's different. We adopted three laws in the first reading: 3528, 6612, 7329. In the first reading, they were accepted. Now this is all a change to this law. Now it turns out that we have to deal with the situation. If we're going to adopt this law, we're going to have to have those removed, because here's the new edition, or we're going to agree to do the law together. For this reason, I would ask that this inadequacy be removed as well. Because it had to be reported now, then it had to be cancelled or reversed, this government had to be analyzed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u208	And thank you for your wise advice. There is a proposal to adopt, on the basis of the Law on Restoration of the Payment of the Debtor or Recognition of It by Bankruptcy in a New Edition. [[Registration number 8531]] Please vote. [[13:26:26]] For 269 Copy that. Can we ask about shortening the deadline for drafting the bill? All right, 14 days. 14 days. We're considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Warm Supply Act. [[on the use of a technological minimum of natural gas]] Registration number 9374. The committee is asking him to move it here, but maybe let's take a look. Who's in favour of looking at the reduced procedure, please support. [[13:27:25]] For 235 Supported. Reported by Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Vladimir Alekseiovich Makuha.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u209	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Heat Act has been developed to implement the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the 2010-2014 Programme of Economic Reform, "Affordable Society". A competitive economy. An effective nation." Today, there is a significant debt on the part of enterprises for the natural gas they consume, which is constantly growing. At the same time, there are virtually no effective influences on debtors to ensure timely and complete calculation of the natural gas consumed. Yes, according to the Ukrainian Heat Supply Act, the National Stock Company Naftogaz Ukraine cannot apply the mechanism of disconnection from the gas supply of the debtors during the heating period. And when such action does take place, the courts will rule on the restoration of the heat supply. At the same time, according to the Ukrainian Law on Principles and Functioning of the Natural Gas Market, the gas supplier is obliged to release natural gas only on a per cent basis and has the right to cease the supply of natural gas to consumers if the period of payment of the gas consumed and the services provided by it is violated. For the purpose of settling this coalition, it is proposed to adopt the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Heat Supply in part of the obligation of the consumer of thermal energy to pay and provide the organizations exclusively for the current accounts with a special regime of use. And it's also suggested that the term "technological minimum of natural gas consumption" should be introduced, which means the minimum level of natural gas consumption by the consumer of such gas other than the population, which ensures the nominal functioning of the enterprise and prevents the occurrence of an extraordinary situation of technological and natural tenure. And give the gas supplier the right to limit the borrower's business to the technological minimum. Taking into account this issue into account and the relevance of the issue, the introduction of a legislative regulation governing the use of a technological minimum, please adopt the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Heating.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u210	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yeah, it was pretty convincing, but Carmazin wants to help us. Please, Carmazin and Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u211	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national deputies, few of us in the hall, very few. It's hard for you to make decisions right now, you're running, people are serious. True, one faction leader, I see only Igor Fedorovich Sharov of the faction leaders, no more faction leaders. But, Your Honor, think about the responsibility of this law, which now, when winter comes, decides what will limit the energy supply of heating facilities to the so - called technological minimum. I remind you that the Law of Article 6 of the Warm Supply Act prohibits the switch-off of heating facilities from energy, gas, water supplies as life - sustaining and strategic targets. Because of this, if we adopt this law, there is such a terrible danger that it is obvious that it may be possible to exclude health, education and defence institutions, as it has been on more than one occasion, for one banal reason that the budget does not count the cost. That's why this law, which is completely incomplete, and it does the right thing, is the conclusion, the scientific expertise, in this case it's anti-national, it carries deep threats, deep threats and it doesn't do any good. As a result, we cannot vote for him, but we cannot vote in the winter without all the insurance elements. That's why I'm going to ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to count the number of deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u212	There are enough deputies in the session room to make good decisions. Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u213	Thank you. The Communist faction. Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, the law is small in scope. Moreover, I believe that it could even be reduced to one sentence, because the substance of the bill is set out in one sentence: "the gas-efficient organization has the right to limit the consumption of natural gas to its consumers to the technological minimum consumption in the event of default or to pay in full for the natural gas used and its transport services." You know, honourable colleagues, to a certain extent, this bill today is resonating with the topic of today's "government hour." The drafters, I understand the bill is government, and they care about the situation, but what it says is that 13 billion is owed for gas. So what I'm saying is, where's the main reason for the population debt increase? No one wants to see the root of this problem. And it is that the constant increase in tariffs causes the problem that the bulk of the population, at least the population doesn't just want to pay the tariffs, the volumes that are there. And it is produced by an organization that tries to put all the problems of its organization on the shoulders of the consumer of services, on the shoulders of the population. Despite their imperfections, their failures and so forth, and so forth. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine thinks it's the wrong way, well, at least it's not the main one, because it has to solve this problem. So we think that we have to solve the problem, starting with increased population capacity, and then budgetary organizations, and everything else. And it's only then that we keep order in the entire farm. I'm leading this to a faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u214	Yes, Hasuk, please, two minutes. Hashuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u215	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The bill provides for a clarification of the principles of public policy in the field of heating regarding the ban on heating facilities from gas supply systems. Thus, there will be a limitation on the supply of gas to the underpaid person, not less than the technological minimum of natural gas consumption. The technological minimum will be determined by the methodology approved by the joint decision of the central executive authorities to ensure the implementation of state policies in the area of housing and utilities and energy by gas-sustaining organizations. Gas-efficient organizations are given the right to exercise the restrictions imposed. The bill is a compromise between the requirements of the Heat Act and the natural gas market. In the second reading procedure, it would be appropriate to clarify the methodology to be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Reforms for the Future Group supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u216	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Heat Supply Act. [[on the use of a technological minimum of natural gas]] [[Registration number 9374]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:36:40]] For 242 Adopted in the first reading. The factions. Region Party – 191, Fatherland – 0, Our Ukraine – 4, Communists did not vote, Reforms – 19, People's Party – 20, Postfaction – 8. And one more question. Draft Act amending the Code of Taxation for the Review of Fees of Certain Taxes and Congregations. [[Registration number 9356]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:37:28]] For 225 225 supported this proposal. Reports Karakai Yuri Vasilovich. According to Andrew Pinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u217	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we often hear that we have bad legislation. I think it's not much worse or better than the legislation of other countries. The problem is that it's done by a hundred percent. What is the purpose of this law? The purpose of this law is to ensure that the Supreme Council implements its decision, namely the decision by which it approved the Tax Code on the annual indexation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of individual taxes and assemblies, which are determined in absolute terms by taking into account consumer price indices and prices of industrial producers. The corresponding figures are confirmed by Kabmin by his own decisions, and for the moment he has defined such indicators. So this bill, prepared by me and the King's deputy, to settle this issue, what the Supreme Council should do in accordance with the Tax Code. According to the government, he will bring an additional 3 billion dollars into the budget, which can, of course, be directed towards social expenditure from the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u218	The committee reports to Pinchuk Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u219	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The committee at its meeting considered the draft bill and decided to support the revised bill. The bill provides for the indexation of ten national taxes and the absolute values of congregations. The committee supported the bill, taking into account all the proposals and there were no special comments. I wanted to say that according to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, the introduction of the bill would provide 3.2 billion dollars of additional revenue. Please support the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u220	Please sign up. Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u221	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! There's not much to talk about. Indeed, the reasons for adopting the bill are perfectly logical. The increase that goes throughout the nomenclature is, in principle, absolutely adequate. Therefore, our parliamentary group can support the vote in favour of the bill. It only happens. Well, plus, it's good that they agreed on two bills, because the previous one in the first version, especially in the Bill of the Queen, there were some things that caused us some doubts. Now these problems have been removed. There's one problem, but I think it's actually de facto consistent, plus it doesn't have very large warnings other than legal, practical ones. This is the issue of the introduction of the law, as of January 1, 2012. The budget code is in contradiction, but, in fact, the circumstances that are to be set up are already there, it's paragraph 1, it's the need for indexation, and paragraph 2. There have been circumstances that do not allow us to clearly define the budget parameters for today. There is no major problem: the price of gas is the base value. Since it does not have a complete budget balance, it does not break the whole picture of the State Budget Act itself before making changes that are in principle contrary to the Budget Code. In fact, it is worth voting for. The only thing that is a procedural request to the regulatory committee is that it take and discuss how to bring the matter into line with the budget code. Thank you for your attention. We'll back it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u222	Thank you. Yuri Carmine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u223	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Chairman, distinguished Ukrainian people! You've just been given green light to switch off, limit the power supply, switch off during the heating period. Now another attempt is happening, it's like they're looking for budgets. The budget has to be looked for, the cost is now in "Livewell" -- that's more than it is. You did not even vote to continue to investigate those circumstances. We didn't even understand and we didn't kick anyone out of the job who let us do it. And now you're proposing to increase the excise tax rates on the first registration of the transport vehicle, the environmental tax raises, the price of using the nadra, the radio station, etc., and so on, for the water of use, it's automatically on the consumer. That's the first one. The other one. Procedural. Can you or can't you? You cannot do that, for Article 4 of the Tax Code states that tax law should be stable. Good stability: A month and a half before the New Year, you are making such changes. And you can make these changes by law until June 1st, and the subject has to be the Cabinet of Ministers, which has to justify everything and so forth. I realize that the aggressive majority of the Party of Regions can afford anything, not the subject, not the one, nothing, you can do anything. You propose that this law take effect as of January 1, 2012. I don't think it's going to work, again, from the point of view of the law, it's only possible from 1 January 2013, you can't change taxes on the move. Thus, the law is absolutely aimed at further impoverishment of the Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u224	No, no, no, go home early. No objections? I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to review the rates of certain taxes and congregations. [[Registration number 9356]] [[13:44:35]] For 243 Thank you. Copy that. And, dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we have two weeks ahead of us, we need to adopt one law that relates to the State Register of Voters. The essence of the legislative initiative is that we've entrusted the CEC with doing this, but there's no legal basis for that. So, with your permission, I'm filing bill number 9410, draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the powers of the Central Electoral Commission. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[13:45:31]] For 234 Supported. According to the authors, a colleague of Zabarski, from the committee, Demčishen. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, this bill aims to specify the powers of the Central Electoral Commission as the registry manager, the National Electoral Register, within the framework of its organizational and technological functioning. The point of the proposal is that legislation is being clarified, allowing the Central Electoral Commission to arrange for the financing of all measures now related to the activity of the National Electoral Register, which is essential for us to conduct fair, transparent elections; not to lose any vote; the State Register to function. That's why this proposal is made to clarify the mandate of the Central Election Commission and the warden. Please accept this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u226	Please, Demchissen from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u227	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues! The substance of the bill was already reported by the author. The committee supported him on this issue because, indeed, there is an urgent need to resolve the situation that has just been discussed. The committee discussed this issue at a meeting on Wednesday and supported the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u228	Thank you. Who wants to share in the discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Now Yuri Anatoliyovich will speak. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u229	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I'd like you to listen, not to Karmazin, but to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. They say that they can be accepted as a basis, but they make many comments. This suggests that it should not be accepted as a whole. That's the first one. And the second. Putting it on Friday at a time when the "Variance" bill, on which just yesterday's findings, which is only a few days in the Supreme Council, you know, it's completely unserious. It's not serious. I'm not the first day in the Supreme Council, but such things are not assumed from the point of view of professionalism at all. As a result, you have enough credit cards, your legs are still running, one in five, seven in seven, and you will take the first reading. But I firmly deny acceptance in the second reading. Because it's about ordering, buying goods and services for the operation of the telecommunication information system. Once again, it's cost, and once it's cost, it's not going through much of an expertise. This expertise is called "anti-corruption," according to the law we passed with you. We didn't do this, we didn't hear what the government thinks, we didn't hear what the Committee on Budgets think. As a result, Your Honor, let us do things legally. You have cards, I repeat, not votes, you have seats, you can accept them, but against acceptance in two readings I deny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-18-m0.u230	If I did, I wouldn't if I did. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, Your Honor, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of draft Law 9410 amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the powers of the Central Electoral Commission. Please vote. [[13:50:00]] For 264 And it's the second sentence to vote, to shorten the deadline for preparation to seven days until the second reading, please vote. With us adopting it as a law on the first Tuesday when the session begins. Please vote in favour of shortening the deadline. We're right, Yuri Anatolyovich, are we? [[13:50:30.]] For 265 Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have not only fulfilled what we have planned for today but also overcame what we have planned for today. I thank you for your patience, support and good work during this week. You and I have done quite a lot of good things with regard to the legislative provisions of our nation's life. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. And then we work with you both in the constituencies and in the committees. And the next plenary session will be held in December. See you later! And in December, it's going to be "Crazy."
