ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:37]] There were 422 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on February 17, 2011. Thirty-eight issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 7 laws and 5 decrees were passed, 8 bills were adopted on the basis of which 1 bill was returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, 4 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals, 2 laws have been passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 1 law is aimed at furthering the committee, 3 laws have been rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, are held on Friday from 10 to 11 p.m. Representatives of the deputy factions made an offer during hours of questioning to the government to hear information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding Ukrainian-Russian relations. Deputy factions of the Party of the Regions, "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherland", the block "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense", the Communist Party of Ukraine based on part six of article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, informed the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in advance of the questions that will be asked during the hour of questions to the Government. Dear colleagues, answering questions from Ukrainian national deputies today will be the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Constantine Ivanovich Grishchenko. Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov participates in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The present members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, who are currently in Kiev, are not on mission. Dear National Deputies! The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine set out such an order for the "hour of questions to the Government". Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are asked about and answered by MPs for up to 30 minutes. It takes up to 30 minutes to question the members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, I mean first the written version, then directly in the communication process. It's suggested to form a question within 1 minute, answer a question within 2 minutes. Is there no objection? And honourable colleagues, there is an offer or appeal to the Supreme Council, or a request, as you may consider, the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine. Since he has an international meeting at 11 p.m., we are asked to complete the question to the minister by 10.50. And if there are questions to the cabinet members, within 10 minutes it may also be possible to ask them. Is there no objection? Thank you for your support. Dear colleagues, we have been able to follow the rules here, and we have taken into account the criticism and observations of the MPs. I invite you to the rostrum of Ukrainian Foreign Minister Konstantin Ivanovich Grishchenk. Constantine Ivanovich, let us do this: written questions in turn from the faction of the regions, “The Fatherland”, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”, the Communists, so we will answer them in turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In general, I received 20 questions from four MP factions. The MP's faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 11 questions, the faction of the Party of Regions – 6 questions, the faction "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko - 2 questions and the faction of the Communist Party – one question. Since most of the questions are resonating or are related to one topic, I will group them together in my answers for the purpose of saving time if you have no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u3	Yes, no objection, dear colleagues? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u4	I want to start with a humanitarian issue. Questions about the Library of Ukrainian Literature in Moscow They apply to the following. What measures are being taken by the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to restore the normal functioning of the Ukrainian Library in Moscow? Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine consider holding consultations with the Russian side on the possibility of financial support from the State budget of Ukraine for the activities of the Ukrainian Literature Library in Moscow, taking into account the unsatisfying situation of its funds? It was from Our National Self-Defense. Questions from the faction of the Party of Regions. What mode does the Library of Ukrainian Literature in Moscow operate today? Questions from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko – Fatherland. What steps have been taken by the government to protect the Library of Ukrainian Literature in Moscow? I'd like to give you the next answer. The Library of Ukrainian Literature in Moscow operates in its own state. Visitors come, books are published. Almost every day, according to the approved monthly plan, various thematic activities, book exhibitions, are being conducted in the library. On January 22, a solemn event was held in the library building on the occasion of the Day of Distress, with the participation of Ambassador of Ukraine and representatives of the community. As soon as the investigation was carried out, on December 21, 2010, the Ambassador of Ukraine in Russia met with the administration of the President of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, the Government of Moscow and other Russian state institutions. During all my meetings with Russian counterpart, Minister Lavrov, the last of which took place in Munich on February 5, this year, the issue of securing the needs of the Ukrainian community in Russia, protecting their rights, was a priority. The Russian side was assured that it was appropriate to ensure the proper functioning of the library. On January 24, 2011, she met with the head of the government of Moscow, Sabianinin. On January 25, there was a joint visit to the Library by the Ambassador of Ukraine to the Russian Federation, the Stat Secretary, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Russia Karasinim, and the Deputy Mayor of Moscow for Social Policy of Sweden, during which a book from the President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, was handed over to the institution. On that same day, the library had returned reading forms that had previously been removed by the law enforcement authorities of the Russian Federation. Today the situation is generally settled. In general, the library funds account for 40,000 volumes, one of the largest libraries that serve the needs of national communities in Moscow. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this facility is all 100 percent the Russian Federation's facility and it's in municipal order and it's actively funded by the Moscow government. Therefore, there is simply no possibility of financing this action from the State budget. Today, the library has over 25,000 copies of books, 15,000 periodicals, including maps, notes, art editions, audio and video recordings, and manuscripts. At the same time, we are working to expand the potential of the Ukrainian cultural centre, which is in Arbat, where the library works, and so in Moscow, there will be two libraries that serve our community and all those who are interested in Ukrainian culture and art. The next group of issues concerns the situation surrounding the unification of Ukrainians at the federal level in Russia. The following questions were asked. From the faction of the Party of the Regions: "What is the situation today around the unification of Ukrainians of the federal level in Russia?" From the deputy faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense": "Have Ukraine's Ministry of Foreign Affairs taken measures to halt the process of eliminating the federal national cultural autonomy of Ukrainians in Russia? Have notes been sent, or have consultations been held, meetings with the Russian side on this subject? Is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs planning to provide legal aid to the unification of Ukrainians in Russia in the process of liquidation of this organization?" This is number 3. Question number four. “Do you believe that the liquidation of the Organization of Ethnic Ukrainians in the territory of the Russian Federation and the events surrounding the only one within the territory of the Russian Federation of the Library of Ukrainian Literature run counter to the provisions of article 12 of the Treaty on Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation? Should it not be possible to carry out a detailed verification of Ukraine's compliance with legislation by the civil organizations of ethnic Christians established in Ukraine?" Another question from the same faction: “The Russian Federation is currently setting up a new General Russian civil society organization in Russia. What part does the Ministry of Internal Affairs play in setting up such an organization? What part do the official representatives of the official Russian authorities play in setting up this organization? How controlled will this organization be from the Kremlin?" And the question from the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko: "Is there a program of action for the preservation and development of Ukrainian social associations within the Russian Federation?" I'd like to give you the next answer. During 2009, the judicial authorities of the Russian Federation carried out a planned examination of a number of cultural and social organizations in Russia, including not only Ukrainian organizations in the Russian Federation. Federal national and cultural autonomys of Armenians and Jews, Russian social organizations: Union of Tajiks of Russia, Russian Azerbaijani Congress, Russian Jewish Congress, Federation of Jewish Communities of Russia. According to the survey, a decision was taken to eliminate the Federal National Cultural Autonomy of Ukrainians in Russia and the Union of Tajiks in Russia. The warning of the organs of justice was given to the Russian Jewish Congress, which corrected its shortcomings and continued its activities. There has also been a review of the activities of a number of Ukrainian national and cultural autonomys in Russia. In all, there are more than 130 of them in Russia, which continue to function as well as the unification of the Ukrainians. As for the latter, unfortunately certain claims of Russian justice have legal grounds. In particular, the organization did not hold annual meetings. And there are no more than half of the Russian Federation’s entities that give him legitimate grounds to be considered a federal public organization under Russian law. The issue of the activities of the Ukrainian community in Russia has been repeatedly discussed with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Russia, Lavrov, in the political consultations of the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Karasin, the Ambassador of Ukraine to the Russian Federation, with the representatives of the competent authorities of the Russian Federation. As a result of the work done, we have an intermediate result. The Supreme Court of the Russian Federation has satisfied the concern of the Organization of Ukrainians of Russia regarding the suspension of the case concerning the closure of the organization. On my February 5th mission to Moscow, the Embassy of Ukraine in Russia met with over 70 Ukrainian civil society activists from nearly all regions of the Russian Federation. In order to participate in this meeting, the director of the Department of Foreign Relations was also assigned. A decision has been taken by representatives of the Ukrainian community to create a coordination council that will start preparing for the creation of a new Ukrainian organization with the status of the whole of Russia. The public believes that such an organization should focus primarily on providing cultural education and information needs for the community. In the opinion of the community, which we clearly support, we must do everything we can to preserve the O.U. However, if this fails, the organization of the Organization of Ukrainians in Russia can be used as a basis for the creation of a new authority. The representatives of regional Ukrainian organizations in Russia realize that only if an all-Russian organization exists will they be able to successfully address the issues of providing their own cultural and educational needs. For more active work, it is planned to create a secretariat of organizations. I had been commissioned to continue negotiations with the Russian side with a view to providing the latest contribution to the activities of the Ukrainian organizations in Russia. I am convinced that the excessive politicization of these issues, and in this context the initiation of some verification of compliance with Ukrainian legislation by the civil organizations of ethnic Russians established in Ukraine, will not help to solve the problems of Ukrainian communities and satisfy their needs in the Russian Federation. I would like to point out that in the last year as a whole, a large number of organizations that have previously reduced their activities or left the task of liaising with Ukraine have returned to these functions. And today, in particular, the lands that exist in Moscow are very actively involved in the work of creating a new organization. The following questions. The "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction. What are Ukraine’s programmes of humanitarian policy abroad today, especially in Russia, and what steps are they taking? From the same faction. Russia actively expands its support for Russian - speaking organizations abroad, particularly in Ukraine. What steps does Ukraine take to support Ukrainian language and Ukrainian - language organizations abroad, particularly in the Russian Federation? I'd like to give you the next answer. During 2006-2010, Ukraine's foreign and Russian communities received financial support from the state in the implementation of the State's programme of cooperation with foreign Ukrainians and also within the Ministry's budget programme, measures to support ties with Ukrainians living outside Ukraine. This assistance includes financing cultural arrangements for outstanding Ukrainian cultural figures, art festivals, computer purchases, and office equipment for Ukrainian Sunday schools and libraries created by Ukrainian civil society organizations in Russia, and so on. The Ukrainian National Cultural Centre in Moscow, the Ukrainian Cultural Centre in Surgut, the Center for Ukrainian Culture in the Lazarev region of Sochi, is responsible for providing cultural needs for the Ukrainian diaspora in Russia. Most Ukrainian national and cultural societies have amateur cultural and artistic centers, folklore groups. The Ministry, along with other central executive bodies, is currently working on the preparation of a new government cooperation programme with foreign Ukrainians until 2015. When it is processed, priority attention will be given to providing for the needs of the Ukrainian community in Russia. The next question is from the MP's faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Please describe the number of real Ukrainian schools, societies and Ukrainian periodicals in Russia, radio stations and TV channels? What support is provided from the State Budget of Ukraine? I'd like to give you the next answer. In Russia there are more than 130 Ukrainian public organizations, companies in almost all Russian Federation entities, 15 Saturday and Sunday schools, published by 8 media outlets, 5 libraries, 3 museums, non-governmental institutions in Surgut, Tolyat and Samari, 3 amateur theatres: Prolisok, Light, Enej. [[Dark]] [[Omsk]] [[Moscow]] The radio in Orenburg every month features the Ukrainian newscast Kobzar. I'm actually going. So some Ukrainian organizations have registered their own periodicals that come out at different intervals. This is the newspaper The Journal of the Ukrainian Society of Cubans; The Orenburg well, of course; The Dumka newspaper in Toliat; The Fatherland, the autonomy of the Ukrainians of Kamchatka. [[Krasnodar National Social Organization National Cultural Centre Cuban Society]] And a whole bunch of others. In most of Ukraine’s border regions, RF* is adopted by channels of Ukrainian television. Regarding support from the state budget of Ukraine, I spoke in answer to a previous question. Questions about providing for the religious needs of the Ukrainian-national minority in the Russian Federation are questions from the deputy faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense", what measures are being taken by the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide for the religious needs of the Ukrainian national minority in the Russian Federation? Are steps being taken to provide religious communities of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate and the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church with facilities for worship and religious rites? Are the Ministry of Foreign Affairs considering the possibility of having an interfaith chapel in the National Cultural Center? Clearly, both in Ukraine and in Russia, the church is separate from the state. But I would just like to provide information on the situation that we have with the satisfaction of the needs of the Ukrainian national minority in the Russian Federation and their religious needs. Well, first of all, most of the Ukrainians who live in the Russian Federation are Orthodox believers and, of course, they go to the churches that are nearby. In the context of the Russian Orthodox Church, I would also like to emphasize this, there are many foreigners from Ukraine who have not forgotten their natives, and that is why this allows our fellow countrymen to join the church. In Naginsk, Moscow, there is a religious community of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate. In addition, there are 18 Ukrainian Greek-Catholic communities in the territory of the Russian Federation. With regard to the idea of furnishing an interfaith chapel in the Ukrainian National Cultural Center in Moscow, the complex legal context of the matter should be taken into account. On the one hand, the center is an institution of Ukraine, on the other hand it has the status of a Russian legal person. So this question needs further processing and we're going to do it. The next group of questions concerns economic issues. Question from the faction of the Party of the Regions: "Have you managed to overcome the decline in Ukraine's mutual trade with the Russian Federation and reach a cross-cutting level by signature? 2010? “ The answer. Thanks to the establishment of an intensive political dialogue, favourable conditions have been created between Ukraine and Russia to achieve a breakthrough in bilateral trade and economic cooperation. The most powerful evidence of this is the significant increase in trade in 2010. The volume of trade in goods and services increased by $15.3 billion, or 1.6 times, to almost $41.5 billion. Compared to the 2008 crisis rate, which was then a record $39.9 billion, the volume of mutual trade in 2010 exceeded it by 3.8 percent. In order to further increase the volume of mutual trade, measures are being taken to expand the geography of our supplies to more remote regions of the Russian Federation. Diversification of the nomenclature of goods moving on the Russian market. Increase in Ukrainian exports in parts of products with high added value. It's enough to say that if there is an energy share of 66.7 percent in the structure of Russian supplies to Ukraine, there is a major article in our supply of machinery that accounts for more than 37 percent of the total amount of Ukrainian exports to Russia. Work is also being done on further intensification of cooperative and investment ties. The deepening of intersectoral cooperation, the implementation of joint industrial and infrastructure projects in nuclear energy, aviation, shipbuilding, missile space, transport and agricultural engineering and other breakthroughs. All of this together gives us reason to believe that in 2011, we will be able to make a 50 billion dollar trade for the first time. Next question from the faction of the Party of Regions. "What measures are being taken to improve the trade regime in Ukraine's relations with the Russian Federation?" The answer. One of the main tasks in relations with Russia in the economic sphere is, of course, the work involved in improving the trade regime. Our countries now have a free trade regime from which only sugar was left for the period until January 1, 2013. In addition, a series of tariff and nontariff restrictions are applied. Work on removing them has been carried out consistently in the framework of a road map for the settlement of trade relations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation signed by the parties on 9 April 2010. If the volume of Ukrainian products to which restrictive measures in the Russian Federation were applied in early 2010 amounted to about a billion dollars, measures for Ukrainian products amounting to more than $300 million and conditions of access for goods amounting to over 360 million were abolished during the year. In particular, the quota for supplies of Ukrainian cold-rolled rent and fittings to Russia has been cancelled, and certain types of Ukrainian pipes have been liberalized. In addition, a corresponding protocol on duty-free deliveries of Ukrainian pipe products to Russia’s customs territory in 2011 has been drawn up in an amount of 300,000 tons. At the same time, the trade between Ukraine and Russia is now subject to safeguards for imports of 6 Ukrainian goods and 7 Russian goods. The negotiating delegation of Ukraine is conducting a permanent dialogue with Russian partners with the aim of cancelling or liberalizing restrictive measures taking into account Ukraine’s economic interests in general and the interests of domestic producers working in the Russian market. Next question from the MP's faction, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Isn't Ukrainian-Russian economic friendship too one-sided? If in 2009 Ukraine had a negative trade surplus of $5 billion with Russia, 2010 statistics were even worse for Ukraine -- 7 billion. And so the question goes. Taking the time into account, let me get right to the answer. If the negative balance of trade in goods and services between Ukraine and Russia amounted to about $4.5 billion in 2010 and the negative balance of trade alone amounted to a little over $8.7 billion. This negative balance was largely created by an increase in the value of energy carriers purchased by Ukraine in the Russian Federation. As evidenced by the analysis, the use by the Russian side of removals and restrictions on Ukrainian goods in the form of customs and quotas at their size in valuable terms does not significantly affect the size of the negative balance of mutual trade. In most commodity positions, Ukrainian exports take precedence over imports from Russia. In particular, machine building is more than double; metalworking is 1.7; food is more than triple; wood, paper, and cellulose are 1.7 times. We are making every effort to prevent the spread of restrictive measures that Russia is taking on our trade with other member countries of the Customs Union that are now being created. Next question from the MP’s faction “Our Ukraine — People’s Self-Defense”. Please provide information on the status of Ukraine's negotiations on Ukraine's participation in the Russian-Bilarus-Kazakhstan Customs Union. We are watching closely the formation and development of the Customs Union of these three countries and we are advocating the development of equal cooperation with this integration entity. In view of the entry into force of the Customs Code on 1 July 2010, the Customs Union member states are conducting a harmonization of customs legislation, including in the form of a consolidated list of exemptions from the free trade regime with Ukraine. That's why we're very clearly negotiating with a view to minimizing the use of protective equipment by one country throughout the customs territory. Next group of questions. Question from the faction. A border issue. Negotiations with the Russian Federation on the separation of the Azov and Black Seas and the Kerchny Strait have been ongoing for 15 years. What are the prospects for the conclusion of these negotiations? This question is one of the priorities. Negotiations have been ongoing since 1996. The status of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait is defined by the Interstate Treaty on Cooperation in the Use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait, which took effect in April 2004. The Treaty establishes that the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait are historically internal waters of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. In doing so, Ukraine and Russia committed themselves to dividing the Azov Sea by a State border line and to settling, under agreement between the parties, matters belonging to the Kerchny Strait. These negotiations are ongoing. We conclude that in the interests of both sides, we have a clear understanding of where the sphere of application of Ukrainian and Russian law ends. We have progress in these negotiations, but they are not yet completed, so I will be ready to report, once the negotiations are concluded, on their outcome. That's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u5	Constantine Ivanovich, maybe now that you have 20 minutes left, let's move on to the questions directly from the MPs. No objections? I ask you, Your Honor, to prepare now to record a question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Yes, there's a recording, please. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yuri Odarchenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u6	I give the word to Stepan Kurpill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u7	Stepan Kurpil, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u8	Now that we're sleeping with you, our northern neighbor hasn't been sleeping for an hour. When you look at the morning program of the First National Channel, it opens up in this way: first it sounds like the Hymn of Ukraine, and that's wonderful, and then two minutes later, the morning prayer sounds like it's also, like, right, but it sounds like something in Russian. I have a question: "Is this some kind of agreement between Ukraine and Russia, is it government policy in a religious sphere, or is it just the stupidity of natives?" One more question. The prime minister of Russia, Putin, has demeaned the role of the Ukrainian people in winning World War II.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u9	Please complete the question. And please, colleagues, bet in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u10	The answer to the MFZ was, as to me, you know, less valuable, saying it was a private matter of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u11	Thank you. I see. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u12	I think that the question of religious, as it were, of the right of Ukrainian citizens to turn to the Church of their choice is fully guaranteed by our legislation. As far as TV shows are concerned, I don't think that's entirely my area of competence. I can only say that there are enough programs in Ukrainian and in Ukraine, of course, that there are more such programs in Ukrainian in Russia on television. And the issue of access via television to Ukrainian programs is also the subject of our talks with the Russian Federation. As far as the response to the comment is concerned. Well, we got an explanation from the Russian side, and on several channels, where we were assured that the Head of the Russian Government had absolutely no intention of demeaning Ukraine's role in the liberation of Europe, in the colossal efforts that the Ukrainian people had made to prevent the victory of the Nazis in World War II. We are convinced that the role of Ukraine, the Ukrainian soldiers, is widely known and does not require any further action.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u13	Yes, Eugene Kzarykov, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u14	Please give the floor to my colleague Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u15	Vladimir Leschenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u16	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Montenegro. Dear Constantine Ivanovich! The authorities have increasingly looked to the West in their relations with Russia. Questions. Is there an understanding in the government that we need, first of all, to go to the Customs Union, the only economic space, to much closer ties with the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus and Kazakhstan? And the second is in this connection. As a representative of Montenegro, as a person who was on December 19, 2010, in an election in Belarus, I was outraged by the interview by Ambassador Roman Immortal of Belarus that day. He said: “From the point of view of the Ukrainians, there were no elections in Belarus. I couldn't live under those conditions. I would do anything to overcome this situation, or this state would beat me." So is the ambassador of Ukraine in Belarus, or is he just a citizen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u17	The priorities of Ukraine’s foreign policy are defined in the relevant law that was voted here in the Supreme Council, where these priorities are clearly prescribed. And the priority that we consider today is to negotiate with the European Union on an association agreement that includes, in particular, the establishment of a free trade zone, as we call it, a deeper one, which in itself makes it impossible for Ukraine to actually join the Customs Union. Moreover, it must also be understood that Ukraine is a member of the World Trade Organization. Three other nations are not members of the World Trade Organization, so we have very different conditions for interaction. Along with what I have already said in response to the written questions, we are interested in agreements that will allow us to have as wide a trade-economic relationship as possible with the countries of the Customs Union, and we agree that these conditions will be as favourable as possible. As for the question of our ambassador in Belarus, I can tell you that in Ukraine diplomatic service does not allow, or let's say, the ethics of diplomatic service to make statements on behalf of themselves. This means that if a person goes to the diplomatic service, he must leave his personal views at home. Accordingly, I would like to point out that the issue of our representation in all countries of the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u18	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u19	In accordance with the requirements laid down in the Law on the Service of Diplomacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u20	Alexander Blackwolf, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u21	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in the organization of the discussion. We just started talking about Russia, and it just got cold in the room. It's getting cold, it's getting serious, it's freezing, the bears are running fast. Now, to the Minister's question. Dear Mr. Minister! So tell me, do you consider our relationship with Ukraine and Russia to be equal? Does it not seem to you that your claim that if a person went to public service, diplomatic service, he would have to give up his own views and look at the world with the eyes of Russian diplomacy? What does that mean? And then, I wanted to ask you, Russia's commitment to a television channel, how does a Ukrainian in Russia track this, and about Ukrainian schools, not Sunday schools, but real schools? Because Russia is protecting its interests in Ukraine, and Ukraine is protecting Russia's interests in Ukraine, and it is not protecting Ukraine's interests in Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u22	The cold hasn't come to me yet, has anyone frozen? I don't think there's a temperature in this room in Moscow. I don't think so. And the others. You know, it's a requirement because a diplomat has to perform his duties, it's not us, it's not Russian diplomacy, it's Asia, it's the basis for work on state and more diplomatic services. Therefore, the question is not about who has personal opinions. We respect each individual’s personal views, including that of every civil servant. But in a country, in public service, in diplomatic service, there is also a need for discipline. Without this, it is impossible to implement any state policy and, more so, to be consistent and convincing in politics. So I would just like to say that we are guided by the need to protect the real national interests of our nation, including in protecting the interests of our fellow countrymen abroad. I myself, as long as I was in the position of Ambassador of Ukraine in the Russian Federation, I was working on the opening of the Ukrainian school in Moscow, I am one of the main ones, we went through a number of stages defined by Russian legislation. At the very least, enough is needed for those who want to send their children to school. This question is in our control, we care for it, and we come out of what we're going to find a solution to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u23	Dmitry Schlemko, BUT faction "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u24	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Victor Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u25	Victor Taran, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u26	Mr. Minister, I'm holding the newspaper "Day" in my hands today, and I'm quoting from here. The paper refers to Mr. Zubchenk, a biographer of tobacco, and provides interesting information. The paper states that Tobacco, I quote literally, "In the days of Yushchenka, he celebrated Moscow with the Ambassador of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, Mr. Chernomirdin, although he called the report "a serious study" and so on, the end of the quote. The point is that Tobacco gave its assessment of the work of the Russian diplomatic service and wrote a report on Czernomyrdin. Black Myrdeen, his heavenly kingdom, was a wonderful man, doing much to strengthen the relationship between Ukraine and Russia, the glory of God that he had with us. That's what the relationship between Ukraine and Russia could be when it writes even on Czernomyrdin. And this is the person who is now officially working for the Minister of Education and Science as he responds to your department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u27	Come on. The thing is, I think we're going to work more productively if we don't engage in some sort of discussion, even the most recent publications, where names are mentioned. Because the relationship, if we only take Ukraine's relationship with Russia, is multifaceted and they have a lot of ingredients. We have already gone through some of the issues that concern both politicians and Ukrainian society. But it is also important to remember that this is our greatest neighbor, a country where we have markedly high economic interests, and we are interested in parity in these relations. But more importantly, there is room for their expansion and their enrichment. That's why we do this work in different directions. And what's important about this is that you have created normal assumptions at the political level so that you can work not only for the big Ukrainian and Russian corporations in each other's markets, but also for small and medium-sized businesses to be able to participate actively in this broad work. Our humanitarian connections, involving millions of people. So now we're doing everything we can to make it worse and border control, to move it to develop foreign trade. I hope that at the following hearings, when invited, we will be able to talk about a broader range of foreign policy tasks, since it is not limited to Russia alone. External policy is active in all directions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u28	Thank you. The final question to the Foreign Minister is that we have made such a decision. National Deputy Koshin, Faction BUT - Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u29	Please pass the word to my colleague, School Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u30	Andrew School, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u31	Thank you for the word. Dear Mr. Minister! Well, of course, here we can talk about Ukrainian foreign policy in the incision. Now the main question, I think, is to demonstrate the quality of Ukrainian foreign policy in the protection of citizens who relate their origins to Ukraine. In Russia, 6 million Ukrainians don't have any schools in Russia, you just quoted them, they don't have any periodicals in Ukrainian. They have, what did you say, once a month? I think it would be nice if they had a radio transmission in Ukrainian once a year, so they don't have any protected rights and national needs. Then you said, I quote you that the Russian library had 40,000 crosses, and now it has 20,000 copies of books. Again, priorities and protections. I'd like you to demonstrate what the Ukrainian interest in protection is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u32	So I didn't quite get the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u33	Please clarify, I'm sorry, please make the clarification brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u34	Thank you. What is the protection of Ukrainians and Ukrainians in Russia if they are unable to meet any of their needs: there is no school, there is no church.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u36	So I'd like to emphasize one thing. First of all, if we want to help someone, and we want to and we want to do that, we need to hear what the citizens of the Russian Federation want. How interested they are in organizing themselves and creating their own capabilities, both in the field of newspaper publications and in the field of school organization. All possible help is provided from us. I don't have time to tell you what we're doing here. So giving a concrete boost now that an effective Ukrainian organization in Russia will be created will allow the organization of Russian citizens, Ukrainians, to rise to a very different level, and to impose on the Russian government the requirements that they themselves formulate to provide for their own needs. On our part, all possible and technical assistance will be provided -- one that we provide to Ukrainian community centres in many regions of Russia. Political support will also be provided to ensure that their ability to communicate with the Russian government is greatly expanded and that decisions are made in which the Ukrainian community itself is interested in Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's thank Minister of Foreign Affairs of Constantine Ivanovich Grishchenk. [[Applause]] We agreed, dear colleagues, that the minister will have an international meeting, which we will conclude earlier. Well, we got it. Please, if you have one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, calm down. In accordance with the Rules, during the "hour of questions to the Government" there is the possibility and right to ask questions to the government members present. We've got five minutes left. Please sign in on the question before. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on. Dear colleagues, please sign in. If there is. Well, we signed up for the minister. Please. Dear colleagues, please sign in. Yes, Mikhailo Chechetov. Whom will you ask?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u38	Dear Sergey Leonidovich, we are grateful that such an extensive discussion on pension legislation has been organized and that such a long-term discussion has not been a long time ago. Different views were expressed, different positions. But I would like to hear from you, as you can see from the outset, that a final bill in the Supreme Council will be aimed at a pension law that we will consider, or we will, on first reading, consider the one that was behind this debate in Parliament. How do you see the prospect of this progress and the adoption of this bill further by you?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u39	Thank you. In fact, we have spent hundreds, fashionable to say thousands, meetings, and we have received enough offers. We've been able to review them, prepare them, and some decisions, we think we should review them. And some of the suggestions we consider to be absolutely right. That's what we're talking about first. In fact, we need to be clear about the date of the introduction of the second level of the pension system. And what we can do since 2013 is clearly visible. We can do this. One. The other one. Some positions, I think, could be softened. In those suggestions, let's say we had seniority, it went up by five years, in five years. I think it would be wise for the service of years for the military, for the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to raise and increase this service by 10 years, to raise this service by 6 months each year. The same is true of government officials, raising the age and for the 10 categories that are compared to them, and this is about men. Not in 2013 but from 2013 to 6 months a year, and in 4 years. We also consider it appropriate to leave behind five years that citizens could take up by the year 2000 in order to.. That's all we think, we could bring and perceive. How will this be done? I don't think it's in principle. We could either do it because of our representatives, who are in the Supreme Council, or because of the recall. We haven't considered the procedure yet. The Minister's office doesn't know yet, but what we're going to do systematically, we've already done this as changes to the law, to the bill, we've got them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u40	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u41	Please pass it on to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u42	Andrew Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u43	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland". Mr. Azarov's question. Well, you're one of the parents of the Kharkiv covenants. And we remember the promise that there would be a gas price drop. And now in life, we see that since July 1, last year, 50 percent have been raised, 50 percent again since April 1. And for the population's gas, the price will be doubled. Even though it was promised that after these hark contracts and tariffs on utility services would not rise either. Something's going to go wrong. Someone was lying. And we remember that last year, both Putin and Medvedev promised that Ukrainian television channels would operate in Russia. What does the government do about it? And the Harkow Agreements gave us 40 billion debt for 10 years, which our children will return. And the price rise for the common people, and the raise for the oligarchs, the discount.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u44	Thank you. Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Well, if we're talking about parents, we need to think about moms. It is also important to remember Moms, mothers of the Moscow area, where Ukraine received a sharp increase in gas prices. Remind those who forgot to multiply $450 times the fraction that approaches the unit, Mr. Pavlovsky. So remember, first of all, this deal, which, unfortunately, Ukraine has been working for a third year. And at what price for gas now, if it wasn't for the harrkow deal, it's almost $400. Then how much did the tariffs have to be raised? Thus, the Harkow deal, which provided Ukraine with a break and a $100 reduction in its gas price, fully justified itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u46	Yes, thank you, dear colleagues. The year of questions to the government has been completed. Many questions. I think we'll have the opportunity for next plenary Friday, well, we agreed with you that hour. Dear colleagues. I thank the Cabinet of Ministers in charge of the Prime Minister of Ukraine for having been able to work together today. () [[Applause]] Dear national deputies, according to Friday’s Rules, we have 30 minutes to make a request. Allow me to announce the parliamentary requests that have been made and registered in the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in an orderly manner. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Andrija Shkila to the President of Ukraine on the illegality and unjustification of the transfer of the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska to the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine and the preservation of the existing system of administration. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:01:28]] For 114 Request not supported. Vladimir Pollohall to the President of Ukraine on the need to take measures to ensure the right of residents of Donetsk and Luhansk regions to education. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:01:57]] For 109 Request not supported. Kirila Kulikov to the President of Ukraine on the critical situation in Žukovsky, the island of Žuków, and the Truhan Islands in Kiev. Did I put it right? Beetle Island. Yes, please vote in favour of the request. [[11:02:35]] For-73 Request not supported. The Royal Natalia to the President of Ukraine on strengthening the fight against illegal gambling. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[11:02:59]] For-84 Request not supported. Alexia Baburin to the President of Ukraine on a lengthy review of the appointment of a judge of the Kyiv District Administrative Court and a formal response to a parliamentary appeal. I'm betting on a motion to support the request. [[11:03:31]] For 236 Request supported. I'm voting on a motion to refer a request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:03:52]] For 247 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Dmitry Schlimk and Vasile Wooden to the President of Ukraine on the grave violations of legislation by the law enforcement agencies of Johno-Frankivsky and Zaporozhye areas in the course of the criminal investigation conducted in relation to members of the All-Ukrainian organization Trizub. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:04:29]] For 111 Request not supported. Igor Sharov to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need for a re-examination of the issue of the establishment of an Interstate Regional Organization for the Protection of Trade Marks. Alla Alexandrovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical condition of the State Enterprise "Harkowsk Shipbuilding Plant Taras Shevchenk". Mr. Andrija Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-elimination of the State Institute "Centre for Rehabilitation of Cardiosurgery Patients" of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Andrija Shkila to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegality and unjustification of the transfer of the National Reserve "Sofia Kyivska" to the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine and the preservation of the existing system of administration. Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ensuring that education policies are properly implemented, that laws and regulations of the Constitution are respected in order to prevent the closure of general education schools and cultural institutions, particularly in the Donetsk region. Vasil Kravchuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the non-compliance with article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of Children of War. Vladimir Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the illegal introduction into Kiev of new heat tariffs for the population. Vasila Petyovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has taken place in the state-owned enterprises of the Zacarpathian Agro-industry complex. Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of a targeted state subsidy for repair and rehabilitation work in Suma's elevator industry. Vladimir Danilenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the humiliation of the great history of the Ukrainian people in the area of Freedom in Kharkiv, without a monument Volodymyr Illich Lenin, in the promotion of "Turn on Ukraine", which is broadcast on the leading European television channels in Ukraine's promo-companion to the final part of the 2012 European football championship. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the lack of substantial, precise response to two parliamentary requests for the number of funds spent by the Cabinet of Ministers for the conduct of an audit, such as the abuse of the government of Yulia Timoshenko, employed by foreign companies that are not auditing at all. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the intention of the Government to transmit through the Ministry of Culture the National Reserve "Sofia Kyivska" in the direct use of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, which will cause interfaith tension and cause Ukraine to lose its national history. [[Moscow Patriarchate]] Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to complete the transfer of the National Museum of the Victims of the Occupational Regimes of the London Prison to the Ukrainian Security Service and ensure the proper financing of the museum. Gennady Zadirka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of Mikolaiyev City in resolving the issue of housing for a multi-child family of Chernisov from Mikolayeva, which consists of twelve persons and lives in a one-room apartment with a total housing area of 14 and a half square metres, the smallest member of the Chernisov family six months from the date of birth. Edward Prutnik to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Poltava District Administration, the General Health Administration of the Poltava District Public Administration on the need to take urgent action to open a hemodialysis office in the city of Mirrod Poltava to ensure adequate access to medical services for patients with chronic renal insufficiency for whom the deadline for resolving this issue is vital. Igor Alekseyev to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is Ukraine's Minister of Social Policy for Information and Measures to Provide Vehicles for the People with Disabilities of the Great War, who is in line to obtain a car in turn as a means of prosthetics. Igor Alekseyev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information and the use of response measures to ensure compliance with legislative requirements in the field of solid waste management. Mikoli Derkač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the reconstruction of the Territorial Centre in the village of Vishneve Pokrovsky district of Dnipropetrovsk. Mikoli Shershuna to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the restoration of financing for socio-economic development of the villages of Great Lakes, Great Cheremel, Rizka, the Shah of the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region in accordance with the Ukrainian Law of February 3, 2004. The Royal Natalia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of the violated rights of a foreign investor. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the application of measures to prevent violations of article 14 of the Ukrainian Culture Act, which seeks to ensure the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens. Oleg Zarubinsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures to legalize "shadow wages" as a means of filling the spending portion of the Pension and other social funds. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for removing artificial barriers to accessing municipal subsidies. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for smuggling in December 2010, 40,000 tons of Greek grain from government stocks and interstate purchases from China 20,000 tons of the same product for allegedly stabilizing retail prices in the Ukrainian market. Alexander Crnvolunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Emergency Situations of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, on the efficiency of the use of funds for the evacuation of Ukrainian citizens from the Arab Republic of Egypt from the State budget of Ukraine, as well as on the basis of the amounts allocated and ensuring their return to the State budget of Ukraine as a result of non-use. Alexander Crnvolunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine on systematic violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure and other legislation in the process of voting in the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Ukrainian people's deputies, including in the vote for the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. Alexander Schepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to accelerate the preparation of the state-wide flood programme and allocate funds for its full implementation. Orestes Muz to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the Head of the State Technical Regulatory Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Prosecutor General of the Ternopil Region on the legality of criminal proceedings brought against Eugene Melniczuk, the Head of the State Enterprise Ternopolstandardmeterology, and their extension by the Ternopil Regional Court. Orestes Muz to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Head of the State Technical Regulation Service of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the head of the state-owned enterprise Ternopilstandardmethmethology of Eugene Melniczuk, the non-authorization of the civil order. Paul Mouchcana to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the closure of educational institutions with Ukrainian language in Donetsk. Peter Simonnck to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation and further operation of the State Institute "Centre for Rehabilitation of Cardiosurgery Patients" of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Sergei Gordijenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Executive Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to pay salaries to employees of the State Enterprise Production Union of Poznamja, Poltava. Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unjustified increase in housing and utility tariffs in the Cherkas region. Zinovia Shkutjak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of State Administration, for the creation of the national natural park "Sinogara". Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures aimed at approving the project plan and allocating funding for the construction, in the current year, of the road along the direction of Privozalni - Šapovaluk - Sosnivka in the area from the village of Mali Samobir in the district of Sumska district to the village of Golinka Bachmatic district, ensuring that the bus network is optimized in a given direction with the aim of connecting the population with the district and district centres. [[on the New Year's Eve]] Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures aimed at ensuring environmental security and maintaining environmental balance in the territory of Ivano-Frankov region, addressing the issue of the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the financing of measures for the prevention and elimination of shifts within the administrative and territorial boundaries of the area and compensation for geological damage. Andrija Pavlovski to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the application of torture to members of the All-Ukrainian organization Trizub in Zaporozhye detention centre. Valerija Behwaz to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of Ukrainian Security Service officials in the drafting of protocols on administrative offences for violations of special restrictions provided for by the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act concerning persons of the armed forces of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. Valéria Bevéz to the head of the High Council of Justice on the examination of the violation of the rules of procedural law by the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters by Svetlana Stelik in the civil case, which led to a violation of the constitutional rights and freedoms of one of the defendants. Vassil Krawczuk to the head of the Central Election Commission on the legality of the actions of the Theophilus District Election Commission of the Hmelnick Region. Victor Topolov to Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of labour legislation and illegal dismissal from the position of Director of the State Enterprise, "Central Training Base for Skating Sports "The Ice Stadium" of Tetjana Bagry. Edward Prutnik to the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Chernigiv District Administration on the need to review the appeal of the community of the town of Nizhina Chernigiv district, which is concerned about the preservation of the monuments of architecture of the 11th - 19th century and has been asked to contribute to the renovation of the Church of Salvation, which served on May 17, 1861, over the coffin of Taras Shevchenk, whose burial dates back to 150 years, and the Council of Charity, which is 300 years old in 2016. Eugene Kzarow to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for construction within the sea beaches and for illegal construction of the coast in the city of Odessa and Odessa. Catherine Vaschuk, head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the legality of the distribution of land rations in the villages of Buzaki and Krasnilovka Kamen Kashir district of Volin region and for the elimination of alleged violations and abuses. Catherine Vaschuk to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the urgent need to increase funding for medical facilities to provide emergency medical care. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on an unsatisfactory situation that has resulted in the establishment of schools in the Zitomir Region by buses to pick up students and teachers from remote villages, as part of the implementation of the State's School Bus Programme. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the need to support the development of the State Enterprise "Radivile Combine of Agricultural Products" in the region. Alexander Dove to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the calculation of the pension of the civil servant of the former mayor of the city of Turka Lviv. Alexander Schepeleva to the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the use of care to ensure that children’s health facilities are provided with the necessary vaccine to carry out the vaccination. Roman Zabzaluk to the head of the High Council of Justice regarding the failure to answer by the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, Igor Samsin, to a parliamentary appeal regarding the possible unfair decision by the judge of the Federal District Court of Mikolayev, Sergey Szczerbin. Sergey Tereshuka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the non-implementation of gasification of individual rural areas in the Cherkas region. Yuria Baldiriev to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the materials of the criminal case since 3 January 2001, violated by the Prosecutor's Office of the Provincial Region of Kharkiv. Yuria Baldwineva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the transfer of a criminal case violated by the Prosecutor’s Office of the District Attorney of the city of Kharkiv to another area for an objective investigation. Yuri Crook to head the Ukrainian State Road Service for the repair of transit roads across the city of Reni Odessa. Jury of Lithuania to the head of the State Motorways Service of Ukraine regarding the appeal of the Bobinetsk District State Administration of the Kirovograd Region to the need for capital repair of the township-Novo Ukraine-Bobrinec-Ustivka road area, which has not been repaired for about 30 years. Jury Litvina to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Head of the Kirovograd Regional Public Administration on the question of the reorganization of the Mlink School of Public Education I-III graduated from the I-II level. Groups of National Deputies to the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the referral of patients to the Cardiology Department of the Irpine Sanatorium regarding the inadmissibility of the deployment of a cardiosurgery rehabilitation centre. [[Shishkina, Krajina, and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Attorney General of Ukraine for gross violations of legislation by the law-enforcement authorities of Johno-Frankiv and Zaporozhi areas during the conduct of criminal prosecutions committed against members of the All-Ukrainian organization Trizoub. [[The helmet, Cosmiakina Total 45 deputies]] Eugene Volinz and Eugene Kzarykov, head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, to provide detailed information on the fact and size of the taxes paid when making contracts for the sale of open stock companies TAS-Commertzbank and TAS-Invest Bank. Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of compliance with the laws and regulations of the Constitution of Ukraine and the use of measures by the Attorney General of Ukraine to prevent the closure of public schools in the Donetsk region. Valeria Konovaluka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation in the activities of the State Company Ukrespecexport and the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal regarding the abuse of Volodymyr Boletschuk during his term of office as head of the Ternopil District State Administration. Victor Matchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the commission of crimes provided for in article 382 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the application of measures in accordance with article 94 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the fact that an organized criminal group of fraudulent activities is taking possession of the assets of the Open Shareholders Association of the Nadra Commercial Bank in the interests of the Society with limited liability of the Lviv-Cold Trading Company and its involvement with this Director General of the Society with limited responsibility of the Lviv-Cold Trading Company of Bogdan Kozak. Gennady Zadirka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the falsification of the documents of the land arrangement of the citizen of Natalia Brovchenko and the lack of proper response by the law enforcement authorities. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for not satisfying the reply of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to a collective parliamentary request from 22 December 2010 for failure by the Government of Ukraine to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the Constitution of Ukraine under articles 14, 24, 64, paragraphs 7-13 of Chapter II of the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2010 which was suspended by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[constitutionality]] Eugene Kirilchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a flat letter to the National Deputy of Ukraine as Prosecutor of the Volin Region, Anatoly Gil, on the rightfulness of the raid by the administration of the Volin area of non-State forests. John Hajc to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the destruction of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate of the National Monuments - the building of the Michaelian Church in the town of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki and the liquidation of the Museum of Clothing of Central Transnistria and the threat of liquidation of the Museum of Architecture of Preyaslav in the time of the Kiev Russia, which form part of the National Historical and Ethnographic Reserve of Pereslav. John Stoyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal arrest in Odessa by an activist of the public organization Road Control. Vladimir Karpuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of response measures in order to prevent violations of the housing rights of residents of dormitory numbers 2, 6 and 4a at the People's Party Boulevard in Lutsk Volinsk. Lilia Grigorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the persecution of the political motives of the former head of the Regional Regional Administration of the Montenegrin District of Peter Panchuk. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a review of the appeal of the Biotzerkow Regional Association of Biotzerkows for the solution of property issues. Peter Simonnck to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the legality and use of urgent measures of response. Sergija Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the justification for the closure of a criminal case in the event of the death of a minor resident of a city-type village called Chutov Chutov district of Poltava district of Ivan Lobanov. Sergey Chrapova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the signs of unlawful actions by the Office of the Prosecutor of the Lenin district of Zaporozhye in the person of the junior justice adviser, Denis Puzin, regarding the criminal offence. Spiridona Kilinkarov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the crime of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine Sergey Tihypk, on the smuggling of vehicles into Ukraine in a smuggled way, and on the need to bring him to criminal responsibility. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the appeal of a citizen of Dmitr Yegornka in the case of the Rodood Association of Shareholders. [[Landik, Turmanov, only 12 national deputies]] Eugene Volinz and Eugene Kzarkov to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the possible commission of a crime envisaged in article 212 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, acting Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Sergey Tihypco, in the process of alienating the Open Shareholder Associations of TAS-Comertzbank and TAS-Investment. [[Tax evasion, congregations]] Valentina Matvieva to the head of the Suma District State Administration regarding the inappropriate treatment of the local authorities with regard to the socio-cultural and household needs of residents of the village of Novgorod Trieste district of Suma. Lilia Grigorovich to the head of the Kiev City State Administration on the situation surrounding the foundations of the Decade Church in Kiev and the failure to destroy the historical monument. Thus, respected colleagues, 119 requests were made by Ukrainian national deputies. Including six requests to the President of Ukraine, one request received a positive assessment, i.e. it is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The draft Regulations amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of Heads, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization are being announced. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Makeinko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! At its meeting on 18 February 2011, the Committee discussed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leszczenk Volodymyr Aleksyyyovich, Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the issue of law enforcement, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Simonenk Petr Mikolaiovich. [[for No8107]] At the suggestion of the Communist Party MP, at the time of the establishment of the committees, the Secretary of the Committee for Legislative Protection. The Communist faction, please, is about your colleague. At the time of the establishment of the committees, the Secretary of the Committee on Law Enforcement was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bevenza, who, since February 17, this year, was elected head of the Committee for Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. According to article 83, part seven, of the Supreme Council’s Rules, if the Secretary of the Committee is dismissed from office, the right to apply for that office belongs to the deputy faction whose quota he was elected to the post. Thus, the Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement is the quota of the Communist Party of Ukraine. At the same time, the Committee points out that when it decides on the change in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it adopts an Order amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries and Members of Committees. In this connection, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change the name of the draft decision and to make the following reference: “To amend the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretariat, Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization”. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it support the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the Committee's observations, namely, to change the name of the draft ruling. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings? Then let's, if there is, from factions one minute at a time, please. Ivan Kirilenko. Who else will insist on the faction? Valentin Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u49	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, your honor, the head of the committee! We asked you for a request in connection with our colleague’s presence at the district council’s session, just as his question was being considered, we asked his colleague Berezhkin, his statement, Berezkin, our deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u50	Ivan Grigorovitch, the microphone's not working. Turn on John Kirilenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u51	I'm sorry. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the honourable head of the committee! You and I have agreed that we will review today's committee decision regarding the inclusion of our newly elected Deputy Bereskin in the Tax and Customs Committee. He's at a session of the Kirovograd District Council, where he's looking at exactly where he's reporting. We asked him to consider this fact that he was unable to attend the committee meeting, but there is a statement he made that we should resolve the matter with a single decision. The fractional amount in this committee is not used; there can be two more candidates. We'd like your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear Ivan Grigorovich, we are now considering a draft decree on the election of the Leshchenka People's Deputy Secretary of the Committee on Legislative Security. Then we'll look at another national MP, Netecko. Today, a committee was held to discuss these issues. Indeed, there is a statement by the national MP, Bereskin, that he will be included in the work of the Committee on Tax Policy, but the committee has not considered it. We'll consider it at the next meeting. Yes, we unanimously vote on these issues. I don't think it's that bad. Let's just go through the procedure. Yeah. And I would now like, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to return to the question that we are considering, the election of the People's Deputy Lechchenka as Secretary of the Committee for Legislative Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u53	Valentina Matthew, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u54	Thank you. Honorary colleagues are known, in accordance with the Committee’s Law, the main mandates of the committee secretary are to organize the committee’s work, that is, to ensure that its work is planned, to plan the committee’s work, and so forth, to arrange for the preparation of meetings. I don't know where I'm going with this. Vladimir Alexiyovich Lechchenko has a great, I'm not afraid to say, a great experience of parliamentary activity. He has been a national deputy of Ukraine for two years now, a member of the Montenegrin District Council. Therefore, I think there is no longer need for comments on the level of preparation needed to carry out the duties of the secretary of this committee. Please support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u55	Yes, there are no other reasons? May I have your attention now? Taking into account the specificity of the name of the draft regulation, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputys of the Goal, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatisation issues, in the election of Leszczenk Vladimir Aleksyyyyyyyyovich, National Deputy of Ukraine from the multi-mandate general constituency of the Communist Party of Ukraine as Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legislative security of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8107]] Please vote. [[11:35:07]] For 258. Decision taken. We welcomed our colleague with the fact that he was already employed on the committee. Please, draft regulation 8127.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u56	I haven't read it yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u57	Honorary colleagues, and already the chairman of the committee, reported on the draft decision of the next 8127, namely: the election of the German Helena Anatoliyovna, the Ukrainian National Deputy from the multi-mandatory national constituency, the faction of the Party of Regions, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Federation issues. This is draft regulation 8127. If there's no objection, I'll put it to the vote. Please vote. Please withdraw the vote. Please, Anatoly Matvienko, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u58	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you. I don't know what we're talking about right now. As far as I'm concerned, I'm looking at Mrs. Helen's statement. In one place she writes that she is a Netzka Helena, and in the other place she says that she is a Nitick Helen, with her own hand. I don't understand, what kind of name do we vote on, and can we refer to the relevant documents with respect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u59	Yeah. The question is very important. I think we're going to clarify it here. It's just, if you take a personal statement, there was a pen that wide, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u60	Anatoly Sergiyovich, is a statement written by the hand of Necsky Helen Anatolyevna. I, the Netzka Olena Anatoliyevna, would like to be elected a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. It says, “Necka, the soft sign is simple. ” [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the German Olena Anatoliyevna is present. I'm putting to the vote a draft order. Please vote. Anatoly Alexanderovich, come and meet me, please. [[11:37:42]] For the 250. Let's welcome our colleague to join the committee. [[Applause]] Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, microphone. For a successful vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Respectable colleagues! Once again, the question raised is that if we speak two languages in Russian and Ukrainian, we will cut off all these empty questions, it will be clear and clear to all. The issue therefore reiterated the relevance of placing the Russian language on the agenda as a second State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! We worked so hard, let's work as far as I know. Stojko, not the faction, not the faction. Ivan Stojko, please microphone, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u64	Thank you. Mikhail Vasilovich always says very interesting things, but here, God really comes to know what. If the person who goes to Parliament does not know the national language, what will he do here? But if you're proposing a second state, then I don't know what they're going to be on, or in Chinese, or Moldovan, or in which to write here? And we're going to leave at all, and I don't know where. So let's not speculate here, it really was not a question of ridicule, it was a question that raised a question for this MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u65	Please, Kirilenko. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u66	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The word is to pass it on to Andrew Kožemiakin, a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u67	Andrew Kozemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u68	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Our faction has just received information that the Ukrainian Security Service is preparing a provocation to the Party Office of the Political Party of Fatherland. And now the Alpha special unit, along with investigators and security officers, is on its way to Turivsky to storm him. In this regard, our faction leaves the hall and we all go to the office on the street of Turovsky, 13 to find out the situation and protect our office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u69	Thank you. I take information for granted. Now I'm going to ask you to make an official request on this point, because this is about the great political faction that is represented in Parliament. I ask Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk to clarify this situation. Dear colleagues, let us now continue to work on the issues that are set out in the schedule for today. Dear colleagues, now in this regard, the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will find out the real state of affairs in the Ukrainian Security Service. And on the other hand, I think our national MPs have demonstrated competition, you understand why. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. [[on pension insurance]] [[Registration number 4321]] At the same time, the authors of the Shentz and Dutch bill addressed a letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, specifically to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which read: “In connection with the need to amend the law, we withdraw the bill.” So I'm going to put a motion to the vote, please support, Your Honor, to call off the draft law on the initiative of the Ukrainian people's deputies. [[Registration number 4321]] Please vote. [[11:42:23]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now considering the draft Act amending articles 78 and 79 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the release from trial]] [[Registration number 6232]] The reporter is Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, both from the committee and as the author. Begging, Vladimir Romanovich, is it short? The proposal is to consider this issue by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:43:12]] For-195 Thank you for the initiative. Volodymyr Romanovich, please have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u70	Okay. Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm ready to report the law, but there aren't many colleagues in the room right now. What do you say, Vladimir Mikhailovich? Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that there is no half-breed of deputies, or we will lose the law. Nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u71	We're on the move. There's nothing we can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, it is discussed in the bill that when a person is convicted of a crime and is subject to punishment, the deprivation of liberty is conditional on a probation period, and during this interrogation period he commits a new crime. This is also the case law of the Union of Soviet Republics and already Ukrainian court practice shows that the courts treat this rule differently, regardless of the clarification of the Plenary of the Supreme Court and of the Union and Ukraine. And in some cases they do not assign a trial term to a new crime, and in other cases they are appointed. So the point of the law is that according to the rules governing the imposition of penalties, according to the basics of a person who commits a crime during an interrogation period, he should no longer receive a probationary term but should be deprived of a new crime and a previous one of his own free will. There are different aspects to this law. Minust supports, the Attorney General's Office supports, the Chief Legal Authority, the scientific expert says that there is a problem, but they see it not in the law, but in that the courts interpret the law in different ways. So in order not to be interpreted, I considered it necessary to establish a clear legislative rule: “A person convicted of a crime committed during a trial period is condemned to be deprived of the will for a total of sentences and is no longer subject to a trial term.” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u73	Thank you. The offer is understood. Dear colleagues who insist on discussing this matter, please sign up. We have three more bills to consider, and we can do so. To consider them, to move immediately to the “Victory” and when the hour of the performances is up, to close the cancer session of the Supreme Council. Names of the national MPs, please. A strange faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Basil Wonder, faction of the Party of the Regions. Concerns about the subject of the legislative initiative’s right to take decisions by the courts, in some cases the re-release of a convicted person who committed a crime during the trial period, is understandable. At the same time, it is worth noting that the reinstatement from the trial of those who committed crimes during the trial period has already been banned by a valid criminal law. This understanding of the content of the law in force is reflected in the Ukrainian Supreme Court Order No. 11 of 6 November 2009 on the addition to the Ukrainian Supreme Court Order of 24 October 2003 No. 7 on the Practice of Appointing Criminal Punishment Courts, which states that, on the basis of the second section of article 75 of the Criminal Code, which provides that the court may, on the basis of the grounds laid down by law, decide to release the convicted person from trial if he does not commit a new crime during the trial period and will carry out his duties. As well as the content of part three of article 78 of the Criminal Code, in the case of a person during a trial period of a new crime, the courts should view this as a violation of the terms of application of article 75 of the Criminal Code on the release of punishment from trial and the imposition of penalties on a group of sentences on the basis of article 71 of the Criminal Code. In such cases, the reinstatement of punishment with trial is unacceptable. It shows that the problem of reapplication of punishment with a trial involving a person who committed a new crime during the trial period is the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u75	Oleg Zarubinski, please
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u76	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. Dear colleagues, there are three articles in the Criminal Code -- 75, 79 and 104, which are directed in their group -- in any case, the legislator predicted, to ensure that the convicted person is corrected without punishment. But there's a very important point here, and this is what a profile committee representative said, that it's actually a trial term or, as they call it, a test term. And a paradoxical and wrong situation when a person violates the law during his probationary term. And rightly, the subject of the legislative initiative emphasizes that there are many cases, enough cases where the court and the judges treat the law, let’s say, arbitrarily, once again freeing a person from punishment for the same crime when he has not passed the test, is not tested. And that's why I think it's a reference to the fact that it's only a judge's fault and that if they worked properly, it would be okay -- not exactly. And if there's a certain colossal, if there's a certain colossal, if there's a certain crevice in legislation, then our job is not to have this crevice. Therefore, it is appropriate to support the subject of the legislative initiative. First of all, support the welfare and tranquillity of our citizens who are victims of criminals who have not passed the test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u77	Yes, dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? None. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office expressed doubts about this. At the same time, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law, registration number 6232, amending articles 78 and 79 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the release from trial]] Please vote. Please vote. [[11:50:41]] For-46 The decision is not taken. I'm going to put a second motion for a return to read again. Let's do it this way. How much? 46. Let us put to the vote a return of the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. [[11:51:13]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the minimum pension size by age]] [[Registration number 1024]] What? Why should we? That's what we agreed to. Shall we finish earlier? Peter Stepanovich, can we., what's the offer? Short cut, huh? Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u78	Sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u79	Sure. I'm voting on a motion from the author to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:52:02]] For 215 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Cibenko, Petr Stepanović. The Coroner is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Kulczynski Mikola Georgievicz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! During this week, the subject of pension insurance received, as it were, a new endorsement and a new sound. Including yesterday, at this week's parliamentary hearings devoted to pension reform, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine Sergey Leonidovich Tihypco, on behalf of the de facto government, admitted that the level of pension insurance in Ukraine is extremely low. Two thirds of Ukrainian citizens were said to receive pensions up to a thousand dollars and less. Of course, even after all the reforms, taking into account all the supplements that are in Ukraine's legislation, the level of pensions in Ukraine cannot be called civilised or equivalent to that of every Ukrainian citizen. Because a large number of Ukrainian citizens are in employment for 35, 40 and even 50 years, and yet the level is what it is. When the Law on Compulsory Pension Insurance was adopted, which was in 2003, one of the highlights was that pension legislation would now take the fullest account of each person’s employment contribution to the level of pension insurance. Unfortunately, that was not the case. That is why, along with Peter Mikolaiovich, Simonenko, we introduced a draft amendment to article 28 of the National Pension Insurance Act. What is involved in this document? The law is extremely simple and clear. The point is that article 28 of the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u81	Microphone. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u82	Thank you. Article 28 of the Law on mandatory government pension insurance provides that in each year of overtime, one percent of the minimum pension will be paid. [[That is, for women over 20 years and for men over 25 years of age]] We suggest that this figure be increased to 2 percent for each year of overtime. I believe that this would be worth appreciating the contribution of Ukrainian citizens to the achievements they have made in Ukraine's economy. Once again, dear colleagues, please support the draft law, at least in the first reading. And then you and I will do whatever it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u83	Thank you, sit down, please. Kulczynski Mikola Georgievich Who's from?? Now, one minute, we have to find out. Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons The truth here is the committee's decision. Please write down to express your view of this bill. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Moysik passes the right to Oleg Laysch, please. Oleg Lazko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u84	Thank you, Your Honor Vladimir Romanovich, for the opportunity to express your position to the non-frustrational MP. Unfortunately, the rules of the Supreme Council are such that only members of factions are allowed to express their position under a reduced procedure. Instead, the bill that Cíbenko has just reported truly deserves support, attention. And it should be noted that this bill was registered by the end of 2007. We already have 2011 and this is three years of such an urgent bill that would help many people, they say, spend an extra penny, retirees who have worked their entire lives, also get an extra piece of State aid, in the Supreme Council almost four years did not get their hands on this important bill. It's good that we're here now and I'm absolutely confident that coalition partners, Communists and the faction of the Party of Regions will vote in favour of this bill, because it's aimed at raising the standard of living of citizens, improving their lives. But I would like to draw attention to the comments made by parliamentary experts who claim that the bill will help to level the pension, that is to say, the actual increase in the pension balance. So I think that when you go to the second reading of this bill, you have to remove these inadequacies so that people actually get their pensions depending on their employment. Because, unfortunately, we have this situation in the country today when we worked, didn't work -- the same pensions. And sometimes someone who hasn't worked his whole life has a social pension there that's bigger than a person who's been in a farm or a factory for 30-40 years or other productions. So I'm talking to my colleagues, and I'm sorry that there are no colleagues here from the opposition who should vote in favour of this bill, and not in words, but in fact take another step to support our least.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u85	Thank you. It's a strange faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u86	Basil Wonder, Party of Regions. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I sincerely support the idea of improving the existing increase in pensions depending on the length of work. However, its implementation in the bill, unfortunately, leaves it with a desire for a better one. The increase in the pension allowance from one percent, as is the case in the current law, to two percent, as proposed in the bill, in practice gives a pitiful sum -- just a few bracelets, which unfortunately will not improve the social status of pensioners. Let us be objective. However, on a national scale, these few sums of payment per person will lead to considerable expenditure from the state budget, which is not justified in the bill. And the way to cover the additional costs of removing the wage limit, which pays insurance contributions to the Pension Fund, as proposed by the author, is not regulated today. According to the authors, the purpose and purpose of this legislative initiative is to ensure that pensions are differentiated. However, in my opinion, the differentiations will not contribute to the changes proposed by the bill, such as the review of the restriction contained in article 28 of the law under discussion, namely, the word “no more than 1 per cent of the subsistence minimum” should be replaced by the words “no less than 1 per cent of the subsistence minimum”. Thus, the amount of the allowance will not be universal for all categories of pensioners, but will be differentiated depending on the basic level of the pension of the citizen. In this regard, I consider it appropriate to send a bill for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u87	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, microphone. And then John Stojko, even though it was from the faction, you passed on simply.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u88	Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I'd like to respond to the two lines that have spoken. As far as the cost is concerned. Dear colleagues, at this time every person, every pensioner for overtime has an extra salary of 7 dollars per overtime year. If it's about the next year, and it's definitely going to be about the next year, it could be, let's say, 15-16. Over the past 10 years -- 160 bucks, over 20 years -- that's over 300 bucks. I don't think it's pathetic. Secondly, I can't agree with the scientific expertise that this law leads to a level playing field. I'm sorry, I've worked harder, I'll give him more work. I think it's the right thing to do, and I'd like my honourable colleagues to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u89	Ivan Stojko. Microphone. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, Ivan Stojko, Party "For Ukraine!", faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". It really looks really cynical when people say, "Well, there's a few bracelets for a pensioner." But today, I'm sorry, I'm going to the ruling party, the Party of Regions, any bracelet for these retirees is very important, when the prices are galloping every day, when there's not even today's basic flour, or anywhere else, they're hiding 10 bracelets. And that's why it's up to me to make sure that this law is passed. And I don't think the Party of Regions will vote against it. I think if you've been in opposition, that's what you've been supporting, then you should be in charge of supporting such bills. And I don't understand when a representative of this faction speaks and reads from a leaf, he probably doesn't understand what he reads and thus insults all the pensioners of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Various suggestions were made. The committee proposes that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Let's do it this way. The first is the proposal for acceptance as a basis. If not, then let's go back to the second sentence. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". [[for minimum pension size by age]] Registration number 1024. [[12:03:20]] For-47 The decision is not taken. I'll bet the vote on the second sentence. The second proposal is about. The factions? Please. Region Party 3, "BUT – Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 17, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 0, non-fractional – 2. I'm betting on a second motion to return the bill to the subject's right of legislative initiative for pre-operation. Please vote. [[12:04:03]] For-53 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. I heard. Region Party 3, "BUT – Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 13, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, "The People's Party – 9, non-fractional – 2. Dear colleagues, we have a coalition with a draft law, there are two draft laws amending the Labour Code. Two bills: 2685 and 2705. 2705 – authorship of Gorbal, 2685 – Ribakov and Mališev. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, they won't call it off. At the same time, I received two mutually exclusive letters. The first is from the Reform Group for the Future: “In accordance with the Supreme Council Regulations and the agenda for the day-to-day eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask you to consider Bill 2685 even if there are no initiators of the bill in the session hall. Please have your personal support for the bill." So I tell you what they write. The MP's statement goes on to read: “In accordance with article 50109 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, we request that the 2685 bill, the Ribakov and Mališev initiators be postponed to the next plenary week.” It's not about calling back, it's about transferring. There are two big differences, as they say in Odessa. So, dear fellows, I'm going to put a motion to the vote first. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support it, we will consider it. I'm going to put it to a vote and ask you to determine. I'm voting on a motion to postpone the bill. [[Registration number 2685, 2705]] [[12:06:26]] For 227 The decision was taken, and the bill was passed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the sorting of internal transports]] [[Registration number 6235]] Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee and the author to review the bill under reduced procedure. [[12:07:07]] For 211 Thank you for supporting the author, dear colleagues. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Correspondent is deputy head of the Transport and Communications Committee Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u92	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, I propose to your attention a draft law amending the Road Transport Act on the regularization of internal transport. [[No. 6235]] The purpose of the bill is to delete the ambiguity of the interpretation of the terms “internal transport” and to remove terms that do not have a definition. I mean, I want to make the Road Transport Act more understandable to those who are dealing with it as an activity, and I want to take advantage of the opportunity to facilitate this bill. You know how many misunderstandings occur in practice if the rules of the law can be interpreted in mixed terms. It is known how such misunderstandings are harmful to the case. Which I propose to amend in this bill. First. Replace the definition of “internal transport” by defining them as the carriage of passengers and goods in Ukraine. This will remove the ambiguity of the treatise. Second. Replace the word “transport” with “internal transport” and thus clarify it, since the term “transport” is not defined by the law in force. Third. The phrase “transport of goods in inland transport” should be replaced by “providing services for the internal carriage of goods”. Because the current law does not define the term “inward transport of goods”. Such clarifications would make the law clearer and rid it of the double treatise. It will allow legislation to adapt to the current conditions in the road transport market. The Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine agrees with my position, which in its letter requests support for the bill. An official or carrier cannot today guess how GNEU believes a certain rule of law, a particular term, should be interpreted. An official or carrier must use the law, and it is difficult to comply with such a law with ambiguity of definitions. The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Enterprise requests the support of Bill 6235.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u93	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u94	Thank you for your attention, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u95	Thank you. Deputy Head of the Transport and Communications Committee Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich The committee's decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications, on 28 April 2010, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Road Transport, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy. [[on the sorting of internal transports]] The bill proposes that the term “internal transport” should be deleted and that the term “non-definition” should be deleted and deleted. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council in its conclusion of 14 April 2010 does not see the need to adopt the bill. Because its adoption will not have a significant impact on the organization of the internal shipments declared in its name. And the task he's working on has already been decided in the actual Automobile Act. In this regard, the adoption of the bill will not significantly affect the regulation of social relations in this area. The Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine requests support for the bill. Taking into account the guidance and outcome of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the proposed draft Law of Ukraine to direct the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Moisik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u98	Give the word to the Royal College.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u99	Natalie Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I would like to recall the words of Montesquie: “The laws of no use are depriving the law of necessity.” We have an opportunity with you today, which means a useless law, to make it clear and effective. The more conflict in the law the more complicated the legislation is today, the harder it is for us to work. You know how much time and money it takes to deal with problems caused by different misunderstandings of the same rule of law. We can all imagine what they think of us as legislators, those who try to work out daily in practice in a complicated and double law. I guess I don't think it's very good. What is wrong with the law in force? Once again, article 1 of this Act defines the term “internal transport” as “transport of passengers and goods between settlements situated on the territory of one State”. It would seem obvious, but in practice, misunderstandings are constantly emerging. The fact is that this definition is interpreted ambiguously by both the executive and the economic actors. In particular, there is a constant question as to whether or not the carriage is within one inhabited point by inland transport. Other questions were raised as to whether road hauliers carrying out transport within one of the population pools were subject to the provisions of the Act. Whether the right to carry out economic activities for the provision of passenger and cargo transport services should be licensed within one inhabited location. Therefore, my proposals to amend this law specifically eliminate the inaccuracies and these issues, which are often used by officials through elements of corruption: for some carriers, the law is treated in one form and for others is dealt with in another. The Ministry of Transport is in the same mixed position. Therefore, these amendments are technically necessary, but they fully implement the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u101	Jaroslav Suhi, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a basic law called Automobile Transport. Regarding the bill, my dear colleague, I took it and read it, studied it with experts. Because the city of Zaporozhye is constantly having disputes and conflicts in internal transportation, with the license of the city council, district council, carriers, entrepreneurs, businessmen. So I asked myself a question that I'm asking all of you today: Does this bill solve a single task? For you and I, the most important thing is there, the licensing, not the licensing, the most important issue for us is the safety of these inland transports. Please tell me how many more routes there are under the wheels on the fault of the sleepless driver, and how many more people will have to die in order to understand that there is a need for order in this area? You know very well, there is article 9 of this basic Road Transport Act. The questions you are raising about licensing are clearly mentioned in article 9. I quote: “The provision of services from internal passenger transport by buses. Providing services from internal passenger and taxi services The provision of services from domestic passenger transport by light cars is similar.” These questions in article 9, I don't think I remember part four or five clearly written and regulated. This bill, you don't get angry, but it doesn't make sense, he has no argument. That's why we can't accept a bill because we need to adopt such a bill. So I'm making a constructive proposal. This is a question that hangs in the air, and it needs to be solved. This bill cannot be rejected, but it needs to be sent to the author for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u103	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. The committee proposes that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. The main scientific and expert management in its recommendations stated that it did not see the need to adopt the bill at all. And, dear colleagues, this practice of restoring the subject of the right to legislative initiative means that at the same time we want to sit on two chairs. On the one hand, we can't give up this bill, and on the other hand, it's like we've made a half-dozen decision, and once again this legislative portfolio is dead by force, we can't deal with the system bills peacefully. So let us make a principled decision, not a decision of this half - souled nature. So the first proposal is to consider acceptance as a basis. Then the second is that we're going to go back to the committee's proposals when the first vote is, it's not going to have a positive character. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Act. [[concerning the sorting of internal transports]] [[Registration number 6235]] Please vote. [[12:17:37]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the second proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to draft the bill. [[12:18:03]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, all the questions that were planned for consideration today, you and I have successfully considered the negative outcome. Now, let's move on to the Miscellaneous. We're putting out an hour. And I'm asking you, dear fellows, to follow this practice. When they're logged in and the setup is passed on to the right, on one condition that the person in the room is sitting, not like that, the note is handed over and left to themselves, there are two speakers in the room. Yes, please log in. Yes, the names, please put them on the information board. Danilenko, the Communist faction, please, your speech. The next one will be the Chertkovs. Please show the entire list of speakers on the board. Yes, Danilenko is transferring the right to speak to Gordian Sergio, the faction of Communists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u104	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! My speech is deeply concerned about the future of two very important enterprises in the economy. The open-ended stock company DniproAzot and the Kremenchuck oil refinery Ukrtatnafta. Both of these factory giants are plagued by unfathomable rent clouds, a real threat of destruction. Our concern was first of all caused by the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine to allow the largest oil and gas mining company, Ukranafta, 50 percent plus one share of which belongs to the State, to rent the entire VAT complex DniproAzot, located in the city of Dniprožinsk Dnipropetrovsk and is privately owned. In addition, the Open Stock Company of the Skrnafta, especially I emphasize how the state company has caused so many financial and economic scandals and violations in recent years that it has completely obscured its role as a monopolist in the production of hydrocarbons in Ukraine. I briefly recall that in recent years and especially in the past 2010 the mention of Skrnaft was almost daily on printed media and television broadcasts. So many months have been the struggle of experts, government officials, and politicians to conduct auctions for the sale of oil and gas for Ukrainian production. As they say, the weather in the paws on these auctions was done by the almighty Skrnaft. Various manipulations and sly schemes from the government's budget, and above all, the Skrnafts, have washed billions of dollars. After all, by working together, the order in this queen was stated. In this respect, I would like to stress that only national deputies from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine have made more than a dozen requests and statements from the rostrum. The year 2001 started for the Skrnafta scandal at the highest level. On January 19th, at a meeting of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, Prime Minister Mikola Azarov sharply criticised the company for reducing the production of hydrocarbons and, above all, oil and gas. He called for the replacement of the inefficient managers of the Ukrnafta, who allowed the backlog of the basic sector. In early February, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine granted permission for the government company Ukraineft to rent assets in the form of a whole VAT complex, Dniproazot. At first glance, why not? Only the law would not be broken. Although some call it a forced step, whether they have taken the government and the Antimonopoly Committee in view of the fact that both in State "Ukraine" and in the private "Dniproosite" ball are governed by the management of one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u105	Yes, there's Perestenko, he also gives him the word, Marina. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u106	management of one financial industry group. What happened to Ukrainian oil and, so-called, auctions from its sale, we've already seen. Is it not similar for the production of nitrogen minblasts: carbamide, ammonia, edible sodium, liquid chlorine, and saltic acid that specializes in Dniproaset? What black schemes, in the context of a new lease, are we going to have to make parliamentary inquiries soon? Because the first symptoms appeared at the end of last year, when, for some reason, the Supreme Economic Court allowed Ukraine to use more than 1 billion cubic metres of gas from underground landfills to supply Dniprosot. Who are we going to call the real author of Dniproazot's bankruptcy as a legal structure, and what are experts increasingly and more actively warning us about? It's on the level. There is also more than enough talk about the transfer to the rent of Ukraineft another flagman of the home energy of the Cremenchuck Oil Reprocessing Plant Ukratnafta, which has recently become famous for minimizing taxes from so-called, component gasoline. It's quite clear that oil and gas, and chemical production are huge resources and potential, but it's even more money and even more interest. And in such an important state, kings must dominate the interests of our nation above all. The Communist faction of Ukraine requires the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to carefully analyse the purpose of transferring the entire property complex of the open stock company Dniproazot and the Cremencucci oil refinery Ukratnafta to the rental of the state company Ukrnafta, which itself urgently needs technological, financial and organizational recovery. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Government of Ukraine and to the leadership of the Antimonopoly Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u107	Please, Dwarves. Get ready. Please, Mutz. I can't see. Saltus. Muz, please. Saltus to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. A year has passed since the Ukrainians entrusted Viktor Yanukovitch with the responsibility of rebuilding the country. And we have a responsible government, a consolidated work of power, political and economic stability. The positive socio-economic significance is the first year of the presidency of Viktor Yanukovic for Western Ukraine. Viktor Janukovic held his first field meeting in Galicina, stressing: “I will do everything I can to make sure that people in Lviv, Ternopolska or any other Western region live no worse than in Ukraine as a whole. This is the sum total of the work of the former patriotic pseudo for Western areas." So what's important for these areas is the priorities that the head of state supports, the fight against corruption, the new regional and budgetary policies, the rise in social standards. Without it, we do not implement what we claim to be true. Strong regions are strong Ukraine, including strong Western Ukraine. Today the government is signing agreements with a number of areas on their socio-economic development. Lvivšina, Ternopilščina, Ivano-Frankovščina will receive funds to solve urgent problems: construction of roads, milk complexes, restoration of production, reconstruction of castles, completion of long-lived buildings. It's about rebuilding Western Ukraine. With the help of the head of state in Western areas, work on Euro - 2012 objects is taking place in a responsible manner. People are supporting power, and the support of the Party of Regions has increased in the election to the local councils in Galicina. It was important for the Westerners that the President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, met in the Saint-Uspen Pochayovska Lavry in Ternopilska, on the anniversary of independence. In 2009 in Galicina, Viktor Yanukovic was given an embroidery to protect him as President of Ukraine. This year, in western Ukraine, the Heads of State gave the image of God’s Mother of Pocaius, wishing to carry a large and responsible service to the people of Ukraine. The country already has an example of such service, an example of today’s president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I will now give my word to the next one. But at the same time, let me inform you about the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Council with regard to the statement made by the BUT faction. According to the Ukrainian Security Service, no one storms the Turkish office. Saltus. None. Is it? Yes, Soltus does, yes. Please, please. Bessie's getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u110	I give the floor to the Deputy Sameilenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u111	Dear colleagues of the electorate! The UN estimates that more than 800 million people in the world are already suffering from hunger and malnutrition. Each of them is a child. About 24,000 people die every day from hunger and disease caused by it. Three quarters of them are children under the age of five. In the next 40 years, the situation will be further exacerbated. The population of the Earth will grow to 9.2 billion. To feed them, it will take at least twice the capacity of the food industry to feed them. 37 surfaces of the earth have already been allocated to agricultural land. It is unlikely that the area will be enlarged. However, more and more crops are being allocated to raps and other technical cultures. The most important thing is the pronouncing human factor. In 2050, it is estimated that at least 80 per cent of earthlings will live in cities. The planet will become a giant megapolis that will have to be fed somehow. According to world experts, Ukraine is one of the key States that can help overcome the food crisis expected soon in the world. But this requires a system that will restore agriculture, which will focus primarily on the internal market, rather than importing basic food crops from abroad, and eliminate the rapid growth of products. A system must be established that provides for responsibility for the inefficient use of land, non-compliance with the requirements of sequestration, effective monitoring and enforcement by all public policy actors. Agriculture must be developed through intensive methods to increase the fertility of land and the quality of production. It is therefore necessary to bring an effective owner back to earth and allow him to develop. The country must be an exporter of finished agricultural products. I spent a week in my district, and there were mostly agricultural areas. [[39 constituency, Dnepropetrovska]] And what I said is, in general, it's shared by all the villagers. I was addressed with a letter from the Hero of Social Work, a master of the Pochrovsky region of the Dnepropetrov region, a former member of the Supreme Council of the two conventions, Perpechaenko Raisa Stepanovna. A copy was sent to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister and the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll announce some of that. "I was born and live in a village to this day, I know his life from 'a' to'me', I turn on the TV every night, and I'm waiting to hear about the village's help. But in response, I hear Kiev, Kiev, build a house, and spare it so that it may be made available to everyone. Maybe it's not bad, everyone's saying raise the economy by oil, gas and coal, why are they forgetting the land, the agriculture that fed the entire globe? They gave the land to tenants without the obligation to grow vegetables, fruits, bread, meat, milk. We had a factory that the local colliers supplied with raw materials, and this allowed us to produce high quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u112	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Beavez, this is Lechchenka. Please prepare for the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u113	Candlestick.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u114	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Montenegro. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! During the day - to - day session, I am not always able to express my opinion, so I will stop on three questions. First. The pervasive faction did not support the bill to simulate the development of domestic machinery for an agro-industrial complex and failed. They are not interested in the whole range of circumstances, primarily the situation in agriculture. Four million acres [4 million ha] of roller coasters, the culture of agriculture endures no criticism, and in monoculture, the earth wears out, degrades. Where traditional, for example, cultures for Polisi Lion and Potato, where symposia, where soil fertility increases, is where technical weapons are. In agrarian monopolies, it's foreign technology, it's supporting foreign producers, it's creating jobs. And in our farmers, pre - Flood technology has been cooked, overcooked, wired by wire or by pitchfork and shoveling, and domestic industrial power. So to this question, I think we should go back. The other one. According to the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council approved in its first reading a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children. Payments have been increased correctly, but they smell populism, family problems, children, and young people need to be resolved in a complex manner, and they view rural and urban conditions as uneven, as well as depressing territories. I think that young people need to first create jobs, to regulate prices and tariffs so that they don't eat them, even though they said that inflation counts. They need to be able not only to have the right but also to have the opportunity to obtain housing. And the third. Parliamentary hearings on pension reform took place on Wednesday. Reported to Vice Prime Minister Tihypco. He was convinced that there was no alternative to the government cable, because the Pension Fund and the state budget couldn't handle the pressure. The media reported that the issue has been practically resolved. And people have asked, and there are other ways to solve the problem, not to borrow from the International Monetary Fund, and let the patriotist capitalists drop, lay the shoulders of the state. Take, after all, for the recovery of the economy, for the creation of new jobs, for the removal of wages from the shadows and all that. On February 11th, a public hearing was held at the Central Square of the President’s Administration, following the Communist initiative. First of all, none of the authorities came, second of all, people were determined against this new government adventure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u115	Yes, John the Rabbit. Baby, don't look at the process. Get ready, Mironek.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u116	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the year is coming to an end, as is the rule of the new government, and it is now necessary to summarize, see what has not been done, and what has been harmful to citizens and the state. A proper assessment of the actions of the President, the government, the parliamentary majority is needed. I wouldn't be speaking today if I hadn't heard from the factions of the Party of Regions and Communists on Tuesday. The representative of the Party of the Regions flooded with the nightingale, praising the annual activity of the ruling regime. Do you not realize that this lie will not be believed by any citizen because they see the opposite picture in real life: from day to day, their incomes are falling, because prices are rising at an alarming rate, and pensions and wages remain in place, unemployment is rising. In the past year, the majority of citizens were even more impoverished. And justice fled the country. At the same time, the oligarchs doubled their wealth. So it would be true if the members of the Party of Regions were praising authority on behalf of the oligaric clans, the Mafia, corruption, not on behalf of the common people. A representative of the Communist faction was so distressed, so he protected the people from the oligarchs, from the ruling regime, that he probably choked some of them with tears. Who were these words counted on? Because everyone knows that CPI is part of this regime and is an ideological cover for the Party of Regions. Why do people cheat? Is it a nose election or something else to trade in oligarchs, and why are there people working, laborers of fields and factories? On Wednesday, the Supreme Council held parliamentary hearings on pension reform. And there we were again told by government officials that the authorities were leading the Ukrainians in a European way. You see, countries that are members of the European Union like France are raising the retirement age, and we're doing this, why are we indignant? But there is as much in common between Ukraine and the EU as there is in between water and fire. We are being asked to start a pension reform from what European democratic countries are completing. Before increasing the retirement age, Western Europeans engaged in a package of measures, including the doctrine of expensive labor that allowed them to go beyond the solidarity pension system to the accumulation system. In Western democracies, the authorities have brought the shadow economy to a minimum. We have 50 percent shadow economy. Where will the Pension Fund be filled? You could say that in the West there are better mechanisms for the satisfaction of citizens with jobs, we have total unemployment. They're also working to remedy the demographic situation, we've got everything on the spot. So, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to speak the truth and the truth will free you: a party of regions free of communist mentality and communists free of oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u117	Thank you for your concern. Mironenko. Please prepare for Komaru. Yes, it's Christmas Eve, Mironenko. Please. The mosquito is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The country was shocked by the terrible news that all the media had blown up about the alleged closure of a Ukrainian school in Luhansk, the Red Lucz district of Lugansk and the mockery of Ukrainian language. I'm telling you, in national language, that's a lie! And, unfortunately, that's the problem. In a State created 20 years ago by people of all nationalities, of all religions. Those who are now indigenous, the nation-creating nations of our State, today try to impose fascist ideology and explain what we have the main languages, we have the main nations and there are the occupying nations, and there are mancurts and “other things”. I remind you that we are building a society of equal opportunities, which is democratic and where we are all equal. Why do the media not report that, for example, this summer in Donetsk and Luhansk, for example, some 100 parents were unable to reach the opening of a Russian language class? That this problem had to be interfered with by the Minister of Education, and only three months later, the parents were able to meet the needs of their children. Why didn't the media tell us that two days ago in Donetsk, there was a four-hour rally of 200 parents who demanded that Russian-speaking School No. 2 in Donetsk. Where is the responsibility of these media? Where, then, is the responsibility of those who bear the good everlasting life that our society brings up? How do we assess the situation when we receive objective information on the fact that there are no violations of the closure of the Ukrainian Organization, which did not conform to the standards of the law of the Russian Federation, on a tele bridge with Ukrainian diaspora in Moscow yesterday? They did not have representation in more than half of the entities of the Russian Federation. Several other national-cultural federal districts have been affected by such acts. Where is the truth in this case? Why is there an upheaval? During the air of the direct representative, the co-chairman of Ukrainian lands, Mr. Soloviev, says: "We have no problem, why does no one want to come to us and ask us, "What are our problems?" We ask him, "Where are the Ukrainian classes? “ He says, ‘So we can’t complete these classes. The Moscow Government provides space and facilities, as well as for the Ukrainian library, which is financed from the budget of the Russian Federation.” That is why I call again, to hear from each other and to understand that we are all in a very fragile vessel of our state. And we must treat each other with respect. We don't have the best and the worst, we're all the same, and we're all doomed to live in one state. Nationalists and fascists don't belong in this boat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u119	Yes, the mosquito is passing it on to Kowalevski. Please, Julia. Prepare Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, TV crews, radio listeners! The day is one year from the date of the acceptance of the oath of allegiance to the people of Ukraine by President Viktor Yanukovic. During the presidential election campaign, the Ukrainian people gave a clear signal of the need for radical changes in the situation in the country, particularly in the economy, by entrusting them to the Party of the Regions team. The new power was able to break the economic situation for the better quickly and professionally in a very short time, halting Ukraine's rapid downturn into an economic crisis. We've already seen the results. In the economic life of the country, a steady recovery began. We are often insulted by what little has been done in the past year. I can't agree with that. The results of our team's work are already visible today. 2010 was one of the most difficult years in the country's history of independence. Yulia Timoshenko left an empty waste, astronomical debts, a breakdown of the management system, a fall of less than 15 per cent of the gross domestic product. The country stood at the edge of the abyss. The Ukraines have prophesied the default. However, the Government of Azarov was able to cope with the crisis in a year. The Government has endured the deficits established by the State Budget Act, calculated with all the country's debts, resumed its cooperation with the IMF, increased the State's financial system's strength, and gained access to the international capital market. All the social obligations of the authorities have been fully fulfilled. In particular, the requirements of the Ukrainian Housing Minimum and Minimum Wage Act have been met, and basic social standards have been raised by an average of 24 per cent, with an inflation rate of 9.1 per cent. There has been a 10.2 per cent increase in real wages. The average annual minimum pension rate increased by 200 bracelets compared to 2009. Since 1 August 2010, the disabled persons of the Great Homeland War and the participants in hostilities have received an additional increase of an average minimum pension payment of 21 per cent. Funding has been made available from Ukraine's State budget for the housing of persons with disabilities of the First Group of the Great Homeland War and some 500 apartments have been purchased for them in 115 settlements. With the increase in social benefits in 2010, the Government reduced the cost of a bureaucratic device by 600 million bracelets. And this year, by reducing and optimizing the authorities, it is planned to save more than 1 billion rubies. In fact, many administrative procedures have been simplified in the management system, not in words, but in fact, in the fight against corruption. The Government of Azarov has proved its work in literacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u121	Thank you, it's all right. Yes, Popescu. Get ready for him, Bondar's handing over the helmet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! As a national deputy, I received a letter of this kind. “The Territorial Community of the Iževska Rural Council of the Stražinetsky District of the Cherniewec Region asks you to contribute to the funding for the reconstruction of the Iževci Bridge on Main Street, which was destroyed during the natural disaster on 29 June 2010. Construction works are started by the Winnicki Bureau, but they're stopped because of the lack of funding. In the village of Iževci, there are 5,000,600 people who have been separated from the district center. At this point, the connection is made on a pontoon bridge that is dangerous for use. In this regard, transport organizations refuse to transport passengers. There are problems with the provision of food and bread. The village head of Pisul." During my term in the constituency, I went to a place to get to know the situation. The following was discovered. By December of last year, the work was complete. But then Winnick’s IBU took the workers away, leaving the technicians and guards behind, as the funding ran out. The bridge remained unfinished. The city is located in the village of Iževce of the Strižinetsk district of Chernivecke region along the Siretel River on the 2+000 km side of the S-261006 Jjevci-Ursaya and requires 6 million 670,000 dollars to be repaired. In this connection, I have asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minfin, Ukraine and Ukraine to facilitate the inclusion of this object in the Cabinet of Ministers' project on the approval of the list of construction, reconstruction and capitalization of road infrastructures, state and local importance in 2011 and the extent to which they are financed. I made this statement so that the inhabitants of the village of Iževci would know that the authorities were informed of the situation and that the situation was under control. And those who try to speculate on it, please calm down. Thank you for your attention. Once again, I assure the inhabitants of the village of Iževci and the surrounding villages that we will solve this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u123	A helmet. Stand by, Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u124	Dmitry Schlemko, BUT faction "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! Stalinism is back on track. Sadly, this is not a word, but a reality today. Because that is how we can describe recent events in our country: persecution by leaders of opposition, the discovery of criminal cases against people who care about national property, the suppression of freedom of speech, and, finally, the abuse of Ukrainian patriots. That's right. Because what did the young men from Trizubu named Stephen Bendera, who have their own position on assessing the situation in Ukraine, do legitimately fight against the anti-Ukrainian forces? Their fault is only one thing. Unlike powerful men and many politicians, they are well aware of the history of their native Fatherland, the laws that forbid the setting up of monuments to the executioners of the Ukrainian people. It's on one of them, him. And recently the head was cut off as one that was illegally installed in Zaporozhye, as the newly elected city head of the Son claimed for days. Ironically, today’s power to fight illegal acts itself has unleashed a war against those who are law - abiding. It came to the conclusion that the head of Ivano-Frankivske ODA, Mikhailo Vishivanuk, has announced the preparation of a terrorist act against President Yanuković of Ukraine in Prikarpat. The provocation didn't work. Nevertheless, dozens of young tridents were thrown into prison just to have the courage to comply with the previous president of the country’s decree to demolish totalitarian monuments. Let's think about history. What was typical of the work of Stalin’s agents? Sadistic actions, humiliation of honor and dignity. Sadly, today’s law enforcement officers are no different from their predecessors. This is confirmed by the following. Six detained in the Ivano-Frankiv area of Tridents on charter flights from Lviv to Zaporozhye in handcuffs, as a prisoner, are accompanied by as many as thirty Special Forces. Four days in the frozen prison cells of Zaporozhye they are kept without food, only on the fifth day they give water with the Mivina. At the request of the detainees, hold a protocol for questioning in Ukrainian, allow lawyers, answer one: electric shocks in the most painful of places, brutal beatings, and torture. As a result, some have a concussion, others have a TB, and a young trident named Philip Taran needs urgent back surgery. The defense of a precaution is the term of custody, the court accepted without lawyers, without the presence of any of the detainees. That's what they say in a letter to me as a national MP, the mother of Taran Jean Stampik, lawyer of Igor Sulima. Today, the President, the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies, have been approached by 45 national deputies of the "BUT" faction. I'm also addressing my speech as a request. That's why the words of the chief militiaman of the Mogilov country, who claims 90 percent to be a lie, sound totally abusive and cynical. It is good that at least 10 leaves for the truth. And Henprocuror of Ukraine Pshonka claims that the tridents complained of the absence of a light bulb in the cell. There is no limit to the truth of lies. Or else in word and deed for Stalin in Stalin. But there's a limit to everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u125	Thank you. I invite John Stojko, the faction “Our Ukraine. ” He will be followed by Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Ivan Stojko, Party for Ukraine! There has indeed been much talk here today about the coming, coming, as it were, of the reign of the new government of Viktor Yanukovich. And we see in Ukraine, as the authorities are preparing, the boards are hanging everywhere: come, listen to the President. But somehow I think and I'm afraid it's going to be like it was yesterday in Odessa, where the President himself was forced to invite people because people weren't allowed. Similarly, questions will probably be taken of how this is happening in Russia, and the President will thus communicate with Ukraine. We wouldn't want that to happen. And judging from the performance of a colleague of Mutz representing Ternopolish, he said that everything is very beautiful, the milky rivers are flowing there, and that it's going to be rebuilt. That's not really the case, because if someone wants to come from Ternopol to Lviv, it doesn't take two hours, 120 kilometers to go now, but it takes four or five hours, because the hole in the pit, the road doesn't repair; the castles that were neglected in Terebovla, or Butchachi, or in Kremenec are the same, and many examples can be cited in the work of the public authorities, the education workers, the cultures that don't have the salary that was promised, and so on. And so it's no wonder that people are going out to protest action today, not surprisingly, as we've seen in the East, people are not only starving, they're already saying they're going to blow themselves up, they're going to be self-inflicted. And this is where Koleszenko said it's not, and again it's because no one's bringing people out, they're going to freeze themselves, and they're talking about schools closing down, teaching states shrinking, wages don't go up, bribes everywhere, corruption. It has come to the point that not only are we talking about Greek today, but we are talking about the fact that there is no flour, but if there is, 10 or more bracelets. What is this new policy? What kind of economic policy is this? When we have a less-than-retirement reform, a more faithful tax reform, we are now considered to be a pension where it is completely absurd, because the limits to which the pensioner is subjected are simply not that he can't live, but he won't live to that pension. And now know-how has been invented by the Donetsk governor, who says, "Yes, nothing. We're going to move those people from large apartments to smaller ones," because they didn't seem to deserve it. What does this authority do? And that's why I'm talking to Yanukovic, and I'm talking to the accommodating majority, especially the Party of Regions. You're not fooling people, because today they're expressing confidence that wasn't what they were a year ago. You already have half the rating. And I'm not saying in Western Ukraine where there was no rating and never will be, because there's Ukrainian patriotism, there's Ukrainian patriotism.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u127	Thank you. I invite Vladimir Yavorowski to the floor. He will be followed by Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u128	Vladimir Yavorowski. There is great wisdom that shows that a wise person, a wise person learns from other people’s mistakes, a fool tries to learn from his own, but it fails. I have the impression that Janukovich's helmet, the one that works, means on the dance floor around him, goes this way, and learns from his own mistakes. What do I mean? At one time when we realized that Kuchma was leading Ukraine into a completely deadlocked policy, I wrote him five open letters, which were published, requiring his resignation. For this, the National Association of Writers, which I lead, and one of the most active creative organizations, even in a political sense, was struck by a colossal blow, at least that's what they thought. At night they tried to take over the headquarters office in Bankova, 2, and they refused to have a meeting room. They organized some self - control in the bushes, some sort of coincidence, but the writers then stood up and protected themselves. I want to remind you that these are usually people who are poor, because today's fees are forgotten about the possibility of publishing a book at all. And then we gathered on the street and held a full - time legitimate rally, where we confirmed all the authority and rejected the Kuchma attack. Then came Victor Yushchenko, to whom I, too, had written a rather harsh open letter a year and had to stop torturing the people and voluntarily resign. After that, he was involved in the operation "Baloga", which he concluded, including the Crimean Prosecutor's Office, the Kyiv Region, the city of Kiev, the Lviv Region -- all he could do was shake down all the property that was in the National Writer's Association. Worked for about three months in the sweat of the forehead. They didn't find anything. There was no note of the slightest mirage. Although it is only natural that there may have been some inaccuracies, since it is a self - control organization that manages it, the gathering is managed by property. What they are doing today, realizing that writers will not be subjected to anti - Ukrainian politics, anti - Ukrainian politics, national interests that take place at every turn. And ministers like Tobacco, that's perfectly clear to everyone, we're in opposition today. A new cycle of repression against the National Association of Writers begins. Now some city council heads are trying to break the deal to the ground, and then our creative buildings are not needed. What I'm trying to say is that it's time to set up a robbery model at the Presidential Palace or residence. And let everyone coming to power come upon them, and let these rakes beat him in the head, and let them learn from the error of others rather than from their own. The writers' union, Mr. Yanukovich, you will not be given back! Please, Mr. Mikolo, form this as my official request to the President, to the head of the government, to the police.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u129	I see. Please prepare an appropriate MP’s request, as discussed by Vladimir Yavorowski. Catherine Semenovna Samoylik gives the word to Eugene Kzarykov, a faction of Communists. He'll be followed by Nicholas Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u130	Respectable voters, respected TVs! I can't help but answer the one point that came before me, Schlemko was, and rightly said to Ekaterina Samoylik, that, thank God, the party had been cleansed of such people who were the secretary of the Rajkom Company of Ukraine in Ivano-Frankowsk, and then such a vast homeland that had a rich mention of the Motherland with a bug on its head. Well, God's his judge. There is not much time left when the Euro-2012 Championship will take place in the football fields of Ukraine and Poland, which will involve many teams from the countries of the Anti-Hitler Coalition. Ukraine, as one of the warring parties with fascism and its criminal formation of the Galicina SS division and the UPA UN gangs, suffered the most serious losses from Hitlerites and Ukrainian nationalists who served them faithfully. Even the Gestapo masters of death were horrified by sophisticated methods of brutal killings of the population. The blood trails of their crimes have been left in many cities and villages of Belarus, Russia, Slovakia, Yugoslavia. The victims of UNODA bandits in Ukraine, Belarus, Poland were tens of thousands of Ukrainians, Russians, Belarusians, Poles, Jews. The list of their atrocities, which have been horrifying for hours, has been regrettable that in recent years Ukraine has allowed the heads of the unbeatable Bandarians who have plagued the neo-Fascist ideology of the whole country and the harmful effects that affect our generation today. The process of fascisming the country, especially in Western Ukraine, has become the epicenter of neo-Nazi expansion and has reached enormous proportions. Where is the guarantee, given the lessons of history, that the neo-Nazi epidemic will not affect other countries of Europe? As of today, there have been unpunished public appeals to force the Dnieper Bandar army to take over Ukraine all the way to Donetsk to establish a new order there, they say. Lviv, as the center of Galicina, has become an unmanaged central authority enclave, where, with the challenge of all the countries of the anti-Hitler coalition, fascist admirers are heroized, and the terrorists Bender and Gauptturmfurer Shuhevich and other Nazi apprehensions are presented with monuments. This raises the question of how the Euro-2012 participants will perceive the symbolism of Nazism, which is literally the figure of Lviv? This question is asked by a German whose homeland is considered to be a crime and punished by law, and we will also be asked by the Polish, Russian and Jewish alike. As soon as the Bender memorial complex is seen, the representatives of the nationalities of Europe and the CIS will surely be outraged. One person, Lviv, is not a person of all Ukraine, and that is why the faction of mass treatments and veteran organizations, and of the Union of Officers and veterans of the Armed Forces, are coming to us in order that the faction of Communists before the Prime Minister of Ukraine, in front of the Kolesnik Vice-Prime Minister, raises this question before the President that, by Euro-2012, Lviv and other cities of Western Ukraine must be cleansed of the symbols of neo-fascists and conceits who killed both Slavs and Europeans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u131	I'd like to introduce you to Michael Sherschun. Dear colleagues, I would like to make a more correct statement because the face of Lviv or the face of Donetsk or the face of Kiev is the face of Ukraine, because Ukraine is different, but it has to be the only one. I'd like us to be right. Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, Block Lithuania. He will be followed by Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u132	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Respectable heads, honourable colleagues, the Plains region, like many other areas of Ukraine, do not abandon the problems of the village, their countless: youth unemployment, poor quality roads, insufficient number and equipment of medical, educational, and much more. Small - scale farming is the most acute problem. In the Plain region, some 50,000 small farms, ranging from two to five acres [2 to 5 ha], total about 100,000 hectares [100,000 ha] of land. In the area, along with farming, they produce about 80% of dairy meat, 95% of potatoes and vegetables, and nearly half of the grains, but there are problems. So the owners of small-scale farms ask the government, the Supreme Council, to regulate the terms of government support and credit. First of all, Ukraine’s Personal Farming Act should be extended, taking into account the state support system for small-scale farms. It was also necessary to change the rules of the auction to agricultural land. Today, the farmer must take part in the auction in order to increase his land supply at the expense of the stock. The Association of Farmers of the Plain Region proposes to amend existing legislation by allowing a farmer or a person who plans to engage in farming and resides on the territory of the appropriate rural council, where the land is stocked, to allocate land without a given procedure, and only by a decision of the local council. And most importantly, farmers are in favour of creating the Earth Bank. The villagers realize that Ukrainian land will inevitably become a commodity, so they put out their options to create the land market. The main principle of the first option is that the land is purchased only by the state and only through the Earth Bank. In doing so, the government sets the price for land, buys it from the owner through the Earth Bank, perhaps on a schedule, and then rents it to those who want to process it. The rent pays the land’s value to its former owner, and a percentage stays in the state. Another option offered by farmers can be a source of fulfillment of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. In this case, the sale of land is made directly from the seller to the buyer. But the state sets the price for land and controls such operations. Instead, the buyer and seller pay 10 percent of the land to the Pension Fund together. I think we should listen to the farmer's offer. Because they understand, as no one else, the whole nature of land relations in Ukraine, and take their opinion into account in the draft laws on the State Land Bank of Ukraine, on the land market, on the State Land cadastre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u133	I invite you, Vladimir Moysik, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". It will be followed by Eugene Volintz, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u134	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I'd like to say two words before we speak on the state of judicial reform about what my colleague, John Stojko, has not been able to report in the session room. It was not only Orestes Mutz who confused times and ages, but he even confused the leaves from which he was speaking. I swear to you, I've heard this speech in the previous order of the "Variance" day. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express the concern of our party, the Party "For Ukraine!", about the state of judicial and legal reform in our country. Actually, it wasn't judicial reform, it was court reform. Thanks to the approved law, the party of power has assembled, and more specifically has “packed up”, the Higher Council of Justice, the Higher Qualification Commission, members of its parties, and has never reached the courts. The judges have not improved the procedural law, improved the material security, made it easier for people to do so, and it has not become any closer or more accessible. And just before that, I would like to isolate my position with the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, my constituents, I would like us to return to this Hall all the powers of the Supreme Court of Ukraine he had since 1918. The court must be the highest judicial authority, not the academic institution. What is the power of explaining to the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine if the plenary itself is not a judicial body and the Supreme Court itself does not have procedural powers? In fact, the power of explaining to the plenary of the Supreme Court at all times was based on the Supreme Court of Ukraine to have procedural superiority over all the courts of Ukraine. In other words, the Supreme Court has always forced the application of the law, as it was written by us as legislators, to the final decision. And one more thing, I was talking about cutting judges in the Supreme Court. Dear parliamentarians, we are unfairly referring to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. In a law that is fundamental, reformative, we have promised the judges that all of you who remain in the Supreme Court until 20 judges are reduced, you will work until you are 20. A few months later, a law is passed that judges are asked to resign. First of all, it's illegal and second of all, it's not fair. And one more thing: Your Honor, whether it's a matter of establishing 20 or 30 or 50 judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, thank you for the performance, because it's a very big turn here and our colleagues. Welcome to Eugene Wolintz's statement, the Communist faction will be followed by Basil Delevlyan from "BUT- "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u136	Dear Nikolai Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters, I would like to draw your attention to the problems of the central enrichment plants, such as one enrichment plant in the Donetsk region. At present, COF Krasnolymanska City of Krasnolymanska is in a catastrophic state. During normal operation, the factory is able to process 3 million tons of coal per year with a high-quality concentration. At the moment, the factory is practically standing, as the shipment of red coal is taking place. The COF team is placed on a condition that it is not possible to carry out the assigned planned tasks, thus reducing wages almost twice. A large part of the main equipment for COF in the building and construction is used for more than 30 years and requires replacement or major repairs. The coal company's funds do not allow the equipment to operate continuously at the COF. Currently, owing to the lack of spare parts, the materials have been removed from operation as part of the enrichment equipment. Some machines are in an emergency. Arriving railways are in an emergency condition. But what is particularly important is that, owing to the lack of funds, there is no funding for labour protection programmes, which does not comply with the requirements of the CDM, other inspections, nor is there a normal degree of visibility in the workplace. There's elevators on the factory. There is no overlap and no automation by the specialized organizations. Planned job appraisal has been suspended. The staff training programme is not working. There is no provision for personal protection by a specialty. There are no sources of drinking water in the workplace and much more. Thus, the paragraph of the collective agreement on safe and healthy working conditions is not implemented. No tools and materials are available: wreaths, shovels, soap, brushes, brushes, brushes, rubber gloves and other instruments, and other moments, small workers acquire for their own resources. It is clear to all that working on well-maintained production during preventive activities is easier and more beneficial than working on worn-out and unfulfilled repairs. Latation of holes and support of pants undoubtedly requires great work, moral and material forces. On the basis of the above, please review the financial activities of the Krásnolimanska COF, draw the attention of the Ministry of the Coal Industry to the problems of the Ukrainian enrichment plant, to develop proposals for effective reform of the coal sector, to protect the rights of workers at the TCF for labour protection. Please consider the official requests made by the Ministry of the Coal Industry and the Ministry. Mintruda and social policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u137	I'd like to invite Vassil Wooden, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He'll be followed by Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u138	Vasile Derevljany, Faction "BUT" is "The Fatherland." Dear Ukrainians, I would like to inform you of how the Ukrainians are treated abroad to the current power of Yanukovic. The Ukrainian Congressional Committee of America, representing more than 1 million Americans of Ukrainian descent, strongly condemns the last wave of persecution by the Ukrainian authorities of political opponents, as well as the intimidation of journalists, civil and cultural activists. The Ukrainian Congressional Committee of America is alarmed and deeply concerned about the recent increase in anti - democratic events in Ukraine and the use of criminal justice by President Yanukovic for its political purposes. In the last few weeks, even days, his political opponents have been arrested. A large number of journalists are intimidated, civil liberties are suppressed, and Ukraine’s national identity is threatened. The document states that since the arrival of President Viktor Yanukovic in February 2010, we have witnessed an alarming return to the Kremlin-style strong-arm tactics that resemble the days of the Soviet regime. In recent weeks, all Ukraine has been subjected to wave arrests on the basis of antiterrorist actions. Writers and journalists are intimidated, books and literature are confiscated from publications, and museums are closed. The Committee’s greatest concern is the selective application of the regime of justice, which has led to numerous arrests and investigations against leaders of the political opposition. In addition, Janukovic’s regime tries to rewrite Ukrainian history by destroying Ukrainian national identity, denying the genocide against the Ukrainian people by eliminating the Institute of National Memory, closing the National Republican Museum, and officially depriving Stephen Bandera of the name Hero of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Congressional Committee of America strongly condemns and discredits the despicable and unconstitutional treatment of the Yanukovic regime, its discrediting of the Ukrainian history of national identity, and calls for an immediate cessation of violations of human rights and national rights in the country. The next thing I want to say is how the authorities of Yanukovich treat the Galician people today. Two times like this. During January-February 2011, ODA's head directed another terror against entrepreneurs in the area. They are forced to buy televisions, nuggets, to light up all the inhabited areas, to run a regional party program because the head of ODA himself says they don’t have the money for it. The other one. Today’s city authorities have begun the process of closing down the Third Ternopil City Hospital. My address please be considered a request to the Government of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u139	Thank you. I got it. I ask the apparatus to prepare appropriate questions that relate specifically to part of the activities of the head of the district administration and, perhaps, the closure of the medical facility. I give my word to Oleg Lazko and Olga Bodnar will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! Ukraine is today a state that has not yet resolved the issue of guaranteeing its national security. Unfortunately, we have not been able to strengthen the safeguards by the nuclear powers in the framework of the 1994 Budapest memorandum. Even the events of 2008 in Georgia taught us nothing. We have not been able to force the signatory countries to initiate a new security dialogue to get Ukraine new reinforced safeguards. It's a failure. At the same time, after the 2010 presidential election, another security issue, Ukraine's cooperation with NATO, also came to a secondary stage. Such a situation is unacceptable, and national security is not a joke. Therefore, I am not leaving my efforts to ensure that the pepper dialogue with NATO continues not only through the annual national programmes. We have to look at these issues more broadly. At least the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on the Principles of Ukraine's Internal and Foreign Policy does not burn the bridges of dialogue between NATO and our state. Concerned about the state of national security and the tranquillity of citizens, I, as early as December 2010, took the initiative to invite NATO Secretary-General Anders Fog Rasmussen to speak at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who will visit Ukraine on February 24th. I would ask colleagues from different factions to support this initiative. With world events in mind, I hope that the statement by the Secretary-General of NATO will take place during today's session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After all, there was much to discuss. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u141	I would like to invite Olga Bodnar, the “BUT – Fatherland” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u142	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, Fatherland Party, BUT – Fatherland. Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio and television audiences and listeners! During the holding of the next citizen’s reception, in the right - hand district of Kiev, I was asked by the voter Valentina Koseljeva to help me with a just solution to the problem that has lasted for more than two years. The cost of the question is the tragically torn life of an innocent person. The incident occurred on May 21, 2009. In the Bay of Desenka, near the village of Trojščina in the right - hand region of Kiev, a citizen of Drobotov, Sergio Antoliyovich, was driven by a motorboat at a speed of 15 feet [15 m] from the shore by a wooden rowboat. As a result, Lavrinenko Nina Pavlovna, a Chinese woman, died as a result of severe bodily damage. Her husband, who was with her, was miraculously alive. The facts of this tragedy were immediately hidden from the general public. Magnolia told the news a month later in a news collection about the tragedy. Immediately after the tragic event, the coast of the Desenka River turned into an exhibition of expensive sights. Cell phones, cameras, cameras were taken from the witnesses, destroying evidence of the crime, after which all witnesses were launched. On the following day, on May 21, 2009, the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Ukraine in Kiev was charged with a criminal offence in connection with a violation of traffic-related traffic regulations under article 291 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Part two of article 98 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine stipulates that in the case of a person who has committed a crime at the time of the crime, a criminal case should be brought against that person. As a result, the criminal case must have been promptly violated in relation to Sergey Drotov, born in 1983, and under article 291 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, united into one conduct and brought to trial. However, the reality of the present is that social ties and social status in society are higher than the law. The Lawrynen family is constantly threatened by a lawyer and the father of Anatoly Drobotov, who owns the ship, as well as other relatives of the criminal who, instead of compassion for the crime committed, came into a grieving family and assured them that they were very influential and wealthy people who would easily find the right amount of money to buy their son out of criminal responsibility. These are direct manifestations of corruption, which is falsely evidenced by the nearly twofold paper burden in Kiev’s task force. During this period two court-martials were assigned and executed. the expert opinion that the final decision on the case should be taken. In September of last year, the Office of the Chief Executive of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev completed its investigation and sent a case to the Prosecutor's Office of Kiev for a criminal offence against Drobotov and for the determination of the investigation. For three months, Kyiv’s prosecutor’s office created conditions to eliminate the guilty person from criminal responsibility, as evidenced by numerous responses to the address of the deceased family. All appeals addressed to the President, registered with the Attorney General's Office, from which all documents are referred to the Prosecutor's Office of Kiev. This capital family, like thousands of others, has not even found compassion in our country, let alone justice. Please be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u143	Thank you. Please prepare for the appeal of the national deputy Olga Bodnar. And in order to complete the hour for the various questions, I invite Yuri Carmazin. Please, Yuri Anatoliovich, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! The need for my appeal is due to the fact that I want to pay attention to the Ukrainian Security Council and that it should consider changing tariff policy in the area of specialized port services. Because the geographical location of the transport infrastructure can and must meet the transport needs of not only domestic and external economic ties but also the demand of third countries. That analysis we did showed that Ukraine today has stakes on shipping containers five times higher than Greece and Egypt, three times higher than Italy, two times higher than Turkey and Romania. So we're all being wasted, and today we're creating conditions to increase economic growth in the countries we've named. As a result, we lost Belarusian, Moldovan, Russian cargo, more importantly, some goods from Turkey, for example, are more convenient to drive around Europe, Riga or Klaipeda, and from there to Kiev than to drive through Odessa or Ilchivsk. This is the problem I would like to consider with the Ukrainian Security Council, and I would like to send a request there. I am also addressing the Antimonopoly Committee and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which under the leadership of Azarov cannot look at this problem in a comprehensive way. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that Ukraine will become and will continue to be a clear carrier and a guarantee, and it can find funds for the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-18-m0.u145	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please prepare appropriate queries. Dear colleagues, I remind you, next week the members of the Supreme Council are working with the electorate. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday at 10 a.m. on March 1 and, as usual, there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council on Monday at 11 p.m. Thus, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck.
