ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. They registered cards in the 388 deputies’ session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! We had a statement from two factions calling for a recess to be made. Who will make the statement, Ivan Grigorovich? They have the right to take part in the evening session. Royal and Kravchuk, one and a half and Kravchuk, one and a half minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Weeks have gone by when people do not come under the walls of Parliament, people do not come who clearly show their positions that do not agree with the economic policy of power. The economic policy of power, which makes the poor poor poorer and the rich rich richer, undermines economic security and social resistance. People understand that it is only today that power can be forced into dialogue and that it is only today that Parliament can be forced into a constructive position. I want to read the address to the Ukrainian national deputies. "Recalling farmers to Ukrainian national deputies. We, farmers, private landowners, farmers, representatives of all the regions of Ukraine, are today addressing you as a people to our defenders, whom we have delegated to Parliament to represent our interests. Today, the Supreme Council practically unreservedly adopts decisions that undermine the Ukrainian economy. We are deeply concerned about the culinary support of the government's Land Market Bill by the Supreme Council Committee. This bill does not provide for the majority of our country's peasants, it does not contain amendments made by a large number of public and professional agrarian organizations. Thus, the Association of Farmers and Private Landowners of Ukraine approved the decision to start taking care of the Supreme Council on October 3rd and to make the following demands. First. Continue the moratorium on land sales. The other one. We demand that we immediately return to work, and rather, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine withdraw its 9001 bill as one that in no way regulates those who work their entire lives on the ground. Third. We demand that the agenda of the High Council meet immediately and that the draft Decree 9055 on the appointment of the All-Ukrainian referendum be approved. Four. Cancel export duties on wheat, barley and corn."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u3	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, don't let the sale of the land, because it's like selling your mother! Do not break this command. Do not make a premonition of yourselves and of all your offspring against the wrath of the nations. Participants in protests, private landowners, farmers, representatives of 26 regions of Ukraine." Dear colleagues, listen to the voice of the people today and do not provoke people to oppose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u5	Thank you. All right, time's up, three minutes, everything's up. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Take it easy. Dear colleagues, calm down! Dear colleagues! There is a request today for the Supreme Council to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We need to make this decision today, because there is an appropriate request from the President of Ukraine. The committee has considered this issue, so if you have no reservations, I ask you to consider this bill in a simplified manner. [[Registration number 0228]] Please vote. [[16:06:42]] For 197 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the government of the public shareholders association "The State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine" Udovichenko Mikolaajovic. Is it? Please, let's take this very briefly. And the co-reporter will be the first deputy head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u6	Dear Mr. President, the distinguished people's deputies of Ukraine! The Energy Efficiency Project plans to borrow $200 million from the World Bank for up to 30 years with a six-year grace period. I have the honour to submit to you a draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the guarantee agreement with the World Bank. The Energy Efficiency Project aims to improve the energy efficiency of Ukrainian enterprises, reduce the type of traditional energy in the cost structure of the real sector, with a positive impact on the environment. The project provides for the provision of investment credits to Ukrainian enterprises and utilities providers, domestic enterprises will be credited directly by Ukreximbank and through Ukrainian commercial banks. Such a project implementation scheme would cover a large number of enterprises in different sectors of the economy and regions. The project is based on State development priorities and is based on strategic objectives, economic reform programmes for 2010-2014, the State targeted energy efficiency programme until 2015 and Ukraine's energy strategy for the period up to 2030. The project aims at the economic use of energy resources, especially import resources, to improve the country's energy security. This also applies to the financial stabilization of energy industries, the promotion of energy-efficient technologies and equipment, and the strengthening of domestic fuel and energy production. Historically, Ukreximbank and the World Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u7	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I think you as a banker can learn to report clearly, clearly and clearly within two minutes. Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! On the basis of the urgency of the issue, it was, indeed, extremely necessary for Ukraine for the Committee on Foreign Affairs to consider the matter in an emergency, discussed it, and we decided that there was a point and a need to approve the ratification of the guaranteed agreement. It refers to a very pressing problem for us – energy efficiency problems. As we know, all programmes with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development are on favourable, good financial conditions for us, and they also provide enough serious control to ensure that there is no purposeless use of funds, no inefficient use of funds. This agreement foresees what will be involved in Ukraine's economy a 200 million-euro credit resource that can only be used to increase energy efficiency. We know how pressing this problem is, it's our problems in gas, coal, and so on. In this regard, we recommend ratifying the guarantee agreement, based on the objectives set out in the agreement. The main scientific and expert office also supports the ratification of the agreement. And the rest of the seconds I have left, I would like, as always, to address one topic. We have already called on the Cabinet of Ministers to have another treaty ratification signed long ago, following a social convention with Portugal, finally joined the Supreme Council. I really hope that when we take these steps to meet, in the ultra-extreme order, we are looking at the documents that are necessary today, incredibly necessary for the government, the government will finally take a step towards the Ukrainian people and finally bring this document to the President for further transmission to the Supreme Council. And with regard to this agreement, please support its ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, the committee's positive conclusion has been drawn from the draft law on ratification. The main science and expertise agency also supports positive decision-making. There is no objection to the proposal to vote on the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development? [[Registration number 0228]] Please vote. [[16:12:15]] For 299 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're going to consider a package of bills that relate to electoral legislation. The Conciliation Council discussed and supported the proposal for such a procedure. Initially, reports on all the draft laws that have been defined. If the bill is complete, the report will take 10 minutes; the answers will be in five minutes. If changes are made to the law, a summary report. After all the reports, the committee's report and the answers to the questions, then the discussion of all these bills and the vote of each project separately. So one minute, I'm going to make a suggestion. So, dear colleagues, we will be able to talk more about our own visions, the key points in electoral legislation. I would stress, therefore, that if a comprehensive bill, a report of up to 10 minutes, answers to questions to a reporter — five minutes; if amendments are proposed to the current legislation — two minutes. After the drafters' statements, give the opportunity to speak from the committee, to make their review and evaluation, and then to go to the discussion of the bill. The factions, and then the national MPs. And in conclusion, the decision-making process. I'm voting on such an offer, please support it. [[16:14:22]] For 234 Decision taken. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on the recalculation of votes]] [[Registration number 3331]] The author is the national deputy of Hennaday Zdirko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, distinguished listeners, TV setters! I am practically sure that my bill does not need a parliamentary majority, because the bill is designed to protect the results of voter elections and greatly complicates the process of falsifying and fomenting the results of the elections. My bill has been supported by the committee, and I am proud of it, but I understand that everyone who has worked at the local level in election headquarters knows how hard it is to protect the choice of citizens, how hard it is to get a district election committee to count the votes of voters in a certain election area. Of course, the scientific expertise can refer in its conclusion that the District Electoral Commissions are independent politically, impartial, that each subject of the electoral process has the right to charge the KLA's inaction with an independent court. But in our country, every citizen knows that the outcome of the election usually depends on corruption or administrative pressure in the courts, which, under the current electoral law, is easier to become an Olympic champion than to force a district electoral commission to count the voter voter votes in the constituency, that those formal requirements that exist in the electoral law do not allow for an independent court. Dear colleagues, there is no need to be afraid of expanding the voting limits at the district election committee level, as this factor will stimulate, more faithfully, the holding of possible forgers. It is the responsibility of the District Election Commission, on the basis of which the voter’s vote should be recalculated. Because there is an appeal procedure for court decisions, and no one is proposing to cancel. We should not fear that voting will take longer than a few days, but we must hurry slowly, making honest choices more important in a few days. Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u12	The People's Authority party, which I represent in the Ukrainian Parliament, insists that elections should be fair. And I hope that this is what the entire Supreme Council is interested in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, therefore, have made a report on this bill. We are now moving on to the draft Law on Election of Ukrainian National Deputies. It's a whole 2097 law. And another one: 2097. I'm paying attention to the secretariat: they registered strangely, and three months later they registered the following law to the draft law. It's an outrage. A year and three months later. Yes, Sharov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u14	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! My legislative initiative number 2097 was aimed at improving the functioning of the electoral system. But today it is obvious that the electoral system will be changed. So let me ask the high hall to take my bill off the table. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote a motion to withdraw the draft Law 2097. The author of the bill, Igor Sharov, has just made his argument. Please vote against the bill. [[16:18:52]] For 229 Taken off the record. Now to Bill 2097. The rapporteur is national deputy Zadirko. Are you gonna report him or are you gonna film him? Yes, please, Gennady Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u16	No, I will not film this bill because I think I need to do everything I can as a national deputy to ensure that there is a law in this Parliament that really protects the rights of voters and the will of the people of Ukraine. We are all, at least in public, for honest elections, for the best electoral system. But what is it, the best electoral system? My bill is based on the experience of the electoral legislation of the Republic of Poland, the result of which is supported by the European community. As a national deputy, a member of the People's Authority party, I am offered a proportional system of open regional electoral lists. After all, we all went through the times when the built power vertical operated in major districts, when in some special polling stations the number of those who took part in the vote was 100 percent of the total number of voters on the electoral list. On the other hand, everyone remembers the cat-in-the-bag system, when even Onoprian maniac could be brought to Parliament by a list. It's not just words. According to the bill, the open electoral list of parties is when a citizen votes in favour of the party at the same time, and a candidate from the same party when the candidate's seat on the electoral list, except for the first five, is determined by the electorate rather than party meetings. I would stress that the bill provides for a citizen to vote once. Of course, we can discuss the number of such regional constituencies, the electoral commission system. But these are the instruments that the state must guarantee the will of its citizens. People's Authority for the individual responsibility of each MP to the electorate. People's Power against Political Corruption. We have no right to allow the 400-year-old Ukrainian Parliament to continue to turn into a marginal laughingstock for its own people. "Responsibility is individual, collective action" is the motto of the electoral system that I have proposed. I refer to the leaders of the opposition, and I stress that today Ukraine needs one electoral law from the opposition that will be recognised by the European Commission and the Venice Commission. And you can base Law 3468 on Mr. Klukkowski, because he's already passed the Venice Commission. I call on both Mr. Arsenius Yatsenyuk and BUT, and Our Ukraine: to unite, the consolidated need the law from all opposition. Ukraine must rid itself of such a shameful phenomenon as the passing barrier to political parties, I believe. And we need to open lists of candidates for the people so that no party bosses can determine who to work for in Parliament, namely the electorate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the interviewer’s questions, if any. Names of the national MPs, please. Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u18	Dear Mr. Zdirko, you wanted to unite the opposition, I have the first question to ask you: Are you referring yourself to opposition? If so, which branches are there? From. And the second question. Yet, once you had 10 minutes, you did not draw up your bill enough. And in addition to the teaching of unity, there is nothing I have understood from what you are proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u19	The one I belong to, you can identify and see how I vote in Parliament. Secondly, if you're really interested in my bill, I think you could study it. The fact is that the time available for the speech today does not allow us to tell about the entire bill. But if you have the opportunity and the desire, I'll do it on my break.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u20	Yes. Andrew Schlell, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear reporter, well, of course it would be interesting to hear from you here and not only me, but also to all voters literally, maybe, I think, in two phrases, to indicate your bill, what it's different from what it is, and what's better than the existing Electoral Act, or what the authorities are offering. Because you've endorsed Mr. Klukkowski's bill -- it's certainly also good that you have such a consolidated position. But, nevertheless, I think it would be worth pointing out how much better your electoral bill is and what the difference is, because you can say a lot of words about what you don't need to pass a barrier, what you need to make the people determine, not the party bosses, but you want to be strengthened by the fact that you're proposing in your bill. Believe me, this will be interesting not only to me, but also to our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u22	I will explain my position why I called for the support of the Klukkowski bill. Unfortunately, the Party of Fatherland, BUIT, did not take part in the work carried out by the National MP, Catherinechuk, to ensure that the bill was consolidated. And actually 120 political parties, meeting at this meeting, supported the Klukkowski bill because it's the only bill that's passed and has the conclusions of the Venice Commission. So, really appreciating the situation, I propose that we do this to the entire Parliament. It's about my bill. What is the special feature of this bill? That's actually what we're proposing to open regional lists. The party registers its candidates, but in the process of voting for any candidate in each region, the place of any candidate shall be determined. Yes, the ballot paper will be more like a booklet, not a ballot paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u23	Andrew Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u24	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Mr. Reporter, of course, should perhaps move on to open electoral lists and, by the way, it was so apologetic, I remember a few years ago the representatives of the Party of the Regions were climbing off the skin and telling us that they were going to make direct party open lists, but they didn't. They're trying to get back to the corrupt major elections when they're winning, not the ideology, not the program, but the Greeks and the 100 bracelets for which they're going to buy the underprivileged poor voters. So I support, in principle, your ideas. But on the other hand, the question to you. If you are a left-wing person, as you declare, what do you do in most large capital, in most of the Party of Regions? Why don't you come out of this anti-national, anti-social majority?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u25	Thank you. I don't know what this has to do with the bill, but what I want to say is the principle. But what I'm trying to say is, dear colleagues. You see my vote in Parliament. And in principle, just so you understand today, according to our Constitution, there is no concept of the majority in Parliament. So actually, I didn't go anywhere, and I can't go anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u26	Upstairs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u27	Dear Gennady Alexanderovich! I have a question for you. I was also familiar with the election system in Poland. And what I'm saying is that the system of regional open lists that you're also offering us in Poland is unfortunately not giving us a mechanism today to avoid representation, greater representation. It's a regional representation. So given that we have parties, some parties are not of an all-U.S. nature, but more regional character, which means they can come out in such a way that either party will have most of the deputies, well, of course, from the east and there will be no representation at all. So, do you think you can still put some mechanisms in your project so you don't have to do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u28	Well, everyone knows that we still have a certain imbalance in Parliament today. And the representatives of one region today are exaggerating the representatives of another region, that's what everyone knows. That is why there are shortcomings in today’s bill. But as for regional open lists, I think it's the only right way. When people really choose the candidates and as the conclusion of the national MPs. And you don't have to be afraid of that. My bill foresees that a party of five, which according to the election results, will enter parliament when the three - percent barrier is overtaken, is foreseen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u29	Yes, thank you, time's up. Sit down, please. Yes, draft Law registration number 3366. No Kaskiva? So what do you want me to do? () [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, let's talk about it this way, dear colleagues. It's too late, yes, yes. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u30	3366 - coming through. 3468, Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u31	It is strange enough today to consider draft laws on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. It takes place against the backdrop of the already announced intention, both by the Head of the Supreme Council and by the leader of the majority faction, to reject, before they are heard, all the bills. It's an interesting way to think about it: I haven't read it, but I don't agree. And that shows where we go in the current mode of activity. But nevertheless, I'm going to talk about the basics of my bill, which was registered back in 2008 and represents one of the early versions, now somewhat improved in other projects, a proportional system with regional open lists. First of all, I want to point out that in electoral law there are two parts, two parts that are important. On the one hand, it's really an electoral system. And on the other hand, it's a procedural election regulation. Because it is well known that the devil is always in detail and, whatever the electoral system is, it can always be falsified. In view of this, sufficient attention should be paid to regulating the electoral process and to remember that the choice of the electoral system should, inter alia, be made on the basis of the principle that it should be least suitable for falsification. Ukrainian electoral legislation has evolved consistently enough over the first 20 years, and we've gone from a majority system through a mixed to a proportional system, and today, in principle, Ukrainian society has demonstrated a demand for further development of a proportional electoral system with the introduction of so-called preferential voting or open electoral lists. The main sign of open electoral lists is the voter's right to choose not only the entire list, but also the individual candidates on this list. This makes representation in Parliament more personalized and thus gives voters, indeed, the constitutional authority to choose not just Parliament, not just the party, but the people's deputies of Ukraine. However, the current electoral system with closed lists does not provide such a possibility. It is only possible to technologically implement open lists. you can only open the election lists by reducing the size of the circle. And so the natural solution is to move to regional constituencies. They can be different, and the bill proposes the division of Ukraine into a number equal to the number of regional constituencies. However, it was rightly observed that such regionalization of elections could lead to regionalization of parties. In this regard, the bill proposes a solution that is used in many European countries, including our neighbours, Slovaks, Czechs, Hungarians, and some other countries, which allows, apart from regional lists, the distribution of mandates at the second state level, the so - called compensation level. This is the system proposed in this bill. True, I consider the imperfection of this project, which was later removed in other projects, that the quota, that is, the number of votes needed to elect one MP, is different in this bill in different districts. As far as I'm concerned, it's not very good, but in principle, it can be adjusted to the second reading. Now for the procedure. And here I'm going to talk in the background of that bill that's not being considered today, which everybody's talking about, which has a strange status so far, but it's obviously going to appear very quickly in the Supreme Council. A so-called technical bill prepared by a working group led by the minister of justice. The fact is, both by system and by procedure, that bill, unfortunately, greatly facilitates the manipulation of election results, facilitates the possibility of abuse. So when I look at the procedural aspects of my bill, I'm going to focus on how it's proposed to avoid, or avoid, possible abuses during elections. First. Since the National Electoral Register has been established and is already functioning successfully in Ukraine, it is suggested that the voter list closes after all the details two days before the vote day, and no changes can be made. This takes away the problems of the current manipulations by the voter lists at the last minute on the day of the vote. It's different. The bill proposes to regulate the voter voting by not his electoral address. Today, it is suggested that we do so on the basis of e - mails from registering authorities. And that means that the whole process of public control of the voter lists is essentially zeroed, because no one can verify that there was an electronic message on the basis of which, say, a person was included in Kiev at the address of living in Dnipropetrovsk. Third. Some of the things that were first proposed in this bill, I'm happy to say, transposed into that technical bill that will be introduced, which most are going to support. This is especially true of the distinction between information activities in elections and campaign activities. The same is true of different levels of regulation for activities, such as news media, fact-finding, and advertising. Next position. Voting at the place. I would like to point out that in fact, some categories of voters have the right to vote for their place of residence. There are two of these categories: one of them is those who are constantly unable to move on their own, and the corresponding marks are in the voter register, and they are guaranteed this possibility; the other group is persons who are temporarily unable to move on their own. And here is the problem: Is there really such a right in the person concerned, or is there a legal fact that gives rise to a claim? The bill therefore foresees that the right to vote at home for the second category will be granted to eligible voters who will confirm their inability to move on their own temporarily. For the first time, the bill proposes to regulate the procedure for recalculation of votes in the constituency run by the District Election Commission. I want to emphasize that no law has yet established this procedure, and it is special, because it is about opening packages with documents. And in this context, I would like to stress that Bill 3331, which has been reported today, is very necessary, because it foresees an increase in confidence in the results of the elections, when by random, selective, recalculation of votes in a small number of areas you can simply remove any claim and any mistrust in the results of the vote. And the last thing I wanted to pay attention to. There is a tendency today to minimize the possibility of accusing irregularities in the electoral process. I think it's clear to everyone what this is all about: less complaints are more possibilities of impersonating elections. In this regard, the bill provides for a five - day time period of complaint, which means that documents can be obtained within a reasonable period of time and that they can be filed. I have merely outlined the basic principles of this bill. I want to emphasize once again: an important system and an important procedure. However, I am well aware that today all the bills are doomed because no one is interested in these questions today. It's important today how to create conditions to draw the results of the elections. I wouldn't want you to be successful at this, because each one of you can hit it with a ricochet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u32	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Sign up for questions. Hair, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u33	Mikhailo Kosov faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Yuri Bogdanovich, many of the normative provisions of your project are, of course, interesting and worth thinking about. But you thought it necessary to emphasize the openness of lists, the quota in different regions as a possible passage, as it were, to Parliament. It is because you know that we have regions where some political forces do not have support, but there are regions where other political forces do not have support. And so, of course, you might want to suggest what you're stressing: the quota approach. But how do you actually legitimize what it should be, from your point of view, so that it doesn't turn into a phenomenon that we've already talked about here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u34	Thank you for asking. I would very much hate for the idea of an electoral quota to be seen as a statutory quota for a particular political force in a particular region. Of course, we have nothing to do with this. The electoral quota is the number of votes needed to obtain one mandate to Parliament. And actually, I don't think it's very good when this quota is different in different regions. By the way, it's particularly sharp in a majority system where you can win an election with 80 percent support and you can have 10 percent support. That is why this is the basic disadvantage of the majority electoral system. I think we need to avoid that and make the quota equal in all regions. However, once again, I would like to emphasize that the special feature of this bill is that it allows parties that have little support in some regions, which are not enough to get a mandate in this region, not to lose votes, because they are redistributed, are aggregated at a national level and also belong to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u35	Please, Lipina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u36	Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. Yuri Bogdanovich! I want to thank you for the brilliant report and the wonderful bill. I think it's the most profoundly drafted bill that really opens up to us the new system that voters are looking for. But I also want to point out that the voters at each meeting are asking questions, is there a mechanism to call off a deputy who, in their opinion, has actually betrayed their hope, even though he is on the list of one political force or another? But they also vote for him on election lists. Is there a mechanism? Is this mechanism possible? Do you see a piece of legislation in this direction?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u37	What I mean is that today the mechanism for recalling deputies exists only in Belarus, Cuba, Laos, and Vietnam. In other states, the mandate is not resilient. And that means that voters have to be more responsible for their own voice -- not selling it for 100 bracelets, not for a built-up road, not for a sack of Greeks. And to think about how you're going to have to live under that kind of authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u38	Yes, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u39	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Yuri Bogdanovich, the Ukrainian Company has always stood in position, and there is no second in the world that the only responsibility to the electorate is political responsibility. If you are chosen, you have made a commitment to do so. If you do not do so, you will never be selected in the near future. You don't think it would be appropriate for us in Ukraine to develop a proportional system that is one of those most important bills, or a system that forms the political responsibility of the force to the electorate?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u40	Thank you. I think we just need to figure out what the nature of representation should be in the political representative body, which is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If we want to have a regional representation, then we have to move to one-maned districts, and then the electorate groups will choose a representative. But if we recognize that the Supreme Council needs political structure and what should be presented in the Supreme Council, as stated in article 36 of the Constitution, national social development programmes, it is a function of political parties. And then we come to a proportional electoral system. So I'm also a supporter of a proportional electoral system.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u41	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Time's up. Yes, now draft Law 3468. I'm sorry, the next draft of Law -4499, Mikola Catherinechuk. We'll think we'll discuss it. Let's move on. Draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies. [[concerning the implementation of a proportional electoral system with open lists of candidates in the MPs]] Igor Krill. None. Let's talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u42	I'm on my way to Brussels. I told Adam Ivanovich, he asked them to move, but he's on a mission officially in Brussels.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u43	Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on voting and election results]] Volodymyr Stretovic. Please, your report. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues and voters! The bill we have proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on Elections of National Deputies aims to inhale life into a classic constitutional principle, according to which the people are sovereign, the only source of power in Ukraine. Because he is sovereign when he has real constitutional guarantees and legal capacity to act actively and creatively, that is, when he sees in Parliament the reflection of civil society. Only in this case does the state face a citizen, not as a foreign mechanism for the management of violence and preference, but as an organic and necessary union of similar ones. The actions of such a parliament do not arouse the people’s desire to storm him, for there are his contemporaries. At the same time, the national electorate should keep in mind that he sets rules, not because he is above social processes, but because he rationalizes them through the rule of law and expresses the will of a certain union of citizens. Based on these considerations, our project envisages the election of national MPs according to a proportional system with a single national district in which political parties or blocs issue party-wide and territorial electoral lists of candidates to national MPs. This system, first of all, allows the representation of the political forces to be really proportional to the results of the will to be expressed. The second is to promote the consolidation of the political nation and take into account the principle of territorial representation of elected deputies in the higher legislative body of the State. It also makes it impossible for party lists to be drawn up only at the central level and introduces a politically personal approach to the definition of political power electors to reflect their interests in Parliament. The reduction of the electoral barrier from three to one percent is a simultaneous requirement for overcoming it in two thirds of the constituencies, as well as for greater compliance with Parliament’s election results. The project also provides for a more clear and unambiguous procedure, a procedural part of the electoral law that involves the preparation and conduct of votes, the calculation of votes, and the establishment of election results. In addition, with the downsizing of the territorial electoral commissions from 225 to 27, there is a significant reduction in the cost of the electoral campaign. The system proposed by the draft law will allow elections to be held.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u45	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u46	Allow, indeed, elections on a proportional basis, taking into account the will of the entire Ukrainian people as well as the inhabitants of a separate region, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the cities of Kiev, Sevastopol. In our view, then, the introduction of such a system will make it impossible to go to the parliament of unknown random people who have no interest in people and the needs of the regions, create objective conditions for the responsibility of national defenders to the electorate, contribute to the close association of national MPs with the electorate, and allow for a truly proportionate representation of the interests of citizens in the Supreme Council, depending on them both on party block preferences and regional interests. The proposed draft law has a strategic goal to implement the fundamental principle in practice: a people who obey the law must be their creator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u47	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, now draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[concerning the introduction of a proportional electoral system with preferences]] Reporter John the Rabbit. You won't? We're talking. Somewhere, Ivan Alexanderovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u48	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we, and this is me and my colleagues in the Ukrainian National Party, Yuri Kostenko and Jaroslav Jojik, have not made it our goal to change electoral law in a large way. Our proposals are aimed only at improving the electoral system in a direction that is not simply to be expected, but by voters, namely, in the direction of direct elections, and secondly, when the electorate forms the composition of Parliament, not the heads of parties or, for example, the oligarchy, or, for example, the criminality that is often behind these people. We suggest that we tie each candidate to a party list to a particular constituency. The bill is intended to introduce 450 constituencies and to form a final list of deputies based on the results of the elections in the districts, that is, according to the will of the electorate. What will that do? First. The opening of party lists in this way will eventually allow the constitutional right to direct elections to be realized when the electorate chooses the composition of Parliament. The other one. The electorate supports the election on an ideological program basis. At the same time, they rightly demand that they be given the right to choose their own deputies to Parliament. Voters don't want to choose MPs for open parties, they want to choose MPs for open party lists, not cats for a bag where party leaders or oligarchs put them. Our proposal implements both the right of parties to political activity and the constitutional right of citizens to direct elections of their representatives in Parliament. Thus, at our suggestion, it is the elector of one or more party programs that forms the personal composition of Parliament. Such a proposal fully implements the new desirable nature of the representative mandate. Our proposal fills the representative mandate with its natural content. Third. Our proposal opens up lists in a special way. And there may be many in view of European practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u49	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u50	Here we come from ensuring the stability of electoral legislation and ensuring the stability of practice during the electoral process. Therefore, our proposals do not require much change and extra effort in the usual work of election committees. So I propose to vote in favour of our bill. Because he eventually opens the lists, assigns every deputy to the county. And people see the man for whom they will vote and the ideological platform that this man is performing. Stop hiding behind the voters!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u51	Thank you. Thank you. When we talk about men, let's also think about women so that they also have the right to choose. Now the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on the return to the proportional election system]] Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Let's talk. This proposal also has the right to life. Dear colleagues! Now the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on the openness of electoral lists of candidates to national MPs]] Reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Sergei Petrovich Podgorny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u52	Honorable Presidency, distinguished national deputies, distinguished voters! I want to start by saying that, in my opinion, the Act on Elections of People's Deputies and all the laws that have been introduced today are more or less effective. Moreover, this law is recognized by the world community as one of the democratic, transparent mechanisms for holding elections. And the elections that took place in 2006 and 2007 also received a very high rating of all the foundations of the world that analysed these elections. Thus, when preparing changes to the law, there was only one argument that could be heard from our voters: that we choose a cat in a bag. And so the main purpose of my bill is to ensure openness and transparency in the formation of electoral lists. The bill itself proposes to open the list so that the parties or blocks from the district and district centers of the parties can come together. In addition, it is proposed that members of the panel, as far as the candidates are concerned, be placed behind areas and in these areas party organizations publish these lists in the media. In the event that a party does not publish such a list, the Central Election Commission is empowered to withdraw such a party from registration. So, I think, if the electorate knows, at the stage of the formation of another list, before the vote, which one of its areas is on the central list, and he's the only one, he can make a more or less conscious choice, for which the political power, for which the party should vote. Moreover, it is suggested that we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u53	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u54	In addition, it is suggested that the candidates on the list are different from what we now have, that the first 50 candidates are almost all Chinese, and yet with regional representation. And in that case, we're going to have MPs represented from each area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u55	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, now draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on two-round elections]] The rapporteur is national deputy Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic. Please, Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u56	Yuri Gnatkević, “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko – “The Fatherland”. Our faction and I in this faction believe we don't need to change the electoral system, leave a proportional system. The fact that we have 120 parties is a lie. In fact, we have six or seven, well, at most nine real parties. And we need not change legislation, but we need to improve whether it is through open lists or secret ballots, such as party assemblies or the development of a mechanism to prevent bourgeoisies from being placed on these lists, or a workbook, and it has not been available for years. We're being talked about the advantages of a senior. What are the advantages? That he would know his deputy. And what if he knew his deputy if there were now ten districts in the district? What can he do, this deputy? Once, under the Soviet authorities, foundations were still being broken down, ministers approached, and there was something they could ask for for their village or district. What are people doing now? People say give me a job. Can you give him a job? They say I don't have an apartment. Can you give him an apartment? He says they miscalculated the pension. Can you count his pension right? The district hospitals in my district are closing down, and I wrote dozens of letters. What, did I help them not close this hospital? I assure you, dear fellows, if there is a major again, it will be a competition not between personalities, not between people who are so powerful, not between figures and not even political ideas, but with whom the bigger bag of money is. And that's where one bourgeoisie sits. I want to tell you that we need to improve the proportional system and go this way. I'll tell you one more thing, I'm sorry that I wrote this bill, and I needed to improve the mechanism for the formation of election committees. You remember how God’s Word told you, in Kharkiv she seemed to have exactly two faithful girls on the committee, and they voted for her party, and in the end, a large grain, that is, no one voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u57	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u58	I'm proposing a system like this. The first stage. It's an election, a party vote. And the second stage is their home run in the party, and they're putting out a few candidates to vote for. And there's going to be a primar election, by the electorate. And then you can assign people, the party distributes in the districts, and people specifically vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u59	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on publicity and transparency of the electoral process is being considered. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Arsenij Petrovich Yacenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u60	Dear National Deputies! The procedure for reviewing the laws now has nothing to do with Ukrainians actually choosing Ukrainian national deputies who work for Ukraine and Ukraine. A technical task is now being set: to quickly miss all the opposition bills for the shortest period of time, the President of Ukraine passed a new electoral law. A new electoral law that has only one purpose: to obtain in an unconstitutional way through the adoption of a law that will allow for the falsification of the next parliamentary elections, just as the local elections were falsified, 300 votes in the next parliament. I want to make clear the position expressed jointly by all opposition parties at the meeting with the delegation of the Venice Commission. All the opposition parties called for the 2012 elections on the basis of a valid electoral law, on the basis of the law under which, in the sixth and seventh years, the Party of Regions received the largest faction, and on the basis of that law, which is recognized by all democratic societies as democratic and transparent. In view of this, my proposals provide for the introduction into the current law of those provisions with which President Janukovic, by the way, went to the elections. This is the introduction of openness and transparency and so - called open lists in the law. First. This law provides for a procedure for the publication of all information about candidates. The other one. The law provides for the consolidation of each member by the appropriate constituency. Third, and most important. This law provides for the possibility of recalling any national MP who is chosen by party lists on the basis of a local referendum decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u61	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u62	That is why the opposition to a meeting with the Venice Commission insists on maintaining a valid electoral system and strongly denies attempts by a valid authority to falsify the next parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u63	Dear colleagues! I now propose to you the draft Act amending article 9, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian National Deputies. [[on the establishment of a marginal age price for election to office]] Reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Mikola Leontijovich Potapchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u64	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I will begin with what has led to the drafting of the law under article 9, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on the establishment of a marginal age price for election to office]] The main reason lies in the constant complaints of voters when they meet with them regarding the selection of a large number of pensioners at different levels. The electorate simply requires that the candidates’ lists of candidates be taken into account by a proportional system. For help: Today, 27 percent of the people’s deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine are retired, almost one in three, and a large number are in the past 65 years. The bill is also based on the fulfilment of the requirements of the Ukrainian State Service Act on the borderline age of service. After all, Ukraine’s national deputies are assigned the first category, the first rank of civil servant. The work of the Ukrainian National MP requires a large part of the physical and psychological forces, and disproportionate age pressures have a negative impact on the performance of their work. On the basis of this, I propose to amend the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, by establishing the age limit for election of Ukrainian national deputies at 65 years per election day. These changes will allow younger candidates to be more actively involved in the formulation and implementation of State policies and programmes. Updating parliamentarians at the expense of younger, but at the same time formed, will give impetus to constructive and fruitful cooperation in the development of the state. In my opinion, the introduction of age censorship does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine because it does not contain a term.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u65	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u66	Thus, the adoption of the law cannot be regarded as a violation of the principle of equality. The implementation of the bill does not require amendments to other laws of Ukraine, nor does it require additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine. Finally, I strongly ask my colleagues to support my bill number 8599. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u67	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, I now ask the head of the State Building Committee, Alexander Alexandrovitch, to express the view of the committee on the matter discussed today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u68	Good day, Your Honor, good day to you people's deputies! Shortly after the committee on the National Deputy's project, Zadirko. [[No. 3331]] The committee considered the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which recommends that it be rejected. The committee considered -- and mostly by a majority of votes, it proposes to be accepted as a basis. As for Project 8599, People's Deputy Potpchuk. The committee has considered - and proposes to reject it because the Constitution of Ukraine is being violated, where citizens' rights are restricted. That is why he cannot be accepted even in the first reading. For Bills Nos. 2097, 3366, 3468, 4499, Bills 3209, 3210, 3441, 3684, 4357, 4371, 8448. Honorable national MPs, if the authors of national MPs in their own time had enough time to work on a single bill and to unite all positive, good qualities, and many flaws, the committee had not considered these bills. As head of the committee, I have a personal opinion: It is appropriate to consider them in the session room and to give each deputy my word. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u69	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. If you have any questions, please write down for three minutes. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Sergey Podgorny, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u70	Frankly, something unexpected. I was also preparing to act as chairman of the committee on electoral law. But, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I have this question for you: do you think you're a proponent of what's going on in this room right now? What even Katerinczuk's bill, I stress, which has not been discussed today, is that no one has said a word about it, which introduces the mixed system that the President proposes, most have refused to consider. Although the bill is technically twofold, it is three times higher and better than the law of Lavrinović. And today, the voting machine is going to overtake all the bills, all the right thoughts that are there, and then they're going to propose a law to which the Venice Commission has already said that returning to the mixed system is a negative, it's a step backwards. This will be the corrupt thinking of our voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u71	Thank you for asking. But, you see, I can't be responsible for the national deputy of Catherinechuk, whom I respect, and I don't have any confidence in him, not even an untrustworthy one. He's not here in the hall, and that's a question for him. And as for my position, you know, we communicate with you often on the committee and we always find the right decisions. And when I vote, I'm going to press the button as I think it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, I would ask that we be precise in the formulation. No one refused to consider the National MP’s project, including Catherineczuk. Let's be precise. And yelling all over the country for no reason, I don't think that's right. Please, Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u73	Dear Alexander Alexander, I would like, indeed, to hear from you, as head of this committee, the principle of assessing existing electoral legislation. Unfortunately, we did not hear a brief, really, analysis. And so you also seem to be cooperating and playing in that farce to clear the way to legislation, to clear the field to adopt this bill, which we only know in the press, is being drafted under the guidance of the minister of justice. This, I think, is not a principle for such an important committee as the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u74	Thank you. I want to tell you one thing. I was a member of the working group, as instructed by the Head of the Supreme Council, and not only myself, there were three national deputies. Each member of the national team has practically continued to participate in the working group. If you want to know my opinion, I've always supported a committee member, deputy head of the committee Yuri Bogdanovich. And today, once again, I have a personal opinion about the democratic choices that were and will be. When I vote, my voice will tell me what system I'm in for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u75	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u76	There is another question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u77	I understand. Well, time's up. Yeah. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Please. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Now, one minute. Oleg Zarubinsky, Upper, Gordijenko, Chechtev, Czervlenko, Cappliyenko We've got 15 minutes. And please, 18, I'm sorry. And plus the national MPs sign up. Yeah, and 25 minutes for the national MPs. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u78	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I think that the intrusion that has been heard by some of my colleagues on this issue is so pragmatic and, frankly, to some extent and mercantile. What am I allowed to say? And the fact that I'm always in the session room, and I remember very well how there hasn't been any MP for another year and a half or two who doesn't criticise the existing electoral system today, there hasn't been one. Well, bye-bye, public, be demonstrative. Obviously, then the MPs took a different position, the distributions changed, the electoral strategy changed, and everything else, but let's agree that everyone has determined that a proportional party system allows for the development, not of legislators and those who can carry out the mission of representation, but of party boards, fighters, fighters, mints, seals and so on. Maybe someone wants to camouflage, decorate, but really leave the existing system, because it's conveniently, mercantilely convenient. Because you can recruit people, because you can have sponsoring contributions to these people who are taking packs there, and you can actually run all the party leaders, party feeds, bonapartes from the local stitch, and actually run all the members of the whole faction. Obviously, that is the case. Dear colleagues, if you so take the mission of a national deputy, because of the prism of his fighting qualities, because of the prism of his bagnatism, apologize for such neologism, perhaps you should leave the system as it is. It seems to me that the real mission of a member of the national parliament is two main things: representation and legislation. And everyone says that the level of legislation, the quality of legislation today, is low. Who will carry it out? People march through columns, lined with columns under their party leaders’ bags. Well, let's continue this practice. Maybe there's a representation effect on what's with the party system today? No, he's not here. The voters don't know their deputy, they just don't know. They know who's doing a good job, they know who's making a good statement, they know who's making their opera sound, they know who's doing it. And who represents the interests of a particular district doesn't know. That's why I think it's important, my dear fellows, not to step out of the mercantile party leader's bonapartment interest, but from the point of view of implementation by the national parliament of two missions -- representation and legislation. The maximum attachment, excuse me for such a word, the attachment of the national MP to the specific electorate, to their needs, to their thirst, to their hopes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u79	Olga Bodnar of the "BUT" faction. Sergey Gordienko will be next. Sergey Gordienko? Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u80	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues! It was such a hot performance that, I don't know, I got a little confused. I mean, what do we see? Is there a party of regions or another party that should actually stand up for some democratic principles? Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The year remained until the election, and it is clear that the current authorities will try to stay in any way, let's say, the food they're feeding on now. The current law, which has been tested by the sixth, seventh year, which has been approved by the OSCE, the Council of Europe, meets international standards, according to this authority -- it doesn't. Accordingly, only the people of Ukraine will be able to adopt such principles as those laid down in the law in force today will be able to uphold democratic principles. So, and I want to say, it's very interesting. Here's a hypothetical bill that was thrown into the hall today by people's national MPs. It's like, let's say, a serious product, an intellectual product that today will just be scattered and dumped on the trash, as if it wasn't needed, because there's some hypothetical bill that will defend the interests of the party of power. The opposition takes a firm stand in this case, taking into account the situation in which Ukraine is facing, against the pro-majority election system to the Supreme Council, which is being initiated today by the government. It's because the community's interest is to preserve democracy, because today only a proportional system is able to stand up to those pieces of democracy that we can still expect to get out of the election. Practically all the bills that provide for a change to this electoral legislation, which is now included in the agenda, are noted. I'll just stop for a few. 3331 – the Zadirka People's Deputy Project. The introduction of the standards that he places there is a reason for abuse, for it will leave no response to violations of the law that have taken place in areas that have not entered the so - called ten. Whoever read this bill will understand me, I don't have much time to talk to you about everything. I'm grateful to Colleague Sarov for withdrawing his bill because it would just be a violation of the rights of voters as to the impenetrable part of the electoral list. Since I can see that there isn't much time left, I'm surprised to say that somehow none of the bills counted the gender recommendation and neither the European Union nor the same Venice Commission. The faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko stands for further improvement of the electoral system. The corresponding positive work to ensure that party lists are open is provided by Sergey Podgorny, 4357.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u81	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u82	It allows for the preservation of all efforts to improve electoral legislation and to make electoral lists of political parties transparent and understandable to voters. The Timoshenko-Fatherskina Cell Block suggests that the first reading of the project be based on Project 4357 submitted by the People's Deputy Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u83	Thank you. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u84	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Today, it has been heard from this rostrum that the people are the only source of authority. All the attention of society, all those who listen to us, is tied to the system of elections, the next elections, to the Ukrainian Parliament. People today really understand that it's about how they're going to be repeatedly squandered to get a mandate and represent their interests here in the higher legislative body. People understand that talking about a major system of proportional, mixed -- today is just a way of manipulating human consciousness. They ask us questions at the meetings: Why didn’t the majority system fit in at the time and you gave up? Let's think about how maybe some people came here to Parliament and couldn't find the national MP who represented the district. I can tell you this in detail on the examples of the Poltava region. Why did the mixed election system not fit, and why did they leave? Why aren't we talking about this here today? What are the defects of the proportional system? There are a lot of flaws, and this has been highlighted in the bills, and it is precisely today that we need to carefully note and work in order to get rid of these defects. We really understand that. What are the defects of the proportional system? I'm sorry. People today are focusing on our meetings and telling us that this is a way of uniting huge capital and administrative resources, manipulating precisely these two factors to gain power, and that is indeed the case. People understand, and I have already said this in the question that Yuri Bogdanovich asked, that there is no political responsibility, no major responsibility, no proportion. You went to the polls -- declared, came -- you didn't. That's not what you're doing! You will never have that support again in the near future. So the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support the bill that deals with improving the proportional system of elections. That is the system, the very political responsibility, the political parties and its candidates must be the main and decisive factors. And here's the thing: we're warning and we're paying attention to what society's been saying lately.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u85	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u86	political forces to play with the very electoral barriers. This is a way to form a two-party system in which only the oligarchs will have power. The company does not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u87	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u88	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Regrettably, none of the bills systematically solves four problems. The first is to ensure that the political identity of the political responsibility of a particular political force for the situation in the country is strong. One. So that there is a strong personality of a particular MP and responsibility for the situation in the district. Two. The third is the opportunity for voters to choose a specific MP in a particular territory by looking into the programme. The fourth most important is the elimination of the monopoly of parties for representation in Parliament. You see what we're doing. 46 million people, the people of Ukraine. 36 million voters. 160 or 170 parties, including where I am, my wife, my mother-in-law and my dog. There are parties like this. Of these 160 parties in the Party of Regions 1.5 million, the remaining 160 are a million members. In other words, there are 2.5 million people in parties today. And then it comes out, where's the Constitution, where's the people's state? Only 2.5 million can be under the roof of Parliament, and where are the other 33? Why do we cut off the opportunity for the unparty to be represented in Parliament? Even with the Soviet Union there was a bloc of communists and unpartisans. And the unpartisans were in power. And we're cutting off the opportunity. So let's now consider the proportional system and the electoral system in major districts. Indeed, the proportional system provides an opportunity for political responsibility that is personified. Who is responsible for the situation in the country today? We don't take responsibility. Winner: Party of regions. But personal responsibility is only when there are no blocks. Blocks are lies. Please, "Our Ukraine is self-defense." Who's in charge? Where are they today? The biggest carcases are those who betrayed Yushchenko and sailed to the Bay of Booths. These are the biggest carcasses. Where are they? Who will answer to the people? Therefore, personal responsibility only when the political party is at the polls. And allow a particular people to elect a specific MP in Parliament. Therefore, given that these issues are not systematically resolved today in any of the bills, they are of a kind, of a furry nature, of a furry solution to a particular political force, and so on, we will have here in two weeks a genuine popular draft electoral law that will systematically address four problems: the personification of party political responsibility for the situation in the country, the personization of the responsibility of a particular MP in the district, the ability of the electorate to elect a particular candidate in the deputies and, most importantly, to eliminate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u89	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u90	To eliminate the monopoly of political parties, to be represented here. We, two and a half million members of the party, are not the smartest, I think those of the 33 million are so smart, and we will give them the opportunity to move around and be represented here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u91	Thank you. Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u92	Good afternoon, dear friends! Right, Mr. Chechetov said we weren't smart ourselves, because if we were smart ourselves, we wouldn't have taken a seven-step approach to the bushmism that we were in during the period 1998-2004, when the system was mixed. What's more, we're going not just to bushmism, but to the worst version of this bushmism that Kuchma didn't even dream of. So this is obviously what we're going to do in two weeks, Mr. Chechet, this is a step backwards and this is a step towards collapse, obviously. As for those bills that we've discussed with you. Obviously, these were in most of their attempts to improve existing legislation. At the same time, it is obvious that this legislation cannot be improved by the majority but only worsened, as is the Tax Code, which they have made worse, as well as the Code of Budgets, and the judicial system. I mean, what the Party of Regions isn't getting, it's getting worse, not better. That's why the position of the faction "Our Ukraine" as well as the party of the National Movement of Ukraine, which I represent, and our allies, "BUT – "Fatherland", is not to touch the current bill, because today's bill is the bill that has been passed twice. Today's law is a law that's twice conducted fair enough elections to start a dialogue about our joining the European community as associate members, but it's still not the conversation they're having with Belarus. If we go now to change the bill in force to a bill that will be proposed by the Ministry of Justice, and in fact the President, developed by the Ministry of Justice, proposed by the President, we will obviously go back to the situation that no one will talk to us. And especially after we, with all the possible violations and abuses of power, and the bribery of voters, and the other difficulties that have been in the local elections, will be held in 2012, all those who have dreamed of some part of Ukraine's European integration can forget about it. It's those who do. I don't want to, I mean a party of regions that declares European choice, but it goes to full isolation of Ukraine, so they will, of course, be happy and, of course, now they won't vote for the bills presented. At the same time, it is obvious that they support the Presidential Bill. Dear friends, we shouldn't let that happen, so the smartest thing we can do with you is leave the current legislation on elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u93	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Fomin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u94	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, the MPs of Reforms for the Future are out of this process, we haven't started or called off any bill, we've been making proposals. Today we have a situation where we either have to leave the bill the way it is, that is, the Act in force on Elections of People's Deputies, or, if changed, change it to be much more quality. Will we accomplish that? So I'd like to pay attention to the following. All the bills that we have introduced today, which we have considered, or are partial, are not systemic and do not lead to a full replacement of 100 percent of the electoral legislation that we have today. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two national MPs from the House of Reforms for the Future - Kaplienko and Zadirko - have tabled their bill, which completely repeats the Polish electoral model with a proportionally open electoral system. But unfortunately, I don't know why it happened: The Supreme Council's apparatus didn't register our bill, maybe because we broke some terms, maybe it's our fault. But the bill did not come up for discussion today. So we have to stay out of the process. As for the problems that today are in electoral legislation. I would like to pay attention — first and foremost, the subject of the electoral process is the party. And the parties, unfortunately, only exist in Ukraine as a leader. You know, it's an angle path that we go into an angle, a deaf angle when they're following a beautiful shell, but there's nothing going on behind it. The second is the absence of a clear ideological platform. Today, Ukraine’s political parties are not demonstrating a culture in this direction, and the ideological platform is clearly not being proved. The irresponsibility of political parties when they come to power. You know it doesn't happen, but every political party, for some reason, when they're in opposition, is dumping the ashes of those in power, forgetting that they were in power yesterday, too, or vice versa. This is a system of irresponsibility that has only Ukrainian political history. Unfortunately, all these laws that we have considered today do not clean up these flaws, unfortunately. Next. A completely broken dialogue between the Ukrainian national deputy, who has already been elected, and his territory from which he left. The current system today is proportional to closed lists. Today, the MP is cut 200 percent. Fourth, the duty of party membership of the candidate. I think it should be changed, too. Why can't a party person who lives in a territory and is a leader of public opinion be a candidate just because he doesn't share party interests, sometimes very narrow? That's why we urge everyone to express themselves in their own way in support of these or other bills by voting. And either leave in peace this bill, which exists today, or adopt a new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u95	The national deputy of the Upper House, the right to speak, is handed over to him by his colleague, Fomin. Philenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u96	Your Honor, your colleagues! Here's one of the MPs who always waves like this, telling us that no bill has a systematic approach to the electoral system and the election. I want to remind you of the systemality that the majority of us have given to us in charge of the President and Lavrinovich at the time of the adoption of the Local Elections Act. Everyone remembers that these were the worst elections of all years of independence, which received the very negative assessment of all the foundations that were only possible, both in and outside the country. And we want these same people to give us the same system in the election of Ukraine’s national deputies today! What I'm saying is that this is the first time in all of our years of independence that MPs are being held here just like buttonbenders. And they're going to be asked to vote on a law that's not going to be drawn up in Parliament's walls, but it's prepared somewhere on Shevchenka's Boulevard or on some street or in Banks. This bill, which today seems to have passed the expertise of the Venice Commission, has very and very negative conclusions. You just look, it's clearly pointed out that getting back to the mixed system is a step backwards. That's the first one. The other one. It clearly states that it is only by codification that we need to move. And the second is that we have to move on open regional lists, but the authorities don't hear it, the authorities don't want it. Why doesn't she want to? Let's look at the bill they have. It says, "The Territorial Election Organization." Districts are set up for the electoral process. I have a question, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We have adopted a bill on the territorial organization of elections in our first reading. Six months ago, I told Minnesota: Why don't we bring him into the hall and take him into the second reading today so that within a month, everyone knows what constituencies we have so that everyone can prepare for these elections? No, you don't. A separate law is needed to prepare Lavrinovich, who will take effect in June or July 2012, and only the authorities know what will be the districts. The other question is the training of committee members. There is also a bill that was also adopted in this room in the first reading. You can also accept it now in your second reading. No, we're not doing that. Why? Because the CEC will now learn the necessary amount. This number will be then introduced by the Party of Regions and this number will be managed by all election commissions in Ukraine. Will this be a transparent election? No, it's not. They're going to be the election of the Party of the Regions. We will have no parliament, we will not have the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will have the Supreme Council of the Party of the Regions. So I'm proposing to the MPs today, so think about it. You're the national MPs. Look again at these bills and let me work on at least one or two projects. And that project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u97	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u98	And the project that someone's planning to do there, let them look at it for themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u99	Thank you. Thank you. [[Applause]] Philenko's handing over the right to speak to Andrew School, the "BOUT" faction. Stretovich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u100	Dear radio audiences, distinguished television audiences, distinguished bureaux, fellow MPs! So what's going on in this room right now? At first glance, it is as if we were discussing draft electoral bills. And in fact, there's a simple, absolutely symbolic scenario here for the implementation of the current power project with regard to the full usurpation of power in Parliament. That's it. It's simple and clear. And believe me, even those who do. The buttonheads from the Party of Regions are going to be pushing the pros button for the mixed election system with tears in their eyes. Because they understand which hostages are not voters, they understand the situation, and they will become today’s regime. Because there are many young deputies here, but there are plenty of those who remember the national MPs who made the records -- 18 transitions from faction to faction. It was elected in the majority district of the deputy, where the card was made up of two pages, and when he read the card, he could be calmly directed to an agency to be contacted by psychiatric doctors. But he went through the Majority District and was an absolutely obedient instrument in the hands of the then President Kuchma. And now virtually everyone without exception is going to be a tool in the hands of the Bank's Street. And you will vote for this knowingly. Another story. The election law throughout the world certainly needs to be changed and improved, but it always improves for its successors. This has been and is so in democratic countries. Unfortunately, we have a country that is not democratic, and a year before the election of the rules of the game, no one knows, and there's some mythical law called "50 by 50," which is 50 percent going to be major districts, 50 percent going to be party lists. And you know what the worst system is? It's a mixed system. This is one in which it is difficult to figure out and who will feel better about the water. And it's going to cloud the water, of course, the same bank. So, gentlemen, I would like everyone here to understand that this vote will not make you a criminal offence, because at least you're used to political things judging by criminal law, as you do with Prime Minister Timoshenko, but you'll be committing a cynical crime against your own people, if you're the law that actually went through adaptation, really fighting corruption in power and giving you the opportunity to work up to power, because you've come to power twice under this law, so you, the Party of Regions, are afraid that opposition will come to power. You have not yet dared to shoot down the opposition, but you have already dared to change the rules of the game so that the opposition will never come to power in this country again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u101	Vladimir Stretovic, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next up will be Roman Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u102	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian Democratic Union. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I want to make your point that now that we are discussing such an important issue for society, unfortunately, there is no great interest in it. Because everyone thinks the result will be legitimate. Look at how many TV cameras work. And they're not going to bring anything to their society, because it's obviously taboo to say that today we can't determine the optimum electoral system for Ukraine. I want to say that I've been in these walls since 1994, and I have to say that with every call, the composition of the deputy corps is devaluation. Starting in 1990, each of the next ones has become weaker, weaker. Obviously because the electoral system itself does not correspond to the selection of the best representatives of the people to this room. I'm not going to mention boxing matches with twisted jaws and concussions. By the way, the culprits have not been properly punished today. But it is clear that society today is so sick that in its reflection, which is Parliament, today cannot be apart from what is happening in society. Today, unfortunately, another example struck me. We got a lot of material on Tuesday. And oddly enough, dozens of our colleagues got them with a spear and dumped them in a trash can, and the girls in the break were carrying them with boxes. But it couldn't have been 10 years ago. For each MP felt it was his duty to consider what was going on, to be in the material, not to vote for the wave of his hand, not according to his own desires. I'm deeply convinced that the mixed system that we're going to introduce, that's what everyone's talking about, and I've seen this project at the meeting and the Ministry of Justice, it's going to be a step back in the political structure of society. And we're not going to get to the true party system. Because the premier administrative resource will decide for everyone. And the hard sacks, backed up in a poor country with the right arguments, will solve the issues and take up the seats in this room, and that will not be a real representation of the people. I think that the rate of the barrier that is proposed to be raised from 3 to 5 is again from the project that I saw with my own eyes is completely unreasonable and reckless. The most optimal, the most democratic, is the absence of a barrier. When the number of deputies is divided by the number of votes, it gives the right to represent the people. And that's a pretty large number of people showing up that would be democratic. And then the Head of the Supreme Council, as one who unites all, would seek compromise with all political forces. Sadly, today the authorities do not hear us. And I'm also troubled by the question that I brought from the diaspora. I was recently on a trip to Argentina, and I was asked by those who left our baby-sitter in the 30s or 40s, why there was no public language from the high-level legislature. It is obvious that a qualified sign should be introduced, as was the case in 1998, but that the President of that time said that it was necessary to speak the national language. And the last. Here some boasted a large figure of 2.5 million, so I want to tell you that in 2000, one party with a zero in the end had 460,000 members.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u103	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u104	I'm done. But when the vote was calculated, only 360,000 were found. So think, consider, for the future of Ukraine depends on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u105	So the rest was stolen. Ruslan Knazevitch, the right to speak is given to him by his colleague Tjak. Vyziewsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u106	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I'll tell you honestly, as soon as I heard about the need to change the electoral legislation of the President of Ukraine a year and a half ago, I realized that these bills that we're talking about today are doomed. I am well aware of what they were destined for, just to really clear the way for the introduction of their bill. I just thought it would be different: more noble, more filigree, more gradual. Because the bills are largely registered in 2008-2009, by honorary colleagues. No, they spent three years at the mall, no one was even talking to them, and today, one of these political breakthroughs needs to be cleaned up quickly without even discussing the details. Because who, I'm sure, 90 percent of the people sitting in this room didn't even open these bills. My dears, what is the electoral system? It is when there is a leader who is able to ensure the real will of the people, not to distort it into his own judgment, to spit in the face of the people who choose you, and indeed, for whom people vote, to give power. That bill that's going to be introduced is not an election law, which we're talking about, is a law on the appointment of deputies. And I assure you that those who think it is a law against them will not see themselves in the laws. There'll be normal specific guys there, but not exactly the ones sitting in this room, they've already discredited themselves in their eyes a long time ago. And I'm going to tell you frankly that there's actually a threat, a very fundamental one, to the principles of constitutionalism that predict the need to keep the people's will, because elections are a manifestation, it's a direct democracy. If we now allow the adoption of any law, it means, unfortunately, that further in Ukraine, the parliament is indeed at stake and threatened. You know, in most democratic countries of Europe, this is a question that's settled once and for all. Election legislation can be changed only if at least two thirds of the votes are held in the session hall. And only when there is a general political consensus of all political powers can we approach the election of national MPs. And who's going to initiate this law? President? But what does the President do before the election? Let him take care of the election by presidential law. The MPs themselves are capable of taking care of this law, as is the case worldwide. No presidents, they don't want to initiate the rules of the game for Parliament. Therefore, fellow believers, let us be wise. This law that we have, indeed, in 2006-2007 finally in 20 years has been able to properly communicate the will of the electorate to the outcome of the election. Let's improve it, let's improve it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it. But let's at least have a little respect for ourselves, because if we let this happen now, we'll never be seen here in Parliament again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u107	The National Deputy of Vizevski, the faction "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense. The next one will be George Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u108	Dear Ukrainians! On another occasion, we see how the government is trying to manipulate itself into choosing a second time and saying that it was supposed to be democratic. Again, talking about the two systems that we're talking about mostly party lists, the proportional system, and the major districts. Both systems, of course, have shown their negatives. And we have to take into account, in particular, the proportional lists, that's when leaders at closed gatherings with appropriate arrangements and contributions from previous party funds chose those who were supposed to present the party at closed gatherings. The second, the majority system, has been seen on more than one occasion by respected men coming to the county, removing the wheel from their Mercedes, turning it into sacks of Greek, and in this way they also became national deputies. That is, when we come to the thought of how some propose to unite those two bills, then, and the worst part, what is involved in electing MPs at closed party assemblies, and people, citizens, have nothing to do with it. And the second is when the guys with the cool cars come and buy the districts. They will be united in one. Two worse choices in one. And when we talk about open party regional lists, we have the opportunity to get as much of one and the other positive out of those two systems as possible and to propose to the electorate. And in this way, through the social elevators, we invite society to come to power with a new face. That would restore democracy to political power, that would allow the electorate and the electorate to know who his electorate is. Because first of all, the regional constituency, which is going to be, let's say, in the parameters of the area, so quickly one kid won't come and the whole area won't buy. This time. But the electorate will know and be able to vote for who actually comes and works in this constituency. The other one. An open party list will not allow a leader for any case to conduct one or another candidate, because any candidate will have to come to the district and look into the eyes of the electorate, and more to report if he was a national MP, what he stressed and how he was running at the previous compositions of parliament. It is also an opportunity to form an active political force, and in this way to bring order in some not entirely democratic parties that offer nondemocratic lists at closed assemblies. So I think Yuri Klukkowski's bill would be the right thing to do. [[3468]] But if no bill can be taken as a basis, I suggest that the first two bills be re-directed: 3468 and 3366, which are very close to the ground, and based on them to direct open party lists for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u109	Yuri Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u110	A colleague of Oleg Zarubinsky expressed the faction’s position, and I give the word to Yuri Alexandrovich Baldwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u111	Yuri Baldirev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u112	Dear Presidium! Dear colleagues! We have been discussing this issue since 1997, because in the second assembly, the then deputies, having lost contact with the voters, had decided to change the electoral law in order to make it easier for them to enter parliament. This was the way the newspapers wrote, and many of you who fought to enter parliament supported and shared that view. I can bring in, I don't want to hear a line, but I could bring in the names of those deputies who said so back then in 1997. Years went by, the electoral system changed, and there were criticisms every time. So, in summing up all our suffering, I can tell you that no electoral system is better than any other. Because if the electoral system were perfect, it would appear that all democratic countries would have accepted it long ago. But in fact, we see, in France, the majority system, in Germany -- proportional, in the United States -- is actually two-party, because the participation of the rest of the parties is purely formal. Let's see what we get when we keep the current, purely proportional system. I think it's going to be clear to everyone that we're going to have a two-party American system, and that's why we're going to have the Party of the Regions and the Fatherland, and that's it. That's enough to raise the threshold, let's say, to 6-7 percent. And then, apparently, those who want us to have an American model of power here will be happy. But, gentlemen, you're all, in fact, from this rostrum, saying that we need a democratic North European Scandinavian model, that only Scandinavian countries have the bright ideals that are close to the Ukrainian people. So it seems that a relatively clean, high-level proportional system is not in your best interest. Why are you so devious? That's why she's going back to a clean cheerleader. Remember 1990-1994, there was also a lot of criticism on this subject, and it also seemed to everyone that the system was not perfect. Remember, they have put in place a mixed system to build a democratic society so that parties that will be accountable to the people will appear. Remember all this rhetoric, gentlemen! Krilov has such a wonderful fairy tale, "The Musicians." And it ends with the phrase, "And you friends don't sit down, you don't fit in the musicians." That's why this fairy tale about you, and we, the Party of the Regions, will win any electoral system, and you will have power.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u113	The word is given by Yuri Gnatkević, the faction of "BUT is "The Fatherland". Get ready for Jacinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u114	Dear colleagues! I want to remind my colleague Yuri Baldwin that in that case our Supreme Council will be like a big cancer, because back only cancers will creep. I, colleagues, will tell you that I've just been criticized for using the word bourgeoisie. Sometimes I'm in our faction. They're calling it in. They say "oligarhat." Well, let's have an oligarhat. So I want to say again that this is going to be a money bag competition, and this is not going to be a bourgeoisie, it's going to be an oligarch or their lacquer, and it's going to be true. But it seems to me that it's just for the oligarchs and lacquers to sit here, and it's an offer to go back like cancer. I want to remind you of one example. Leonid Kravchuk is my countryman, and I often meet him, and we met last Saturday. I was an MP for the first time, and when Kravczuk Kuchum's election came from all 26 districts, results came from elections, protocols. And of one, guess from which, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't. We didn't know they didn't know the arithmetic. We thought there were people who were literate, I really thought there was no counterfeiting for Communists. It wasn't! I paid five rubles in the first election and became a member of the Supreme Council in Kiev. So, I saw Kravchuk and I said, "Leonid Danilovich, did you know that counterfeiting was coming? "But," he says, "I knew I was told how urns change as protocols copy." I say, "Why did you keep your mouth shut?".. And he says, "What's the point?".. "So turn to power!".. "So power," she says, "that's what she did." I say, "Yes, Minister of the Interior." And he says, "And the minister of the interior "put it in his pants" and hid, and I can't find it.".. I don't think today's going to be scary, but it's going to be controlling this process. I'm told that my two-round system of proportional choices is too expensive. And what did you, dear colleagues, want to buy democracy at a cheap price, that's how it works? You know, there's a Russian saying, "What's cheap is rotten and what's expensive is sweet." Let's go back like crabs, and democracy will rot forever. And I'm also surprised that the Venice Commission, which did the expertise to this bill, saw small fleas there, medium fleas. And the biggest flea that jumps wide into dictatorship is fleas, as the commission forms. Because now it's not just how they count, it's who's counting and where, it's who's writing the protocols. So I, my esteemed colleagues, suggest that we improve it rather than touch the old system. And my option is to think of it as one way of improving it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u115	Arsenius Yatsenuk. None. Please, Oleg Lazko. Dear colleagues, let us continue the evening session until the conclusion of this consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u116	Before 15 minutes, we'll finish the final performance. Well, please, dear colleagues, for 15 minutes. All right, that's it. Please, Oleg Lazko, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u117	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. The election system proposed by the Party of Regions is aimed at falsifying the results of the elections, assigning deputies to the osseda. And not the fact that you're sitting here, so don't smile. I'll give you an example of my native Montenegrin. Seven districts have been assigned candidates since the Party of the Regions. Personally, the governor rides, gathers the heads of the administration, introduces candidates to the deputies and those who never knew where the Montenegrins were, they're already there, and they're telling them they're going to be deputies. I'm talking about one of the first carcases out there today. So it's power today. There's no election, the governor, the heads of the administration are personally driving, they're campaigning for these candidates. This is the kind of election that today's authorities want to make for our people. You're playing! You're assigning yourself today, they'll get you out of here tomorrow. So you don't have to do this for long. I'll tell you what people want. But you don't go to the people, to the regionals, to the authorities, but you fear them like fire, because they will carry you out. And that's why I go to them instead of you, and I'm going to tell you what people want. I was in Boguslav today. Thousands of people came to the rally and told you their indignation. On Saturdays, there were about one and a half thousand people in the Rocky Kyiv area, and none of you were there, and I was there. Yeah, well, I'm telling people's wishes. A maximum of 150 members of the Supreme Council, 450 — half the Tunisian — nobody needs to be here. You're sitting there, and you're eating millions of people, and half of the laws haven't written, and you want to be deputies. Two: To ban pensioners from going to the Supreme Council, to free young people's seats, nothing to sit here, go baby-sit your grandchildren. Third, one person is to be elected no more than twice as an MP, or you sit here, just ahead of the legs you can get out of here. So no more than twice. Next, the term of office of deputies is no more than three years, or in five years, you've been mossing and doing nothing. Next. The mechanism for calling off MPs is mandatory. They don't want to sit around laughing at people. You lie before the elections, you don't keep your promises, you call them off, and you drive them out of here with a bad broom! And what the people asked you to do, the reverend regions. You say you're up to five, you're up to seven. But you let it go, because you can't even break the barrier! And with that policy you're running in the country today! So I'm telling you on behalf of millions of Ukrainian citizens, changing the election system to the one you want, we won't give it to you! And if you do, people will get you out of here! He's telling you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m1.u118	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues! We have completed our consideration of the matter. I'm just talking. Dear colleagues! I address and beg the national deputies to work at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Do not hold meetings or take people away from work. And the second. Dear colleagues! I strongly support the proposal to introduce a rule -- no more than two terms in a row and count two terms that have already been and no longer to be posted. Yeah. Dear colleagues! We need to move on to making a decision. At the same time, dear fellows, let's agree with one thing: Attention, please! - that we had a prelude to a serious and peaceful conversation, which would not turn into a political campaign for the purpose of adopting the law, that we would have a dialogue and try to find a compromise, not to blame each other. We are all responsible for what is happening, to a greater or lesser extent, but all of us. What should be the law? Clearly, the law is a concentrated policy. And every political power, as they rightly said, would like to get a preference, taking into account the state in which it is or to enforce the law. For us, dear colleagues, not so much a law as it will be an electoral system. Because they all suffer from weaknesses, electoral systems. Ideally, I think the electoral system is major, and if it's a compromise, it's a party rise. So we want things to be normal and so we care about people, about their perspective, let's vote on this law. But no, I understand that there is no desire to vote, and then we all have to answer and report to people what we have done. Let's once, dear fellows, put once in front of the country and then the parties. And we're the parties, and then the country. And you don't. I don't want it to be. Let's have a dialogue, my dear fellows, because if we get out of these one-and-a-half bills, we don't have a more balanced one. They're diametrically opposite. So once again, let's, after we go to the debate or the second reading, if one of the bills is adopted, or next, we'll have a discussion first. The pro-and-again arguments. The system is proportional: pros and cons, mixed pros and cons, different pros and cons. And the main thing for us is that the elections take place so that people can make a choice. So people don't make choices for us, they make choices. That's why. I'm telling all of us. I think we should listen to each other, but I'm listening. I'm taking stock of the question. And I suggest normal dialogue and discussion. Roman! Dear colleagues! You lost your chance to keep your mouth shut. So I'm going to put these issues to a vote. I treat you all humanly. The sooner you opened the door with your back, and now the better you treated you, the worse you reacted. Dear colleagues! I'm going to put bills in turn to take them as a basis. I am the first to introduce the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on the recalculation of votes]] The author is Gennady the Bull. Please identify yourself. [[18:04:54]] For-25 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the bill "On Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies." This is number 2097, also reported by Gennady Zdirko, this is a whole bill on the adoption of it as a basis. [[18:05:31]] For-24 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the draft law on Elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by Kaskov. [[Registration number 3366]] We were discussing it, and we were discussing all the bills that the committee head was talking about. Please be sure. [[18:06:06]] For-25 Colleague Volodymyr Stretovic said that they were handing out documents, and they all dropped them later. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! They've been on the committee for a year and a half. Dear colleagues! Please! Now I'm putting to the vote the bill "On Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies". Author Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski. Please vote. [[18:06:56]] For-143 The decision is not taken. The next, honourable colleagues, is the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies for adoption. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 4499]] The author is Mikola Catherinechuk. [[18:07:27]] For -6 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[concerning the implementation of a proportional electoral system with open lists of candidates in the MPs]] [[Registration number 3209]] Author of Ukrainian National Deputy Igor School I'm sorry, Igor Krill, I'm sorry again. [[18:08:17]] For-23 The decision is not taken. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, by Stretovich Vladimir Mikolajovic. [[on voting and election results]] [[Registration number 3210]] [[18:08:51]] For-48 The decision is not taken. A motion for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, by Ivan Alexandrovich Rabbit [[concerning the introduction of a proportional electoral system with preferences]] [[Registration number 3441]] [[18:09:28]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies. [[on the return to the proportional election system]] Registration number 3684, by Moysik Volodymir Romanovich. Support, support your colleague. [[18:10:08]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies. [[on the openness of electoral lists of candidates to national MPs]] Registration number 4357, author of Sergey Podgorny. [[18:10:46]] For-94 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on two-round elections]] Registration number 7341, by Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic. [[18.11:19]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the publicity and transparency of the electoral process. [[Registration number 8448]] [[author - Arsenij Yatsenuk]] [[18:11:55]] For-34 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 9, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian National Deputies on the establishment of a threshold age price for election to office. [[author – Potpchuk Mikola Leontijovich]] [[Registration number 8599]] [[18:12:36]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, therefore, received the most votes in draft registration number 3468 – 143 votes. Other bills have no more or less tangible support. So in order to preserve the purity of our decisions, I will put to the vote a motion to re-read the draft Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[author - Yuri Klukkowski]] [[Registration number 3468]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:13:26]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Thus, honourable colleagues, the bill is rejected. The factions? Please. Region Party 2, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 60, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 46, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, "The People's Party – 0, non-factional – 5. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we will continue our plenary work from 10 a.m. to Wednesday, October 5.
