ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[15:59:27]] There are 401 people’s deputies ’ card registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, we will begin the session by considering the issues that we have brought into the agenda today and the committees are ready to report. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 is being complied with. [[on the stability of the aviation complex]] [[Registration number 9228]] The author of the bill, Kozub Alexander Andriyovich, suggests that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[16:00:52]] For 203 Offer supported. Please, Kozub. And prepare Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! Ukraine is an aviation state known all over the world. The President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, has made great efforts to revive the domestic aviation industry. The airline is referred to as the priority sectors of Ukraine’s economy. During the first half of this year, there was a significant increase in manufacturing and science and technology, in the number of jobs, in the airline complex. However, the implementation of the 2011 strained science and technology programme, the preservation of the pace of growth achieved under threat of collapse as a result of the failure of enterprises with their own circulation costs, whose deficit is estimated to be about 200 million dollars. It is necessary to create production units for 2012, which are planned by state-owned companies: Antonov, Kharkiv State Aviation Company and State Enterprise 410 Civil Aviation, to release 21 aircraft, to repair and modernize 15 AN-32 aircraft, to deliver aggregates and machine kits to the Russian Federation, Iran, India to repair and modernize airplanes. In the science and technology field, the most relevant is the creation of AN-168, AN-178, the completion of the work on the development of an operational tactical military-transport aircraft, AN-70. Given that there are three months left by the end of this year, the problem can be solved by providing State support to businesses through the mechanism for completing their statutory funds. The source of additional public budget expenditure is proposed to determine the increase in the amount of income tax on the income of enterprises. In January-August 2011, they planned income tax rates.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u3	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u4	The changes proposed by the draft law to the State Budget will allow for increased circulation costs for aviation companies and the current issues of their manufacturing activities. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u5	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u6	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! The Budget Committee of its October 4th session considered the bill, proposing an increase of 200.8 million dollars in the expenditure of the State Budget General Fund to the Agency for the administration of State corporate rights and property under the budget programme to replenish state-owned industry statutory funds. The additional expenditure of the State budget is proposed to be compensated by an increase in the amount of corporate income tax. It should be noted that the draft law does not take into account changes in government budget income and expenditure in accordance with the State Budget Act for this year on the payment of wages to miners, adopted by the Supreme Council on September 22 and directed towards the signature of the President. In particular, this law has already increased the projected amount of income tax by 1 billion dollars. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council's Apparatus, in its conclusion, comments on the bill. Therefore, if this bill is supported, it will need to adjust the overall figures of the State Budget in the text of the bill, as well as Appendices 1 and 2 of the Bills, by placing them in accordance with the structure of Appendices 1 and 3 of the State Budget Act for 2011. This adjustment should be made in accordance with the current edition of the State Budget Act 2011 taking into account the changes made by law adopted by the Supreme Council on September 22, which was submitted to the President for signature. The Committee decided to recommend Bill 9228 to the Supreme Council as a result of its first reading review of the adoption as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the proposals put forward by the Committee on Budget Issues before the bill. In view of the above, the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, needs to make appropriate submissions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u7	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u8	Relevant clarifications should be made to the text and to the additions to the bill if it is adopted upon signature by the Head of the Supreme Council. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u9	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Sign up. Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, Ukraine is known to be one of six countries in the world that can design, design, and manufacture airplanes and spacecraft in a complete cycle. Taking into account the specific features of the aircraft industry's operation, such as the long-term production cycle and the accumulation of capital investments, the large number of counterparties in all countries of the world are aircraft-building, such as the automotive sector, under strict government control and state aid. As a result of many industrial enterprises — metallurgical, mechanical, radio-electronic, electrotechnical, chemical — airplane construction now employs hundreds of thousands of people. My colleagues, once again, it's not about iron, it's about probably our last high-tech bastion -- aircraft building. And this is a bill that colleagues make that concerns three state-owned enterprises: Antonova, Kharkivsky and 410th. The steady work of the aviation industry thus creates preconditions for the preservation and development of a range of high-tech industries, taking into account the great length and complexity of the technological chains that were formed in the process of modern aviation technology. And last of all, about the money. The changes that are now being made will allow the transition period 2011 - 2012 to complete the cycle of aircraft manufacturing that has already been ordered in the world. And in 2011-2012, airprom will increase its annual output by 11 billion 270 million dollars, which will increase its budget by the 12th year of the aviation sector by 2.4 times. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u11	Yes, please, who do we have? Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u12	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko This law is absolutely necessary, for Ukraine’s industry, as has been said, has virtually lost its many industries. But the aviation complex was, and is still alive, working. Our active position in the world aviation trade has proved to be that we were able to sell Iran's aircraft complex on very favourable terms, to cooperate with the Siangese airline in China, to actively repair airplanes that were previously sold in India, Pakistan, and other countries. And that's why this sector is absolutely necessary today. Sadly, she lost much. During this period, she lost her human potential when the factory fell sharply, in aviation Kiev, to others, the number of workers dropped. I want to tell you that for the first time, the government of Julia Timoshenko has given serious attention to this area. You know that's where real investment came in first. And thank God that they continue today because a good thing has begun and must continue. That's what can get us to a new world level today. Because there are serial factories in Ukraine, three of them. I would expand the operation of this law: to the motor assembly that we have, to the enterprises that provide other materials, composite materials, aluminum, and so forth. Once again, the level could be reached. And at the Conotope Helicopter Repair Plant, as well as at the oak factory. So today, really, by keeping ourselves in that small number of states in the world that are building airplanes, we could continue to lead in heavy aviation and other fields today. So I ask you, dear friends, no matter what, to support this bill. Aviators need support, and this is the support of the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u13	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, I think we should support the conclusion of the committee, which proposes changes to the budget, and the budget year is almost over. For us to adopt it immediately, finally as a law, because everyone speaking from different political powers said the same thing and that the law was necessary. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the Amendment Act of Ukraine on the 2011 State Budget of Ukraine, taking into account the budget committee's proposals. [[on the stability of the aviation complex]] [[Registration number 9228]] Please vote. [[16:12:08]] For 334 The law was passed taking into account the committee’s proposals. I mean, in preparing for the signature, I'd like you to do as the legal board and the committee of profile suggests. Dear colleagues, we need to include in the agenda of the daily session a bill number 9239 on the approval of the rates of export expert duties on individual agricultural crops. This is primarily about grain crops. Please vote. [[16:12:58]] For 259. We've included in the agenda of the day session a bill to approve the rates of export expert duty on certain types of agricultural crops, where language goes, including what is now enough and painful enough and baking – about expert duties on grain crops. I'm asking for a profile committee, and we have a profile committee of the Homutinnik Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, to hold a committee meeting so that we can consider this bill tomorrow. We are considering the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the conduct by international experts of checks on the activities of state banks, public compulsory social insurance funds, external and internal borrowings]] [[Bill number 9234]] The author of the bill, Melnik Peter Volodymyrovich, suggests that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[16:14:29]] For 217 Offer supported. Please, Peter Volodymyrovich. Prepare Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u14	Peter Melnik, Party of Regions. Dear Adam Ivanovichou, distinguished colleagues! The bill provides for amendments to Appendix 3 of the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 to the State Budget Act on Ukraine 2001 which is proposed in the title of the budget programme of the Ministry of Finance under code 3505040 of the International Audit of State Banks, the efficiency of the use of State funds during the capitalisation of banks, the verification of the financial and economic activities of the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment, the Social Insurance Fund from accidents in production and occupational diseases, the Fund for the mandatory public social insurance in case of unemployment, the implementation of external and domestic borrowings, the word "international audit" replace the words "international experts in the review of activities". The term "international audit" is not defined by law. As a result, it is not clear which foreign or international institutions, organizations have the authority to carry out an international audit, which document should have an appropriate institution, which forms of control can be applied? [[certificate]] [[organization]] In addition, last year, in order to implement Cabinet Order No. 334 of 5 May, some questions were carried out to verify the efficiency of the use of budget funds by their administrators in 2008-2009 and the first quarter of 2010 by experts to verify the efficiency of the use of budget funds by their administrators. In doing so, not only was the form of verification used, but a whole set of forms and methods of verification, including financial investigations, legal follow-up of investigations, and so forth. The refinement of the program will allow for a comprehensive verification of the activities of the objects by applying all forms and methods of control.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u15	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u16	both financial institutions and state-wide non-budgetary social insurance funds. Taking into account this, a problem has arisen in clarifying the name of the budget programme, which provides for an increase in the corresponding measures. The implementation of the bill will have no impact on the income and expenditure of the state budget. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u17	Please, Baranov Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft budget committee was discussed at its meeting on October 4, this year. The legislative proposal is to clarify the name of the budget programme, with the Ministry of Finance as the main manager. And execution is provided by a state financial inspection. The implementation of the proposed proposals will allow for the expansion of the forms and methods of carrying out control measures to verify the activities of state banks recapitalised with State budget funds and the activities of the public compulsory social insurance funds, namely, to involve international inspectors in the control measures. The bill has no budgetary implications. However, it should be noted that article 1 of the bill requires drafting, according to budgetary terminology. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council's Apparatus notes that it is necessary to draw the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers on this bill. According to Bill No. 9234, the Committee on Budget Issues decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the bill as a basis, and generally as a law that takes account of the clarifications made in the submission of the Committee on Budget Affairs to the Supreme Council on the bill. In view of the above, should the bill be adopted, we ask the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, to make appropriate editorial clarifications to the bill when it is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Please, Argewityn Stanislav. Dear colleagues, don't say no to Arjevetin, he's a doctor of economic science, man knows what to say. Please. That's all. It's a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, at first glance, it seems to me that this is a technical kind of bill -- a change of one formulation to another. But actually, if you look at it essentially, it's, now I'll say, it's carrying a little bit of a different load. And given that the author proposed one option, the committee is editing the second, the scientific and expert board is formulating the third version, and finally, there is no conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers, which should have made its own conclusion. I have the impression that before the second reading, maybe change this bill a little bit in essence to involve and spend no more than government spending this year than 60 million on international organisations. Because international auditing is not always necessary. If we have 17 government financial institutions today, including 6 state banks. I don't want to bring in some banks, but some government banks don't even have a consolidated balance sheet. Some transactions are performed on paper media. This indicates that there is nothing to do with international auditing. Because they don't accept such standards. So I don't think this bill can be adopted in the first reading until the second reading. For the second reading, we probably need to think about it and give it an opportunity to do the audit, we have the Audit Office, the Court of Auditors, the National Bank, maybe it's better for us to pay the authorities that can do the audit, and leave the international audit only in case we have to do, for example, sell the state bank, here without an international audit. So my proposal is not to accept it as a whole, but to think about the second reading, it's possible to divide the payments into Ukrainian and foreign payments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u21	Thank you. Georgi Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u22	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, well, if we're talking about technical issues in our legislation, that one word should be replaced by another, because it doesn't correspond to one logic or another, then, in principle, a warning could not be put into this bill. But I, like the previous speaker, have a point. And please tell me, can't we handle this job that we need to involve foreign professionals in order to check our state institutions? What, then, does our KRU do? What, then, does our House of Accounts do? Then what does financial monitoring do? What, then, do our oversight boards in these banks, including national deputies and other government officials? And then what do other law enforcement agencies do with us? And at the end of the day, how do we survive in such a way that we don't trust these state institutions with funds or not having enough education? Then let us teach these people to be able to do this work. Well, you should not humiliate yourself and your state and those bodies that function and deal effectively with financial governance in our country. They are, in my opinion, capable of doing this work. Otherwise, if there's a question where they're standing. Bilateral international relations, financial parts, where joint working groups are formed, I don't deny that any of them are speaking and the state is spending money. But I'm surprised why we have to involve financial experts at the expense of the state to test our state institutions. I propose that after the conclusion is reached, the Cabinet of Ministers and, in particular, the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for this area of activity, should only then adopt this law as a whole. In the first reading you can accept, get conclusions, listen to this point of view of these institutions, which I called leaders here at the adoption of laws. And then we can deliberately vote or not vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u23	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, we've lost our minds here. The Professional Committee suggests that the Committee should also be based on the Committee’s proposals as a whole. The MPs who participated in the discussion were unanimous in that they could only be accepted in the first reading. So I'm going to make a first-reading proposal first. And then there'll be a session room to determine. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending Appendix N 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. [[on the conduct by international experts of checks on the activities of state banks, public compulsory social insurance funds, external and internal borrowings]] Registration number 9234. Please vote. [[16:25:19]] For 267 Thank you. Dear colleagues, there was an offer for the committee to accept in general. There's a denial. Then I put another proposal to the vote. Shorten to 7 days of drafting the bill for second reading. Please vote. I'm right. [[16:25:52]] For 248 A decision has been made to halve the draft bill into seven days for the second reading. I'm asking the profile committee to take this to arms. Dear colleagues, we have included in the agenda, we need to consider Bill No. 9151, draft Act amending some of the legislative acts on the Supreme Court of Ukraine. There's a suggestion that, as the author of the bill, the Coasta would like to consider this law in a simplified manner, please support. [[16:26:53]] For 221
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u24	"To" is 221. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Irina Grigorovna Coasta. The Coroner is the head of the Justice Committee's subcommittee, Dmitri Špenov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u25	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I have the honour to present to you the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts on the Supreme Court of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9151]] The need for the adoption of this bill is based on the need to improve the individual rules of the current legislation of Ukraine, which define the status and authority of the Supreme Court of Ukraine as the highest judicial authority in the system of courts of general jurisdiction. It is with the aim of improving the existing process of handling cases, improving the effectiveness of the Supreme Court of Ukraine's functions and increasing the role of its decisions in the system of decisions of all courts of general jurisdiction that a number of amendments are proposed to Ukraine's procedural codes and Ukraine's Judicial and Judicial Status Act. The bill aims to improve the procedure for handling cases by the Supreme Court of Ukraine and aims to improve its activities as the highest judicial body. I would like to point out that, in its opinion of 588 of 18 October 2010 on the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, the Venice Commission noted the need to extend the competence of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the need to improve the procedure for dealing with cases before the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The bill is intended to address a number of issues related to the activities of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. In particular, it provides for the Supreme Court's mandate to review cases to make a new decision, which will be subject to mandatory publication on the official website of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. It is the duty of the judge to use the Supreme Court of Ukraine’s rulings on the application of the rule and the law. Changes in order will also be reviewed by a panel of judges from the relevant Chamber and, in the cases defined by the procedural law, by a joint meeting of the Chambers or by the entire composition of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The bill also proposes that the Houses be reinstated and that the Supreme Court of Ukraine increase the number of judges to 48. The bill also identifies the mechanisms for dealing with cases that have now accumulated in the Supreme Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u26	Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u27	These positions will certainly contribute to the maintenance of the terms of the case and will ensure the judicial protection of the rights and interests of Ukrainian citizens at an appropriate level. Therefore, on the basis of the above, I ask you to support the above-mentioned bill and to adopt it as a basis in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u28	Coroner is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee, Spanov Dmitry Juriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u29	The bill proposes to make comprehensive changes to all procedural codes, to the Laws on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges and to the Law on Access to Judgement. Basic plus bill: he proposes compromise on the current issue of the status and authority of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The bill takes into account many proposals in this regard to the members of our committee, other people's deputies, judges and the President of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The need to enhance the competence of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and improve the handling of cases was also discussed in its opinion by the Venice Commission. In particular, it is proposed to increase the number of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to 48, to resume the activities of the Trial Chambers in four specializations, to restore to the Supreme Court the right to take new decisions, to make it mandatory for the rest of the courts to order the Supreme Court to apply substantive law correctly. The bill also amends the procedural rules of the Codes of Review of the Supreme Court, as well as the mechanism for dealing with cases that have accumulated before the Supreme Court. The Justice Committee considered the bill at its meeting yesterday, 5 October, and unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u30	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Roman Tjak, "Our Ukraine" faction. Oleg Lazko is non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u31	Thank you very much, Your Honor's colleague, for the opportunity to speak. Dear colleagues, here is a colleague of Spenov reporting that the bill provides for complex decisions on the activities of the Supreme Court. That's absolutely right, an extremely serious bill. And how do you view it? In two minutes you will consider the functioning of the judicial system of authority. Once upon a time, a year ago, you told us about judicial reform, took away everything that could have been taken away from the Supreme Court. Maybe they did what they took. But you've taken such a cavalry jump, and today you're coming back in the same way, obviously for political reasons. Obviously, those 48 judges that you hope will be in the Supreme Court are being properly processed. It's a good thing you're returning these rights to the Supreme Court, because otherwise the question is, why does this Supreme Court exist, if it doesn't have any effect, it doesn't decide anything like an English queen, and why does it cost a lot of money to tax payers. And in a country where millions of people get married, there is nothing to feed their children, what to support their families, we still have dozens of judges with tens of thousands of wages, pensions, aids, and so forth. That's why I'm backing up the offer, restoring my rights to the Supreme Court. We should pay due respect, and the authorities have understood the need for the full functioning of the Supreme Court, but at the same time, I strongly condemn the propaganda and the "foolishness" that you are here, the representatives of the authorities, demonstrating during the consideration of these important issues. In the Supreme Court, which is the last instance, the fate of the people is decided. And when you give the Supreme Court such authority, why is there no Supreme Court Head on this high court? Why is there no high - ranking representative of Kiwalov on this high court to report his position on this matter? And in two minutes, you decide the fate of the country. I definitely don't agree with that. I think the citizens understand what you've turned into a parliament -- buttoncadaves and propaganda -- and these decisions are taken behind the walls of Parliament. It's a disgrace to Parliament!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, I see that Irina Grigorovna, she has been a professionally and responsibly involved in this bill. Who doesn't care? Yes, Your Honor, the People's Deputy Pisarczuk, the faction of the Party of the Regions, then Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u33	Vladimir Mikhailovich, get Koleschenko out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u34	Kolechenko, please, microphone, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u35	Dear colleagues! A faction of Party regions, Koleschenko Vadim. We are now introducing, indeed, a very important and substantial bill, amending the previous law relating to the reform of the judicial system. I will remind you, as a representative of the Justice Committee, that in recent years we have practically had no interaction with the President of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court as such. If previously, 5-6-7 years ago, the Supreme Court has systematically worked with the Justice Committee, we have jointly considered some of the bills, and in the end, when we prepared this bill, which we are adjusting today, there was absolutely no understanding and there was nothing that could be done. And today, when we began to prepare adjustments, we have already begun working with the real ones, with the representatives of the Supreme Court. There has been constructive conversation and constructive work is under way. This is the positive that we see today in cooperation with Parliament. And I believe that by supporting the proposal made by the Justice Committee, we will, first of all, intensify the work aimed at improving the quality and confidence of justice, and most importantly, give justice real active instruments for the protection and law and human rights. Because what is a sin to hide, to this day we have serious problems in the justice system, underfunding, sometimes general criticism, criticism, of course, with regard to the justice system, and it must be present. However, to be honest and frank, in the past year, the work of the courts has undergone serious and real changes, and four specialized courts have been formed and are active. The quality of the judges'work has improved and the time for judicial decisions has already decreased. I therefore propose to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u36	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u37	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Reform and Order Party. Dear friends and all who listen to us and those who sit in this room! We certainly understand that the recent manipulation of the judicial system is purely political. What are we talking about? In preparation for the trial of Julia Timoshenko, five changes were made in the functioning of the courts. You know, you were deprived of college courts at the first instance. So the national so-called jurors have disappeared from the legislature, so the one-man Koreans are starting to make completely wrong and illegal decisions, and they're getting away with it. There is no such thing as collegiality. The second thing that's been done is that the jury is actually the court that's in the Constitution that's broken down because they can only deal with cases that are related to murder and that kind of thing, and others don't. In this way again, there will be one - way decisions at this stage. A changed system, which refers to the time period of familiarity with the case in the judicial investigation and in the judicial investigation. That is, the investigator or judge already defines completely worthless terms, as was given to Julia Timoshenko to familiarize herself with dozens of volumes of cases that were fabricated. It also changed the structure of the judicial system, where the Supreme Court is deprived of any function, and the focal point, which was the Supreme Court, has turned into a court that is just waiting to allow one of the Supreme or Administrative or Economic Courts, or a court that was created from two chambers of the Supreme Court if it lets the case go there. This is done solely on political grounds. What the Supreme Court wants to do is to get some of the functions back, that's good, it shouldn't have been done when they were taken away. Because they were taken to put Onopenka in the margin, and today they want to return, by buying the judges of the Supreme Court, showing that there is another head of the court who gave them these functions back. I think we need to back up, but we don't need to manipulate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Yuri Carmazin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u39	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like us to bear in mind that for one year and two months we passed the so - called law, the so - called judicial reform, which completely destroyed the Supreme Court and completely destroyed the fundamental principles of justice in the state. Now it's a continuation of this. Today it is restored, glory to God, the activity of the courts, the offer here is to restore at least. That's a positive thing. But I would like to remind you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, that such proposals did not pass. This experiment has ended in tears and tears for the authorities, and now we need to report something to Europe. We need to report that we're moving somewhere. This requires adoption of a bill, but only in the first reading and in no case in the short run. Because it's on a short schedule anyway. Today it is only an expert conclusion, and today we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, have you all spoken? The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office has a slightly different opinion, believing that the bill is appropriate to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. In accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to deal with cases by the Supreme Court of Ukraine as a basis. [[Registration number 9151]] [[16:40:54]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I understand that we cannot consider accepting it in general, since there is a remark, one minute. The committee proposed a reduced procedure, one minute, and the offer of honorary colleague Yuri Karmazin was not to resort to a reduced procedure. In accordance with the Rules, I am putting to the vote the first sentence on the commission of the committee to prepare the bill for consideration of the reduced procedure, i.e. in a week. Registration number 9151. I'm going to vote. I have a proposal to make, Yuri Anatolyovich. I support you, I don't vote. [[16:41:44]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. It's a draft decree on the 125th anniversary of the establishment of the State Institute of Microbiology and Immunology of Mečnikov National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, the city of Kharkiv. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Or can. Whether he can make a decision right away and all. Who denies that we should adopt the draft decree as a decision to celebrate the 125th anniversary of the establishment of the State Institute of Microbiology and Immunology of Mechinkova? Is there no objection? So I'm voting on a proposal by the admission committee as a basis and as a whole. [[Registration number 8762]] Please vote. [[16:42:56]] For 324 I'll take the order. Thank you. Thank you to the authors who initiated this document. Dear colleagues, I would like to announce the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "The state of the art and prospects for the development of Ukraine's pharmaceutical sector". [[Registration number 9192]] Well, you know the state of the field. The parliamentary hearings were held. Is there no objection to accepting these recommendations that have been processed by the committee? I'm voting on the proposal for a draft Decision as a recommendation for parliamentary hearings on the topic "On the state of the art and prospects of developing the pharmaceutical sector of Ukraine. Registration number 9192. Please vote. [[16:44:01]] For 308. I'll take the order. Dear colleagues, we are now to consider with you the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the humaneization of responsibility for wrongs in the field of economic activity]] At the same time, two factions: the Timoshenko Yulia Block, "The Fatherland" and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", are calling for a recess. Perhaps honorary colleagues, initiators. One minute! You would support this proposal: not to consider this issue now, to consider others, and also to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Board to discuss this issue, on which a break is proposed. Is such a proposal supported? One minute, I'm asking, is that an offer supported? So I now ask the leaders of the MP factions and Andrija Volodymyrovich Portnova to meet in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council, and I ask Adam Ivanovich to continue the meetings, to consider other issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u41	We listen to the question: the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the abolition of criminal liability for the conduct of economic activity. But, fellow believers, these bills are binding, so let us also wait for them. Is there no objection? Then we are considering a bill amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[concerning the restriction of advertising for medical devices]] Registration number 8065. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:45:53]] For 208 Supported. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, the draft law changes article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act. In particular, it is possible to place and distribute advertising for medical devices only in appropriate specialized publications for medical institutions and physicians. Or by placing internal advertising in health facilities, pharmacies. And also take part in seminars, conferences, symposiums on medical subjects. Today, the media are exerting uncontrolled psychological pressure on citizens by advertising medical devices that seem to help treat all diseases, including severe diseases. One pill treats both caries and perchea and cancer. That's what we've got now. The above - mentioned advertising in the commercialization of the medical sector and the inaccessibility of ordinary people raises confidence that they do not need doctors. Thus, they are involved in self - medication, which often leads to permanent harm to health, and in some cases it can cost people their lives. The problem of self - care is, of course, a complex solution. Under this law, the following issues need to be addressed, namely, the adoption of laws that will enable us to finance the health sector fully. Solve the issue of the outflow of highly qualified medical professionals to the private sector. To resolve the issue of payment of individual medical services in public and municipal health institutions, such as laboratory, diagnostic, and counselling services. For addressing citizens who are given without sending doctors. Ignorance of medical facilities for patients. Inability to pay for treatment. High corruption in this field. And in fact, public uncontrolledness, the inability to bring medical personnel to legal responsibility for inadequate treatment, negligence, and so forth. So this project is aimed at reducing self-medication uncontrolledness and protecting our citizens from the pull of what is happening today in this direction. So, practically, as it were, pockets are filled with one another, and health is lost.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u43	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u44	I ask my colleagues to support this project. This will be the answer to the dissatisfaction of many of our citizens, who call on us as national deputies in advertising, when, for example, they do not receive the help they need to improve their living and health conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u45	Thank you. The committee reports to the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information on 18 May 2011, reviewed the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act, introduced by the Ukrainian National MP Simonenko, and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the bill to reject. [[concerning the restriction of advertising for medical devices]] [[Registration number 8065]] The committee disagrees with the fact that by effectively banning it, and not by any restrictions, we will be able to solve the problem of self-medicating the population of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that Parliament, by adopting the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 21 of the Advertising Act in April of this year, has already demonstrated those evolutionary and European principles and approaches that need to be improved with regard to regulating the advertising of medical devices. [[to accompany medical advertising with warnings of the threat of self-medication]] I will point out that the practice of applying such restrictions does not exist in any of the developed countries of the world. The current legislation of Ukraine and the signed international agreements already provide for the prohibition of advertising medical devices that are used and distributed only by prescription, i.e. doctor’s prescription, as well as a list of requirements and restrictions on the content of advertising medical devices, which is a standard maximum restriction on advertising of medicines in Europe. In our opinion, MOH Ukraine has all the important and potential to have a significant impact on the drug advertising process, since it is this government body that approves the appropriate list of non-prescription drugs, namely, such drugs under the law can now be advertised in the future. The Committee on Budget Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill has a direct impact on the budget. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus recommends that the first reading also reject the bill. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u47	Please sign up, if any, for the performance. Yes, please, Sorochinska Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u48	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! I want to say that today people in our country don't have a medical insurance policy. Many people cannot and do not go to treatment facilities. Many people simply buy drugs that harm their health by watching commercials. I want to tell you that in no way can a person determine how and how to treat him. I want to tell everyone that the Reform Group for the Future will support and vote in favour of the draft anti-advertiser bill. And I hope that there will be a time in the country when the health insurance campaign will take place in Ukraine, every resident will receive insurance and, of course, will be provided with the medicine that is needed according to the state of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u49	Please, George Smythech, faction of the Party of the Regions. Behind him is Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I am personally grateful to the author of this bill. Because the vachanalia on our television commercials leads to poverty that no one else sees except money. And they care about the processes that follow! How does this advertising work, whether positive or negative? Probably negative. Because the population is sick, the population is dying, and the population is shrinking. If this were to benefit us in our years of independence, this advertisement would probably be positive. In no country in the world will you see such a crazed commercial about medical devices. And every year, every new drug. And it's healing more and more. But more and more people are getting sick. Please tell me how you can allow this product to be used on a daily basis. An individual approach, only a doctor with an education, a diploma, a license, can say a drug. And we're spreading it all the way. And then we refer to that as if. If we deny advertising that it violates activity, constitutional rights to entrepreneurial activity, and so on. How do we break it? Who violates the rights of those who die after wrong treatment or misuse? And who's going to say that we have 40 to 50 percent of the drugs that are underground or that they don't match labels or packages that have absolutely nothing to do with drugs? Who is responsible for our shadowy drug flow? You don't know that the recipe is sick and the pharmacy, and they go into the same chain. Everyone who writes this one gets their profits. What don't you know? And you don't know who's able to heal, he's treating himself, his children and his relatives abroad, you don't know that? And you don't know that we don't have effective drugs, and they can get abroad, don't you know? And you deny this law? I'm sure you don't have to ban it completely, but you have to put the responsibility on that advertiser, on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u51	Yes, thank you, thank you. We have a lot of bills, I'm sorry. A weed, please. The weaver passes the word again. Canned? Oh, no. Grabrovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u52	Adam Ivanovich, your pet, did not pass on the word today. Dear colleagues, what is said here is called "horses, men and thousands of guns mixed together in one long war." There's no attitude about what the colleagues are saying here, about the ban on advertising. First question. The law clearly prohibits prescription pharmaceuticals from advertising. This is not to be done, and in no country in the developed world, prescriptions are advertised. Now it is said that it is forbidden to be unreceptive. Are we cut off from the world? Today, the same Russian television channels have a serious impact on Ukrainian media. There is no ban on advertising unreceptive drugs in Russia. In fact, our Ukrainian TV will only have this commercial because of Russian television, in Western Ukraine, thanks to Polish and other television. In fact, we can't completely ban advertising. But what will pharmaceutical companies do? They're going from pharmaceuticals to BADI, these are biologically active supplements. They're actually going to stop registering this as pharmaceuticals, where they're going through doclonal, clinical trials, and they're going to go into biologically active supplements, where it takes a little bit of money and a month to register this drug. And when you go to ADDs that are not banned by advertising, people will get even worse information and inadequacies that do not go through all clinical and clinical trials. This bill leaves us out of the advertising of doping and other drugs, the healing that needs to be banned, and so on. That's all we're leaving behind. Dear colleagues, I think that our colleagues who passed this bill wanted to do a good job, I'm sure of that. But no relation to what the previous colleague said and so forth has this bill. I don't think he needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u53	Thank you. Tischenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u54	The word of Fomin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u55	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u56	Fomin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u57	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, indeed, are a very important subject. Consider just one figure: In 2010, Ukrainians brought 20 billion dollars into pharmacies. What, do we have a whole sick nation? No, our citizens are just blindly trusting TV commercials. And if there was less trust, the cost of drugs would be much lower. Look who was leading the drug sale last year. It's Coldrex, Amizon, Arbidol, at a time when there are Ukrainian analogys. Do Ukrainians buy them? No, it's not. Why? Because these drugs are hidden by doctors and foremen because they are cheaper. TV commercials provide income for those who produce expensive drugs. And our people spend too much money on these drugs, even though we shouldn't. Because it's a stereotype. If stomach pain is a no-spa, if a stew is on the table, it's a mesimi. Well, you can't live like this and you can't deceive voters like that. Peter Mikolaiovich, more radically, should take a more decisive step to ban the advertising of drugs. Because you translate money from the media pocket into the pockets of the seers and the chief physicians who will face the dilemma every day or take bribes for placing advertising in the clinic. This service is not provided by an advertising agency. a medical facility, i.e. he has no right to charge for advertising drugs. You're just suggesting that you just transfer the funds from one to the other. So what I'm proposing is, by acting more radically, to go back to work and introduce another bill on the complete ban on advertising drugs in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u59	Yes, the Communist faction insists. One minute. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that a special committee, which knows the essence of the problem, has voted fully in favour of strengthening this rule and I am prepared, as the author of the bill, to accept this proposal and to amend the second reading with a view to tightening the ban. Second, the Committee on Freedom of Speech here understands why it has voted so. It is not a committee and its interests in the media, that is, it has come from life, but, to return, the deaths of Ukrainian citizens have been of interest. Thirdly, I want to take into account my colleague who spoke here, the whole family is in the pharmaceutical business, that's why he talks about it, he's not interested in life and health. The only reason he's getting this political thrill is so that his pockets are more loaded. This is the truth that must be told to the people of Ukraine. And I ask, distinguished colleagues, let's think about our fathers and mothers. Because they're using this commercial today, they're taking these drugs, and they're bringing everybody in from abroad, and they're cutting their lives short. I propose to support this proposal and to vote, on second reading, to submit a proposal to a special committee and to fully support the defence of medical advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u61	Thank you. Question completed. I think everyone, especially those who listen to us, understands how important this is to those who, unfortunately, carefreely believe in advertising, which is hard to call advertising. So there's an offer, let's support and protect our citizens. I'm betting on the adoption vote in the first reading of the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act, registration number 8065. [[concerning the restriction of advertising for medical devices]] Please vote. [[17:02:04]] For-69 By factions, please: Region Party 7, BUT 6, Our Ukraine 3, Communists 25, Reforms 19, People's Party 2, non-fractional 7. There are, honourable colleagues, to send a bill to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Please support this proposal. Vote. [[17:02:41]] For-60 Unfortunately, there is no motive. 60, not supported. The bill was unfortunately rejected. Dear colleagues, we need to look at the bill, because we're already in court today, and it's a little bit later. But in connection with Lawyer’s Day. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislations of Ukraine, registration number 8736, is pending. [[on the improvement of certain provisions of administrative jurisdiction]] The author of the bill, Comrade Kiwalov, suggests that it be considered in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[17:03:38]] For-198 Offer supported. Kivalov reports Sergey Vasilovich. Get ready, Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u62	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to point out that the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts has been prepared at the suggestion of the judges themselves, who are constantly coming to the committee. The project does not contain any political issues, its standards do indeed improve the work of the judicial justice courts and ensure the judicial protection of citizens at the proper level. The main purpose of the draft law is to improve the individual provisions of administrative justice and to improve the efficiency of administrative justice as a whole. The project solves many of the problems that hinder both citizens and judges. It is proposed to establish a term of reference to the administrative court for the subjects of authority, i.e. the subject of authority is compared to the citizens and it is assumed that the holder can only appeal to the court within six months of the date on which such grounds arise. The order of the collegiate proceedings is improving. We're improving the procedure for appeals to the administrative court. It is proposed that the cases before the Supreme Administrative Court be dealt with in the composition of three judges, such as the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Specialised Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters, where most cases are decided by a college of three judges. There has been an improvement in the order of diversion, and a defendant has been established for the prosecution of actions related to the execution of decisions by local courts as administrative courts. It is proposed to reduce the time limit for the delivery of a court order. It is a procedure for restoring materials lost by analogy with the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine. Science and expertise supports the first-reading adoption of the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u63	Thank you. Valerius Anatolyovich Bondik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, your honor is presiding! The committee, after considering the bill, recommends it as a basis. In view of the fact that, indeed, the scope of the draft law is linked to the protection of citizens’ rights in actions against the State and the charge of administrative acts. What novels are being introduced? For example, it is suggested that a number of articles of the Code of Administrative Justice should be amended, as well as the introduction of a new article to improve the procedure for administrative proceedings, expedite judicial review of cases, clarify the territorial jurisdiction of the Kyiv District Administrative Court and the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine in cases involving several related requirements. The matter of the transfer of an administrative case to another court has been settled in the event of the liquidation of an administrative court, a reduction in court travel time, and a deadline is set for the administrative court of the subject of authority. It should be noted that the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus is also proposing, on the basis of the results of the consideration, taking into account the proposals and observations, to adopt this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u65	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, let's take it, put it to a vote as a basis, especially since the committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration support this thesis. Then let the committee work on the comments and suggestions of the national deputies. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve certain provisions of administrative jurisdiction. [[Registration number 8736]] Please vote. [[17:08:15]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine is being tabled. [[on the humaneization of responsibility for wrongs in the field of economic activity]] [[Registration number 9221]] As well as the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the abolition of criminal liability for economic activity. [[9092]] The author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Kraljevska. In the first case, the bill came from the President of Ukraine. So, respectable colleagues, reporters, 10 minutes each. The answers to your questions are in five minutes. The report on the two bills will be made by the committee head for 5 and 3 minutes, respectively. Next up is the factions, and then, unfortunately, it's too bad that they're going to be national deputies. Dear colleagues, I think if we need to, then we'll continue the meetings a little bit, but we need to discuss these issues. Is there no objection? None. I invite you to the report of President Volodimirovich Portnov of Ukraine, Head of the General Directorate for Judicial Affairs. Then it will be. Dear colleagues, please, we're not at the rally. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u66	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws relating to the humanitarianization of responsibility for wrongs in the field of economic activity, sponsored by the President of Ukraine. As it is known, a draft of Ukraine's new Criminal Procedure Code has been drafted by the presidential decree as a working group on criminal justice reform. This project is now being studied by experts from the Council of Europe. The project will be brought to the attention of the Ukrainian Parliament after obtaining the relevant conclusions and preparing them. At the same time, there is now an urgent need to improve current criminal and procedural legislation in order to address current problems in the short term. That is why the Head of State commissioned a draft law to be drawn up. The need for the adoption of the law is due to the excessive interference of Ukrainian law enforcement agencies in the activities of economic operators and, as a result, to the existence of undue obstacles to entrepreneurship. Unjustifiably, the excessive level of criminalization of wrongs in the field of economic activity, the unwarranted wide range of legislative grounds for the imposition of penalties in the form of deprivation of liberty for crimes in the economic sphere, has led to a number of cases of abuse in attracting entrepreneurs to criminal responsibility. Such a state of affairs creates unnecessary obstacles to enterprise development, worsens the investment climate in the state, and, along with this, does not adequately compensate for the damage caused by illegal activities in the field. Thus today, it is clear that it is necessary to introduce the provisions of domestic legislation in this part in line with European standards that give priority to the application of financial sanctions for the offences noted. The main proposed changes to existing laws are the decriminalization of 17 crimes. These are usually practices that are practically free from criminal persecution and that have lost the signs of an increased social danger sufficient to prosecute them in criminal order. This is primarily about articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, such as violations of the order of business and financial services, prohibited activities, fictitious bankruptcy, and others given to you, honourable national deputies, in documents. You can divide these articles into two parts, which are decriminalized. The first part is those for which there are never any judgments that do not come into court, and in practice criminal cases are sometimes violated in order to prosecute entrepreneurs, carry out illegal investigations and thus restrict the constitutional rights of citizens. The second part is articles that are actually and even for which no criminal cases are committed. For example. According to article 221 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, "Unlawful acts in the event of bankruptcy" in the last six years, there have been no convicted persons in the country. At the same time, criminal cases were repeatedly committed by law enforcement authorities, which were not brought to trial and applied to pressure, usually to an investment environment. According to article 223, "Deploying securities without registering them," in six years, no convicted person. "For fake bankruptcy" is a 218 article of the Criminal Code, none of which has been convicted in the last 2 years. According to article 205 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, "Figurative Entrepreneurship" in 2010, 521 crimes were reported, and only 142 criminal cases were brought before the court, of which only 91 were convicted. As for the article that causes great social resonance, it's "decriminalization of smuggling." The Criminal Code of Ukraine we propose leaving part of the criminal responsibility for smuggling narcotics, psychotropics, weapons and other things that are now and remain in the Criminal Code of Ukraine. At the same time, I want to give you some numbers on the use of criminal liability for merchandise smuggling. In 2009, 318 cases were violated by the customs authorities, and a total of 1.5 million dollars were drawn to the budget. In 2010, 377 criminal cases were brought to the budget by even less than 1.4. In 2011, 263 criminal cases were broken, and zero of them were directed to the state budget. This indicates that criminal prosecution for smuggling goods is primarily aimed at any action, but not at bringing offenders to justice and at completing Ukraine's state budget. Our law provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code, which provides for the smuggling of goods with an unalterable total confiscation of goods that crossed Ukraine's customs territory and a hundred per cent fine as decided by the court. This will deprive the judiciary and the law enforcement authorities of the possibility of having any kind of lift to decide whether to apply responsibility or not. The law also provides for large-scale fines for all other articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which are not decriminalized, but are included in the section "land crime". This means that if a person who has committed an economic or economic crime can at any stage, maybe if he does not violate his procedural duties and becomes a criminal persecutor, he will not be sent to prison under any circumstances. And in this case, we have to say that we're proposing, starting with the detention procedure of up to 72 hours, which is carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the law of up to 3 days to make it impossible for economic crimes, as well as the precautionary measure, and punishment. There are provisions under which penalties as a fine may be substituted for deprivation of liberty only if the fine is not paid. The law also proposes a series of measures related to the change in the procedure for the application of precautionary measures. Yes, a precautionary action in the form of a take-off will take place in the next coordinate system. We suggest banning the selection of a precautionary measure in the form of a takeover, except in cases where the suspect violated another, previously chosen precautionary measure, was hidden from the authorities of the pretrial investigation or the court. Second, in matters of farm crime. Third, in matters of service crimes committed by entrepreneurs, not by authorities or by local governments. And in crimes for which the law provides for a penalty of no more than three years, and not more than five years before. The same position is set in the new draft Criminal Procedure Code, which we expect in the first decade of November after an expert study at the Council of Europe. We also suggest that criminal responsibility for individual farm crimes should be sought solely on the basis of the victim’s complaint. If only the rights and interests of individual citizens are affected. Such cases are to be closed if the victim makes peace with the accused. This will also prevent law enforcement from being abused and pressured into doing business. Last one. According to the final and transitional regulations. It is set up and proposed for adoption by parliament that persons who are serving sentences for them will be reduced to a fine. The extent of the fine to persons who are punished in the form of deprivation of liberty is determined by the age of unspent punishment. Precautionary measures in the form of custody, chosen for persons suspected or accused of committing crimes for which the law provides for the imposition of a basic penalty only in the form of a fine, are subject to review. It also establishes administrative responsibility for certain actions that are being removed from the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Some articles are also deleted from the Ukrainian Codex on Administrative Offences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, please sign up for Andrew Volodymyrovich. Names, please put them on the board. Alexander Cronvolenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u68	Dear Mr. Reporter! First of all, you're looking at not only physical persons, but also legal persons, I'm here, yes, before I'm here to present a claim. That is, if a legal person does not present a claim, it turns out that there will be no open conduct. And so there's going to be huge possibilities for the racket. And the second question you said. If a fine is not paid, then it will be a prison. Or do you think it would be better if you tried with a stick or a blowtorch before they pay the fine?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u69	Thank you, thank you for your kind offer. And I'll tell you what. On the first question. Our project proposes to bring criminal responsibility for individual crimes on the basis of the victim's complaints only in the following cases: the disclosure of a commercial or banking secret, the illegal use of insider information, the concealment of activities on the issuer, the opposition to legitimate economic activity, the concealment of sound financial incompetence, the illegal circulation of disks and laser reading systems. What this means is the human tongue, the human tongue. If, for example, you have no claim as an entrepreneur to your subordinate, no claim, no claim, no claim to you or to the law enforcement authorities, then the law enforcement body cannot do so on its own initiative. It used to be used to actually push on business. We predict that the adoption of this law will lead to the inability of a mask show and other tools when the state communicates with.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u70	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u71	As for your second question, if you don't pay the fine. The bill is proposed, and the corresponding balance is calculated that if a person cannot pay a fine within three months, the court may extend it to six months. In the event of failure to pay, six months later, it is proposed to replace punishment, solely on the basis of the court’s decision, by one day of deprivation of liberty — 8 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. This is mathematically calculated in this way, and in the criminal process it is predicted that, in any case, even if you have an amount of damage greater than the authorizing of the article, you will not be able to get more years of deprivation of liberty than the previous requirements of the code. In human language, it means that if an entrepreneur does not want to go to prison, he does not fall there under any circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u72	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u73	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Let's say it's not a new idea, and in large accounts, it's probably a real decriminalization issue that needs to be taken seriously and solved. And what's proposed in the bill today is that some of the ingredients of crime raise a lot of questions. But at present, one question is of interest. The bill provides for a standstill: non-problem crimes ranging from 5,000 to 17,000, heavy crimes ranging from 17 to 76,000, and especially heavy crimes ranging from 76 to almost 300,000. Do you have any idea what clondayk we're opening for houses in mantles, that's for the judicial corps? Please, your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u74	Thank you for the right question. You can define it, this problem, then. Our new project predicts that no less than the amount of damage, in any case, should be punished. This is possible, the article is designed to ensure that a person who commits a small crime is not brought into court for payment of a million dollars. Thus, in each category of punishment is replaced by a recalculation of the situation in the current Criminal Code of Ukraine because, as you know, the current Constitution of Ukraine does not allow for the introduction of new laws, in this case, of crimes that have been committed before it becomes effective. In this case, we can speak only of softening.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u75	Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u76	I'm handing over Leshchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u77	Please, Vladimir Leschenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u78	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Andriy Volodymyrovich, practically all farming activities in Ukraine are based on crimes. For the past 20 years, this has been promoted by the authorities. The deception of the state, the deception of citizens, the theft of funds, artificial bankruptcy, the falsification of drugs and liquor products, from what has become a tradition. Crime technology is becoming more and more sophisticated, and the extent of the damage is increasing. You said that Europe would be moved to adopt the proposed bill. But do we have reasons for being humanized? And have our business subjects matured to this point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u79	Mr. Volodymyr, thank you for asking. I want to remind you, and I've been bringing up some statistics right now, that if we had a criminal case, we'd end up with a conviction or a court order that a person is guilty or innocent. We don't have more than half of the cases coming to trial. This law establishes fewer possibilities for the court and for a lawkeeper to apply an active law to pressure the investment environment. That is, the mechanisms are being set up for which, if you commit a crime, you should be uninterested in continuing it, paying the government money, and not being held in prison. Because there are usually some crime figures in prison, and at this time business is cut off. That is why the bill proposes measures to prevent such phenomena. We believe that this law will greatly boost the economic climate in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u80	Yes, thank you. Time's up. As far as Bill 9092 is concerned. Thank you very much. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u81	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The problem of decriminalization of economic crimes in Ukraine is the problem of corruption and the extortion of public officials. The country lives on the principle that it would be a business and an article would be found. Thankfully, in the Penal Code, we have a real "commander" of outdated articles from the legacy of the Soviet regime. Officials have a huge amount of leverage for extortion. The Penal Code gives them the opportunity to do so. There is no serious social danger to economic crimes. They are only a reason for the racket today by government officials. In June, business understood this issue on the Business Council of Ukraine, business representatives spoke of unfettered extortion by verifiers. The medium company, for example in Lviv district, carries 80 checks per year. It's not a big business, it's a medium and small business. And every tester puts a criminal burden on the entrepreneur. And instead of developing their business today, entrepreneurs are forced to do something to protect themselves from prosecution. Criminal responsibility has now become a method of both economic and political persecution. And after such facts, it is not surprising that foreign business is afraid to go to Ukraine, that we have an investment inflow, that investors are leaving stock markets. As a fire today, investors fear Ukraine because they understand that they have neither the right to property nor the right to legal protection in their courts today. Our country now ranks 145th in terms of business and 109th in terms of investor protection. And it is still a very mild assessment of the impunity that is actually being created today through the Criminal Code in the Ukrainian business field. Of course, it is possible to fight dishonest officials and, of course, try to imitate order, but to remove corruption from inspection bodies by force, as we see it, is not working. It's like cutting off the head of a hydra where hundreds of new heads grow up. It is therefore more effective to exclude from the law today those articles which are the basis for manipulating officials to pursue business. I believe that, on the question of what articles of the Criminal Code today must be excluded in order for our business climate to improve and for people not to be afraid that at any time of day or day, people in masks will break into their office, and at any time of day or day a person may be arrested — the best thing they know is business. And without regard for the views of the business representatives facing such an abyss, it is totally pointless to talk about reform. I have drafted a bill that has led to dozens of expert tables and dozens of cases of extortion through criminal prosecution. The threats to fictitious entrepreneurship and the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means are now most commonly used as blackmail by officials. Whatever legislation we have voted on as a basis, we must include those norms in it. It's the opinion of the people themselves, it's the opinion of investors who want to feel protected. Who today suffers from criminal responsibility? Of course, the business that creates jobs that pays taxes and blames today is solely because the examiner wants either a bribe or a share of the business or a full business. And a business that has the power of will and spirit today is most likely to resist this indivisibility. And we have these examples in both 209, and 205. The article in Ukraine does not actually work on appointment. This article does not stand a chance of direct application today. In fact, no one can prove such an act, and the law enforcement authorities are in principle not prepared to fight such crimes. At the same time, this article can be applied in a fine manner to an innocent entrepreneur due to an error in the submission of documents during the finning process. And so this article applies. The same applies to article 205 of “Physical Entrepreneurship”. In practice, the instigation of a criminal case under article 205 for a real crime against specific officials can be initiated with the fullhearted recognition of the suspect. Innocent entrepreneurs suffer largely. In the event that the tax office is beginning to treat fictitious entrepreneurship, it considers that the label of fictitious entrepreneurship is now being adopted by tax collectors in order to recognize as worthless the transactions of entrepreneurs whose partners, unfortunately, had co-operation with the counterparties of suspected firms. Suspicious firms are appointed as witches and companies are being launched, businesses are being closed down, businesses are being destroyed. And this divide must be brought to an end today. Article 205, 209 had become items of redistribution of property. And if an entrepreneur isn't willing to share his business and doesn't want to make a deal, he's in jail. I hope that the reform of decriminalization will not be a major example in the Supreme Council of reforms. And I hope that this reform will not be the same as our tax reform. Today, there are all prerequisites for this. I would like to say a few words about the previous bill that has been considered here. Yes, there are articles that may be acceptable. But there are things that I find unacceptable. Let me give you an example. For example, if you decided to use postage stamps and decided to issue postage stamps, you can do so. And for this crime, you're only going to get a fine of 850 bracelets. I don't think it's comparable. Similarly, a fine for illegal trafficking, the maximum amount of 425 bracelets, has been abolished. After that, we can see under the Supreme Council, anywhere else, trade from asphalt, and there will be absolutely no punishment. It is proposed to waive criminal liability for non-renewal of currency and for the illegal opening of accounts. If this reform is to be done, it must be done in full with financial legalization. And in this way, we can only make sure that students who won't be able to close the bill in time get a fine of 17,000 bracelets. And yet another example of non-criminal liability for the failure of the State to obtain precious metal. This green light will be for both grave diggers and black archaeologists who will pay only a fine of 17,000 bracelets when they were expected to receive a fine of up to 2 years' imprisonment. In fact, criminal liability for securities fraud has been removed. Now instead of three years, the prison will only expect a ban on certain activities and fines. Unfortunately, this will be a direct cost to the advent of the pyramid in Ukraine. Illegal activities are being decriminalized. As a result, we can become a free zone for arms trade. The same applies to the illegal manufacture of sample glue, fine - 1700-17000 bracelets. We realize that both gypsy gold and self - worth gold can appear on the market after that. Another small example is the game business. We have, for several years now, been fighting with you and strengthening our responsibility for the illegal conduct of the game business. After the adoption of the law, it would look like a indulgence to the shadow gate, which had previously held back the prospect of sitting behind bars for five years, and after the adoption of the law, only a fine awaited them. And the game business can develop in this way. That is, we must apply all the conditions in place of the real reform of decriminalization, which will effectively free entrepreneurs from the transition that is in the country today, by exerting criminal responsibility by arresting both economic and political forces into a reform that will monitor crime rather than combating decriminalization. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, sign up for a question to Natalia Royal. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Danilenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u83	May I have a word with the People's Deputy Behalez?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u84	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u85	Dear Natalia Yuriovno, there is one question that is very important to all of us. Ukraine, as a nation, is a party to many European conventions, including the United Nations protocols. And an article in the Criminal Code like "legislization of proceeds obtained by criminal means" is one of the basics. How do you feel about being our nation in this case? And what should be the reaction of the European international structures if we remove the article you are proposing from the Criminal Code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u86	Thank you so much for asking. You know, we often want to wear a European mask. But we are not, in fact, the bearers of democratic principles. This article is also today -- it is a mask that is supposedly Europeanizing us. In fact, this article allows officials today to exert complete force and to recognize any income without a court decision as illegal. That is, any person who submits capital by law without a court decision today may be called to account and charged with receiving proceeds criminally. I therefore believe that this rule is to be settled in fines in the Administrative Code. And if we're talking about legalization of income, let's do legalization. And the proceeds that are being made criminally today are, unfortunately, the most legal today, but not under this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u87	Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u88	Dear Mrs. Natal, thank you very much for your report. Obviously, your proposals are much better than those of the presidents. But I'd like you to answer that question. And what do you think is the real purpose of the bill tabled by the president? There's this idea that it's for the future, for its environment, that it's a kind of indulgence. But on the other hand, if it's a paint picker, it's not likely that they're concentrating around the President in this small amount. I mean, well, what's this for, and what's the entourage here, and what's the real point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u89	Thank you so much for asking. I believe that indulgence for the future is a delusion of those who want to hide under this bill. Because you and I really understand that such a bill will not last long in Ukraine in exactly the forms that I have listed here, in relation to the gaming business, in relation to smuggling, in relation to bankruptcy. So all these rules, they're still underlying, and they really need to be changed. But you can't change in size. I mean, I don't think there can be a fine of 850,000 bracelets for a working casino. This must certainly be a criminal responsibility. I don't think we can legalize smuggling today, because otherwise we'll lose our entire internal market. So it's going to allow for a period of some kind today to monetaryize the shadow flow, but it's going to be a very short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u90	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u91	Thank you. Honorable Rapporteur! I am grateful that you have so reasonedly overturned your colleague's insinuation on the fact that someone is cooking for someone. You've done it very well. You've brought, let's say, unfortunately, statistics haven't come up, but you've expressed your point of view. And it certainly does happen. It's the only thing that's hurting. Over the past five years in Parliament, you have made efforts to deal with decriminalization, the fight against corruption among officials only now that the President of Ukraine has passed a bill that has been drafted by experts, with the help of the public, for about a year. It's weird, it's a coincidence. But in any case, we certainly invite you to work on the President's bill. Because he's really well-founded and structured. Part of the comments that you have made have already been taken into account and have already been prepared for comments and adjustments to the bill. That's why it's a question. Why do you think that what you are proposing is better than the structured, economic and statistically sound draft of the President of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u92	Thank you very much. You know, I told my colleague, and I had you first. So you don't count on the indulgence you've prepared. Because this indulgence is going to work for a very long time. Because you don't have much power. So don't commit the crimes that you'll wake up to. That's the first one. As to why I introduced this bill, you can look at the date of the introduction. And I passed my bill on 2 September. We raised this issue at a meeting of the Council of Entrepreneurs as early as March. Similarly, economists have sat and analyzed the field, analyzed what laws today have rules of direct pressure and persecution of business – those that are actually applicable today to the taking away of business, the taking away of business, and the forcing of people into corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u93	Yes, thank you, too, Natalia Yuriovno, time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u94	All right, well, that's good to say. And not only does he speak well, well, it's all so, dear colleagues, but we need to continue our work. I invite you to a report from Sweden by Viktor Dmitrovic, head of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u95	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting, the Committee on Legislative Security considered a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine on the humanization of individual provisions of a criminal code governing domestic offences. When we adopted the decision on the bill, we came out of the fact that on January 1, 2011, there were 154,1 thousand prisoners in prison in Ukraine. By the way, almost 10,000 more than they were imprisoned in 2009. I would like to point out that almost 88,000 of them needed medical attention, or treatment. 808 persons have not endured the life they live and live in, are referred to in the institutions of execution, and have died. By the way, it's also 45 more people than it was in 2009. I mean, I'm saying that we have a very, very serious tendency to increase the number of people in prison. More and more judgments are passed on a relative basis, and they choose a measure of punishment that applies to the deprivation of liberty. The committee therefore supports the President's proposal to humanize criminal legislation. And we recommend that the Supreme Council adopt the bill that the President introduced in the first reading as a basis. But, dear fellows, we should clearly imagine that this bill needs a very serious, substantial work, because if we take a valid criminal code today, for example, we take a fine. The penalty is the most liberal measure of punishment in our Criminal Code. If the amendments to the Criminal Code are adopted in the form proposed by the President of Ukraine, the fine will become a serious crime – at the level of murder, rape and so on. I think it's completely disproportionate things, and maybe we should think about it. The other one. Dear colleagues, the fine is now up to 850,000 dollars. There's a colleague here who's already talking about the bet. Bail, respectable colleagues, 800,289,000 dollars. In view of this, it seems to me that there should be some commercial departments in each court that should determine which part of the mortgage will go into the budget of the state and which part will go into the pocket. So I believe that this law is subject to mandatory expertise on its corruption component, which is the first. Second, respectable colleagues, the law is called: Humanization. And let's see what kind of humanization this is about. If the person who gave in. She was punished in the form of a fine, unable to pay that the bill provided for such a possibility of imprisonment, a substitute for a fine. And think about it, by the time you're 12 years old, that's a substitute. Dear colleagues! Under the current Criminal Code, a fine could be converted into public or correctional work. I mean, what am I talking about? There are a lot of positive things in the bill, the positive things are humanisation. All the other questions that I've said that I haven't said yet because the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has written 16 pages of comments. Here, your honorary colleagues, there is no reference to the name of the law, i.e. the head-expert management position and the name of the law on humanization, too, but I'm sure that we're working together with the President's administration, with all the MPs, what we don't need to remove from this law, and what's really necessary to humanize criminal legislation is necessarily involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u96	Finish up, please. Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, and next. I have another very serious warning for this bill, and I want you to think about what I'm going to say. We know in the history of the Soviet Union that millions of our citizens were subject to criminal punishment, and they were headed to the appropriate construction sites in Siberia, Kazakhstan, and the Bilomorcanal were building. So that we don't have to do this right now, the social programs will be financed by the government at the expense of the fines that will be handed down by criminal courts. I'm afraid it's extremely different that after the adoption of this law, each area will get an appropriate discharge of how many fines should come into the budget and this will be a very strong contribution to the budgetary allocations in our state. I don't think I can let that happen. Dear colleagues, and to be completed. We talked for a long time yesterday about the need to compromise in this room on decriminalization. The law, the honourable colleagues who introduced the President, is only called humanization, and I propose that they make additions and that they be decriminalized. I would very much like to ask my fellow national MPs that in the ruling that you are about to pass, we have added one point: to entrust the Committee on Law Enforcement with the possibility of decriminalizing official crimes. I think that would be absolutely fair and right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u98	Questions, honourable colleagues, if any, please sign up to the head of the committee. Yes, Petaovka, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u99	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u100	Who? Arsenius Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u101	Victor Dmitrovich, I have a very simple question. Please tell me, can articles that decriminalize the persecutions that have been declared political today be introduced to the second reading of this bill? First of all, I'm talking about the persecution of the former Prime Minister and former Minister of Interior. Is it legal to change these articles and to stop political persecution?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u102	Thank you for asking. When it comes to article 365, honourable colleagues, the text of the bill introduced by the President of Ukraine refers to article 365 with badge 1 and badge 2. There is also a proposal to humanize punishment. But at the same time, I would like to make another observation. We have only recently adopted legislation that regulates the fight against corruption. And already in this law, the President is proposing that punishment for corruption be greatly mitigated. Yes, in answer to your question, Arsenija Petrovich, there is no obstacle, from the point of view of the Rules, to considering the decriminalization of article 365 of the Criminal Code, since the text of the law refers to article 365. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u103	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u104	I have this kind of question. It is likely that each national MP receives letters from people who are in temporary detention for certain crimes of this kind of economic nature. People, not for months, have been sitting in the WHO for years, and nothing can prove an investigation and can't release because someone has to answer. Tell me, if we vote on this law, it will be signed by the President, how will it extend to those people who are in the compound and to those who are already condemned? I realize that there is no reverse force in the law, but it might affect some possibility of their early release because of pardon or some other nuance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u105	Thank you for asking. This is a matter settled by the draft law, which is a transitional provision, where it is clearly defined, how the fate of those who have been convicted before or who are being punished will be determined. Of course, all of these persons will be released if they are subject to laws that are unforeseeable, such as free will. But I would like to tell you that there are very few people condemned in this article who are now so humanized. And according to some articles, if I'm right, there wasn't a single sentence at all. So it's a very small circle of people who can, where this humanization can spread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u106	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up like this. We've got 20 minutes left. I ask you to continue the evening session for 15 minutes. And it's clear that for the performance, first of all, the faction representatives. Please record. That's it. Well, I am. What? You'll be limited. Yeah. Yeah, there were five factions, five by three by 15. So we'll have some more. Lemza, "BUT is the Fatherland." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u107	Please pass the word to Yuri Prokopchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u108	It's a knock-off. And the MPs sign up, if we have enough time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u109	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens! There is no denying the fact that today our criminal legislation needs both humanization and decriminalization. That's what all the democratic states and institutions are talking about. But I want to remind you, when Mr. Janukovic went to the elections of the President of Ukraine, he went under the slogan "Ukraine for the People." And the real slogan of this power is "The interests of the big business of the Party of Regions above all else." What does this bill propose? You'll just listen. Fictitious entrepreneurship, counterfeiting of money, fake drugs, alcohol, financial fraud, tax evasion, and even the organization of today’s banned gambling business and other serious crimes are humanizing, and all of this crime can avoid real punishment by ransoming part of the state’s stolen. Bill 9221 suggests that we legalize fraud, and now prison sentences will be replaced by simple fines for a number of offences. He stole billions -- he gave away 100,000 -- and after that, by washing his capital, you can avoid responsibility. I remind citizens of Ukraine, 270 billion dollars this year have been exported through offshore shadow abroad. This is almost the full budget of Ukraine. As if today the activity of counterfeiters could cost them the maximum 12 years in prison, the maximum fine they will pay should be 595 dollars. Today, a printing press that prints money and emissions from us, well, I'm sorry, it's worth the toilet paper. The budget deficit is already nearly 100 billion dollars. For banking card fraud instead of 2-5 years of imprisonment, they offer a fine of 85-170,000 dollars! What will this lead to? Banks will appear, then bankrupt, money will wash away, they'll run away. Well, it's a real MMM. A fictitious enterprise will cost 85,000 dollars. And that's on the other hand, dear colleagues, that political article 365 has completely fallen out of this array. Because it refers to the political leaders of the opposition. It is Julius Timoshenko, who has been illegally in prison for two months, Yuri Lucenko. So can we vote for such a bill, a bill for the oligarchs of the Party of Regions?Oh, my God! Oh, no! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u110	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u111	Mr. Chairman, please pass the word to Mr. Voropayev Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u112	Yuri Voropeyev, please give your speech. Valérie Beales will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u113	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you of how we have reviewed a number of draft laws here and discussed them lively, interestingly, which are actually now a major part of this bill of the President of Ukraine. For example, with respect to the pledge. And the opposition came to me and said, let's make a new law, even better law. Well, there was when my bill was being considered. And I'm surprised to hear such angry objections and references to the fact that this bill is for oligarchs only. It's a purely emotional political frenzy. That's what I'd like. I would like to focus separately on the pledge, which in this case is detailed here in this bill. It is very important now that this rule sets out in detail not only the manner in which the pledge is made, but also the manner in which it is implemented and the manner in which it is returned. It is very interesting to describe how such a measure of suppression should be applied as an arrest. You may have pointed out that the law would in fact prevent this measure of arrest from being applied to persons who, for the crimes they committed, provided for a very small measure of responsibility, whether up to three years or a fine, for example. The next question is that of what Mr. Portnov said about crimes that Mrs. Royal said about crimes that interfered with business and that were used for intra-corporative divisive purposes. This is the same effective bankruptcy, the same as placing securities without registering their release, well, and so on, there are many such crimes, in this case decriminalized, they were removed and fined. I often received people complaining of raids. Thus, such laws, which are now excluded from the Criminal Code and are only included in the Admincodex in the form of penalties, have consistently, always been used by a party during a corporate dispute. I would like to say separately about smuggling. While still an investigator in the 1980s, since 1984 it has been said that there has been no concept of “smuggling goods” in the world, there is the concept of “smuggling weapons”, drugs, narcotics and so on. But in this case, a very interesting material sanction was applied, which would make it pointless to smuggle goods. That is, a fine of 100 per cent of the value of the goods themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u114	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u115	Plus a hundred percent of the cost of the cars being smuggled, plus the confiscation of the smuggling itself. I think it's a very reasonable and correct measure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u116	Valerius Beales, Communist faction. The next is Arsenius Yatzenuk. [[instead of Boiler]] [[18:02:03]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I will not tire you with slogans. And in telegraph mode, I'll allow myself some of our views, the views of our faction. And so, paragraph one. The problem is, of course. And it has to be decided in some way. Judge for yourself: 10,000 full-time tax police officers, 6 BEP co-workers, 4 000 800 unit staff to combat organized crime, plus the appropriate units of the Attorney-General's Office and the state-of-the-art district attorneys, plus the Ukrainian Security Service and all that. So there are 25 structures that actively fight crime in the economic sphere, and that's why there's 30,000 people in the individual composition. Everyone's getting a plan in the yard. Everyone has a crime to commit, to break by any means necessary, a criminal case in order to take the lead and report that he is solving a problem here or there. So that's why what's being proposed today is necessary today, it's clear, but here I'm going to go to that bill that was reported by our honourable national MP. It is suggested that two articles be decriminalized: fictitious entrepreneurship – 205 articles and 209 – laundering of proceeds obtained by crime. And here, as in that movie, "I'm troubled by sad doubts," are you not working with the President's Administration? Why? Because the president's proposal is to cancel or abolish or decriminalize such an article as the creation of currency accounts and their use abroad, and you suggest legalizing or, more faithfully, decriminalizing an article on the laundering of dirty money. Classic! Classic cooperation! You won't say anything else. Next, it's not about how many articles we have in the Criminal Code, it's about how we use them, how the law works. That's the problem with law enforcement. Therefore, both the operas that show and the investigators who investigate and the prosecutors who accompany them, and the judges who examine them, should be asked. And the reference to a five-and-a-half-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousal. So, I think we need to vote in the first reading today, but on the second reading, we need to remove some of the crimes in general from the bill: smuggling is a serious crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u117	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u118	It's the same money-laundering, it's an article about opening accounts abroad, it's about doing business with forbidden species, and it's about doing the same thing with effective bankruptcy and financial services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u119	Thank you. Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u120	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In the near future, I don't think the Ukrainian Act on the Decriminalization of Economic Crimes will be necessary at all. You know why? There will be no crime in the economy, because there will be no economy. In the last quarter, the country’s gold reserves fell by $3 billion. The price of gas in the last quarter will be $500. Free trade with Europeans has not been signed, and 1 in 10 Ukrainians is unemployed. So now it's not a question of decriminalizing economic crimes. Moreover, it is clear that whoever is deprived is the one who has given his fate to the authorities will not be persecuted by the prosecution. Colleagues, I'm going back to the main question that should be discussed in this room. This is about political persecution in the country. What decriminalization, what economic crimes? If the people voted for by millions of Ukrainians are in prison, what free country, what free economy can political competition be about? And not to sit in jail for crimes, but to sit in prison for fear. Because of the fear of today's power that will come out, even at home things won't go to bet, they'll go to the playground. You don't have to worry. Vote for the Decriminalization Act. Let your political opponents go. That's why I'm now addressing, first of all, the President of Ukraine and the so-called majority. Declare in the vote the decree on the adoption of the Law in the first reading will require the committee to take into account the changes to article 365 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which will enable you to stop the political persecution of the former prime minister, former minister, and dozens of others you have planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u121	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. The next thing you know, Alexander Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u122	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, we certainly welcome the beginning of work, and we are considering what is happening today, and this is just the beginning of work that has to do with such a term as humanism and humanization, if in Ukrainian, the publicization of modern legislation and criminal and administrative legislation. This is normal and this is the normal way. But let's face it, the question of decriminalization and humanization, it's not as black and white as it seems. Let's imagine if there would be a criminalized crime or an offence when, let's say, a simple person steals, that's what happens, a box of vodka from a store. No, he'll be sitting. Agreed? He'll be sitting there, 100 percent. If other people who have more influence, who have more lawyers, who have more intelligence, let's say, they're hurting the state for millions of dollars or hundreds of thousands of dollars, for tens of millions of dollars, then they're subject to the term "decriminalization," "humanization." Something doesn't work here, you know. Somewhere around here is wrong about whether everyone is equal before the law. And that's why I'm asking the very hard question that both humanization and decriminalization should not conflict with a key principle that will never go away from crime. They will never disappear, and for which crime will not be minimized, is the irreparability of punishment. Any crime must be punished. And the other thing is, in what way, will a person be in charge or can he make a bet? In this regard, I have a few comments before Bill 9221. There are many. I think this bill is more complex, more extensive, more systematic, let's face it, even if there are other alternative bills. It's a systemic neck. That's what this is about. I'm taking changes to Ukraine's KPC, and I'm not going to be able to just talk about it. This is about what the mortgage should be given within five days. And let's say that for most citizens this term might not be enough to find this pledge. For whom is it fitting? For someone who's very rich and for whom these people counted 289,000 dollars as collateral, in five days to find it, it's no problem. Another person, with other property status, but who has committed no greater crime, and the same crime, will not give in five days. So I would like here, in preparation for the second reading, to take into account such things as family and property conditions for those who may be betrothed. Because that depends, again, on equality before the law. Because if this person, with a smaller one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u123	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u124	With less property, she can't pay the wager, as the colleagues rightly said, she'll go into custody, she'll be arrested. And the other person who committed the same crime will be released. I see, the minutes are running out, and once again, we welcome the start of a very serious civilized conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u125	Alexander the Blacksmith and the next will be Pisarenko, and probably that's it. Surrenders the right to speak to Yuri Carmazin. Pisarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u126	Let's get the carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u127	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed with our colleague Blackwolf, particularly the changes that are now being proposed. Including those already foretold, it is said, political article 365, for no one would ever have imagined that this article could be used for political purposes. I want to say that I was impressed to learn about this bill, which was written by two centers of influence or two men. First. And I want to support the committee that was speaking here today, the two heads of the committees that were speaking, who said that, yes, to one part of the comments, that's to the Criminal Procedure Code, and to the Criminal Code, there's a lot of them. I'd like to say that. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, you reported here today and said that here are many cases that are being broken, but little is coming to trial. But the question, Your Honor Andriy Volodymyrovich, I am addressing you, but the question is that they are not brought to justice or are they proving that they are being investigated in this way by the authorities that are investigating. But the question is because they're being proved that plan, including cash. But the question is, where do these things go? And it turns out that these organs have proved unable to resist real criminals. I'd like to say flaws. It's a colossal field of corruption. An article on mortgage. The size is determined by the judge, taking into account the circumstances, the property situation, and other information about the suspect or the accused. It's a health field. Look at this. 289,000, but it can be written, applied in a size greater than this amount, 17,000 untaxed minimum. Then what should we do? We have to make a deal with the judge. Think for yourself what it means. Next. I would like you to say that on July 1st, you started an anti-corruption reform. Five articles of this anticorruption reform in the Criminal Code are now being proposed to soften responsibility. Not yet, no one has been convicted yet of these articles, just as you announced it. What will you FatF explain? What will Ukraine look like? No one thinks about it. Now I want to talk about some of the articles separately. Failure to satisfy the person’s obligation to privatize and everything else you want to decriminalize. I want to say right now that all of this is offered for a big business, for impunity, so that no one gets one. Illegal acts on privatisation papers, if they did not meet the conditions for privatization of state property, all of this is being decriminalized. No, people against such decriminalization. And obviously we have to be against it. Therefore, I ask that when the first reading of normal articles is adopted, these articles be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u128	Pisarenko, please. Well, I've already announced. It's the last performance, dear colleagues. Please don't criticize me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u129	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! There's a lot of controversy in this room around this bill. But I didn't hear any MPs say that someone is absolutely against us finally freeing the business from the pressure that we see very often, and sometimes on television. When people in masks show you how to do business. And it's too bad that in some cases it's actually used as an influence on business. And what speakers have said here really happens in Ukraine. And it's not likely that any of you would object to us adopting this bill in the first reading and then in the later part, we've already brought it to a positive conclusion. But what can hinder this bill? Well, of course, there was a lot of politics in individual speeches. And when individual speakers speak here without having any statistics on what they speak, which, when their activities are virtually in no way connected with the jurisprudence, business, law enforcement, or legislation, of course, it seems quite populist. I would like to point out that in any case, this bill does not give any relief to those who commit crimes. And in the end, who can't compensate the State for the damage, he'll still be responsible for it within the framework of the responsibility established by criminal law. Moreover, there were a lot of allegations of smuggling here, but in general, go back to that statistic that the President and his deputy head of the Administration spoke today. It's that this year the state has gotten exactly zero from smuggling, which a lot of people are struggling with. And one more thing, and one more thing. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have read very carefully the conclusion of the Supreme Council and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, and you know, it is strange to me that separate paragraphs have been completely reprinted and taken from a letter from the Supreme Court that came to the authors of the bill. And even they didn't change either the wording or the one that highlighted the individual lines. And I have a request to check. We have a major scientific and expert office that electronically takes papers from the Supreme Court and reprints, distributes them to the deputies. Or do they really have the ability to draw conclusions on individual bills? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-06-m1.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, we're running out of time. Trust me. Please! Please! Dear colleagues, when are you? I'm asking you again! Please! A colleague of mine transferred the right to speak only to Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues, since we've completed our consideration of the issue, we have two bills, they're alternative, so I'm going to put the first and second bills on the proposal for adoption as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the humanisation of liability for offences in the field of economic activity. [[Registration number 9221]] This is the Presidential Bill. Please vote. [[18:19:39]] For 278 Decision taken. I now put, honourable colleagues to the vote, a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the abolition of criminal liability for economic activity. [[Registration number 9092]] Please vote. [[18:20:17]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Given the low level of support, I declare the bill rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its plenary work from 10 a.m. on Friday, October 7. Thank you.
