ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:00]] Cards were registered in the 324 national deputies in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Samilika Katerina Semenovna, who has a beautiful date, please welcome our colleague and Špenov Dmitry Juriovich, and also welcome him and wish our national MPs success and health. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from December 6 to 9, 2011. Three plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, 97 issues were discussed, 26 laws and 47 decrees were adopted, 22 bills were adopted on the basis of 22 bills, 22 bills were returned to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, 16 bills and 2 drafts were expressly rejected, 124 parliamentary requests were announced. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are scheduled to speak on Tuesday to the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Members of the MPs and groups, please sign up for the presentation. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party. Next is Mikola Martinenko. Who will act? Mikola Sherschun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u2	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head, distinguished listeners, respected colleagues! Every year, the gas fever covers all the citizens of our country: both politicians and officials, generally the entire population of Ukraine, are concerned about the future price of gas. New gas negotiations and the fact that in the budget for the following year we are forced to set the price of over $400 per thousand cubic meters are a real challenge for our economy, especially in terms of inefficient consumption of energy resources. The expensive gas puts Ukraine in direct dependence on the neighbouring state, which can thus manipulate socio-economic development and investment climate in our country. The way out of this situation is to look for our own energy resources, to increase the use of renewable energy sources and alternative fuels. It's not about big industry right now, but budget and utility is the first thing to pay attention to. They are the most sensitive and vulnerable to gas pressure. For justice's sake, we have to say that the government is working in this direction. Last year, a decree was adopted on the approval of the National Targeted Economic Programme for the Efficiency and Energy Efficiency of Energy Production from Renewable Energy Sources and Alternative Fuels for 2010-2015. The budget expenditure for the two years in a row confirmed the cost of 600 million dollars to implement the projects, but the approval did not go away. The chief budget administrators did not take exhaustive measures to finance the projects. At the same time, local executives have already spent millions of dollars developing project and technical documentation and conducting state expertise. It turns out that trying to save energy, to find renewable energy sources for today, does not yield the desired result for the sake of achieving tangible changes in our nation's energy dependency. Reporting on a stable decline in GDP energy efficiency in recent years is not enough to achieve our ambitious goals. Most European countries have long been making effective use of renewable energy sources and alternative fuels. Ukraine also produces fuel pellets from wood waste and exports almost 100 percent of them. Our stock of peat could have solved the energy problem, at least the budget institutions in the Polisi area, but there is still no complete system to support these projects. Under these circumstances, Ukraine is doomed to be a permanent payer of large sums for gas and a donor of the economy of the neighbouring state. The situation needs to be changed urgently. There is work in this direction. It is necessary to make every effort to ensure the effective use of energy resources by legislation, to speed up the drafting and consideration of the relevant bill so that the programmes developed by the government work effectively. The task of implementing existing projects comprehensively, studying their effectiveness, finding new options, controlling the use of allocated funds, and practical assistance should be concentrated in one hand so that the government has someone to ask in case of non-performance and ask hard questions, because it is about the energy security of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u3	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please, your performance. Soroczynska Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u4	Honorable compatriots! Dear colleagues! The 2011 summary is tragic for Ukraine in all directions. The government has consistently led the state to a socio-economic catastrophe. Our fault lives on the calendar of the ancient Maya. She did her best to see the end of the world in 2012, at least in Ukraine. There is no money in the State Treasury, but they will save, not on officials, but on low-income citizens. The budget is delayed by wages, and the benefits are cut off by socially defenseless people. Mass protests will only increase. Today, we have the whole of Ukraine, Chernobyl, a disaster zone caused by Yanukovic. The president and the government made a strong promise of accelerated wage increases in 2012. Now Kabmin quietly admitted that it was a lie. Nazbank’s gold reserves melt in front of the eyes at a speed of up to $3 billion each month. The West does not believe in the ability of the Ukrainian authorities to change the situation for the better. So we're out of foreign investment, and the IMF is no longer lending. In foreign policy, national interests are rife with the leadership of the state. The Kremlin's contribution to the gas transport system and underground gas depots will not simply deprive Ukraine of the last asset that brings money -- it will finally put a cross on Ukraine's European integration. Our European perspectives have already been undermined by the shameful persecution of opposition. Janukovic and his team did everything they could to ensure that the European Union refused to sign an omrian treaty for Ukrainians. With two hands, the government crosses the European future of Ukraine and drives us into the Soviet past. Tens of millions of Ukrainians don't want to live in a state like this. We will give the Ukrainians a European perspective. And in power, one concern is the total corruption of all levels before the end of the world. Two grand affairs are being prepared, the largest in 20 years of independence. They want to sell the main national wealth cheaply, and only the name and flag will remain from Ukraine. First, under the banner of the so-called land reform, the oligarchs and officials will squander our land and then resell it to the aliens on the trip. Ukrainians will not be masters of their land. Secondly, Russia's commitment to our GTS and underground shelters is being prepared. This week’s predominant majority wants to quickly extend the antisocial budget for the following year. The government only cares about itself. More than a billion people have been added to the force, 100 million more have been healed, more than 4 million have been added to the President's residence. All of this is due to a reduction in spending on low-income people. Experts expect even more in 2012: the collapse of bracelets, the rise in prices for all basic goods, the rise in housing and utility tariffs. And yet Maya's pupils have made a mistake, 2012 will be difficult for Ukraine, but it will be a year of hope. Democratic forces have to do everything they can to win elections to parliament, and this will be a prelude to a complete change in this unprofessional and compromised power. Ukraine deserves a better European future, and this will be Ukraine without Yanukovic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u5	Thank you. Soroczynska Kirilenko, MP for the Future, please give your speech. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! A group of National Deputies of Reforms for the Future is deeply concerned that as long as political passions persist in the state, there is a fierce struggle for power, and its population is constantly shrinking and deteriorating in health. In 1991, we had 52 million, today it's 45 million. The average life expectancy of Ukrainian citizens is 68 years, and it is 121st among 192 countries. Our Ukraine, our people, the Ukrainians have survived the famine. And today I can tell you that we're in a state of infectious seas. There are no vaccines in the country, children die after vaccinations, sick children are born in the country, despite the fact that up to two dozen government programs have been adopted, are not fully operational, nor are none funded. Because of this, the National Deputies of the Reforms for the Future group are saying and stressing that the formation of social and individual prioritization in our country should now be a healthy way of life, environmental cleansing, an intransigence in the fight against drinking, smoking, the use of drugs. The development of a material base for mass culture and sport, the creation of conditions for the restoration of organic agriculture, the population of Ukraine must feed on its products, the reduction of road traffic injury. All medicine in the country should be directed towards its preventive course, not to be treated, not to be prevented. The Reforms for the Future Group believes that the reform of health care, namely the pilot project in Kiev, Winnitsky, Dnipropetrovsk and Donetsk region, which functions this year, is completely insufficient to consider it a complete reform. Today, the MPs of the Reforms for the Future, and personally, I say that there must be a law in the country on state health insurance, which is at the expense of the state, that pensioners, children, children, children with disabilities, wars should be insured. And our Chernobylites with an insurance pole would be able to get medical treatment where they could provide it professionally. I want to say that in order for our citizens to feel the protection of social security, pension reform is a department, and the health of the nation, is the birth of our children and the conclusion of life. The "Reforms for the Future" faction agrees to participate in all actions, in all drafts, to address the President, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council with proposals for the most recent adoption of the National Health Insurance Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u7	Thank you, too. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist faction. Next up will be Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u8	Dear comrades, distinguished colleagues! Once a faction of the Company states that the experiments and experiences carried out in Ukraine on its citizens, who for some reason referred to as reforms, have brought destruction and poverty to millions of Ukrainian homes, with a heavy burden on the shoulders of our ordinary citizens. All of this has become possible because so-called reforms do not reflect the interests of the common people but only protect the interests of capital. That is why we, the Communists, propose a specific anti-crisis programme. It was developed by prominent economists, lawyers, financiers, business leaders of the real economy, scientists and agrarians. Our programme takes into account both national and world experience in overcoming the economic collapse and crisis, beginning with the Lenin NEPAD, the post-war reconstruction of the Union and completing the modern experience of socialist China and Viet Nam. What tasks do we set, and how do we propose to deal with them? First, we need to raise the real economy. We offer direct lending by the State of the real economy. More than 50 per cent of the investment is being reimbursed to the same State in the form of taxes and taxes. State investment will address the main challenge of maintaining markets, preserving and increasing jobs, and ensuring stable budgeting. Food also becomes a strategic resource, such as oil and gas. We can increase the productivity of the economy by two or three times, each of the bracelets invested will yield double income. Secondly, Ukraine's problem is not in the absence of money or resources, but in the way it is used. Today, at least 30 per cent of the budget goes away through loops, cliffs, fictitious tenders in the pockets of officials and roaches. For example, my distinguished colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the five times opened over the past few years by the Cyprus Bridge through Dnieper in Kiev, which cost the budget ten times more than the construction of the longest bridge in the United States of America, four kilometres across the Mississippi. Restoration of Ukrainian monopolies with interest would provide the public and social sphere needed for people with 20 billion cubic metres of domestic gas, which is several times cheaper than Russian. Communists offer: Ukrainian gas for Ukrainian citizens, Russian gas for Ukrainian oligarchs. That's when it'll be clear who's in charge and what kind of policy they're in. Third. A fair tax and budgetary policy. A minimum of 800 million bracelets per year can be obtained from a luxury tax. The alcohol monopoly would immediately increase the country's budget by 20 per cent. More than 50 billion bracelets will not be withdrawn without tax abroad. Approximately 20 billion greaves will receive a budget if all transfers to off-shore areas are covered by a 15 per cent tax. The interest paid is enough to cover the pension deficit completely and not to tease three of our pensioners. The Programme proposes to strengthen and monitor the enforcement of labour law relating to the rights of employees, to increase the responsibility of employers to the criminalization of the rights of our citizens. Ukraine's entry into the Single Economic Area and participation in the EurAsEC is an important foreign policy challenge in our anti-crisis programme. As we can see, yesterday there was a signing of the Single Economic Area between the three States. The Eurasian market is needed by Ukrainian producers, in particular, as is access to natural resources. The EurAsEC is the future. The EU, where we are so persistently drawn by the preachers of the Western Paradise, "ours" is the past. Dear comrades, our constituents! The Company's anti-crisis programme is a programme for the people of Ukraine. Today, Ukraine faces a tough choice: either the labour people return the economy to their interests, or the country will finally become a commodity of the global economy, particularly the West. And the final choice for you. I very much hope that together the will of the people will prevail.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u10	Justice, nationality and socialism must be successful, and 2012 will be marked by truly popular reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u11	Mikola Tomenko has the floor. Sergey Kiwalov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u12	I am authorized to inform you that the Fatherland faction is today holding its hearing in the Court of Appeal because I am convinced that this court over Timoshenko must be under a watchful parliamentary eye in order not to allow another provocation. The provocation that was during the entire session of the Pecher Court, the provocation that was during the last hearing of the Court of Appeal, when even journalists were not able to see, to hear how this court is happening, the provocations with the cynical television show about Timoshenko's cameras. So today all the members of the Fatherland faction will be in the Court of Appeal in order, on the one hand, not to allow these provocations, but, on the other hand, to give moral support to Julia Timoshenko. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the situation in the socio-economic sphere of Ukraine. And knowing that tomorrow's the third announcing of the possible change of individual government ministers, I would like to draw your attention to the following. It is difficult for me to say whether the President of Ukraine will find a minister he is not sorry for, but we regret the Ukrainian people. Because a strong, professional, consistent authority in two years is unable to free at least one minister who is responsible for failure in his sphere. Today, social reform has failed. Today, annotated reforms in education have failed. Today, health reforms have failed. The government was working so that, in order to avoid opposition, local self-government and in the end, the Supreme Council, which voted in favour of issuing grants a few days ago, was not able to pay salaries to teachers, doctors and budget workers in many areas of Ukraine. I have a question. What, does the president want to take down one or several ministers for this? I think it's time to resign the entire government, which in two years has earned such an assessment of the Ukrainian people. Because even if you add yesterday's events to the socio-economic sphere, you could say that the government Europeanized Ukraine in that part that some high-income children actually bought properties in Austria. Some have bought in other European countries. But the European standards we were talking about and the signing of the agreement ended with what they ended yesterday. In the foreign political sphere, the authorities have failed to establish relations with Russia and have lost relations with Europe. Therefore, I am absolutely convinced that if the President believes that the government should be responsible, this responsibility for the failure of Ukraine should be borne by the entire government. So we hope that tomorrow we will hear from the President an initiative on the liberation and resignation of the entire government. Otherwise, the President obviously shares the responsibility completely. And I think there will be a time when he too will have to take responsibility with the government if he is afraid to take such a serious step. At the same time, in our view, in the budgetary process of forming a new government and giving up the present government, it will be no big deal that we have not received the budget in such a timely manner, so that we will not get it. And I think that, for the sake of the budget, not for the benefit of billionaires and millionaires, but for the benefit of the people, the budget is not for the benefit of their regions, but for the benefit of all regions, they will be ready to gather on December 30 and December 31st and vote on another correct, adequate budget. So once again, the honourable colleagues, the authorities, are past the time to cheat their mistakes on the previous authorities -- it's time to take responsibility for themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u13	Sergey Kiwalov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I wish to inform you of the results of the 89th plenary session of the Venice Commission, which took place from 16 to 17 December this year. On the first day, the Commission considered questions relating to the implementation of its previous findings. With regard to judicial legislation, I informed the members of the Commission that, pending changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, they were already actively implementing its recommendations, on the basis of which, the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges had been amended with regard to the work of the Supreme Court, the Higher Qualifications Commission and not only. On Saturday, the Commission concluded a draft law on the basis of State language policy, which I represented as a co-author. With regard to controversial media comments, I will say that the text of the Commission's conclusion is already available on the Commission's website, where everyone can get to know it today. I would like to point out that the President of the Venice Commission, Gianni Bukikkio, said: "The bill on the basis of language policy is a step forward." The keynote speaker, Professor Bartali, acknowledged the acute language problem in Ukraine and stressed that he had received requests from national minorities to protect their linguistic rights. No bill has yet been better evaluated by the Venice Commission. Of the 9 final conclusions, the majority were positive. The only comment concerns the strengthening of the positions of the State language. The Commission recognized that the bill had been improved compared to the 2010 bill and had been amended in the right direction. The Commission referred to the project as more balanced and welcomed the liberal approach with regard to the protection of regional languages. This time, the conclusions were prepared in the light of professional dialogue. We sent the experts with Vadim Koleschenk in advance our objections to the draft detention. On the day of consideration, changes were made and many of our comments were taken into account. Some comments have, of course, persisted, and we will take them into account when preparing for second reading. Since August, our bill has been under consideration in the Supreme Council. It is clear that everyone was awaiting the conclusion of the Venice Commission. It's already there. I believe that, at this stage, when the Constitution does not allow a clear solution to the language issue, this bill must be adopted. The bill will remove unnecessary contradictions that hinder everyone. Every citizen can read, learn, judge, watch TV in Russian and speak the language in which he is comfortable. As soon as the work of the Constitutional Assembly begins, the language issue must be definitively resolved. As a national MP elected by the Party of the Regions, I always remember one of the main provisions of our party's electoral programme: to make Russian the second state language in Ukraine. At this stage, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u15	Dear National Deputies! Factions finished speaking. For suggestions that require a response, I ask the Secretariat to prepare necessary assignments, letters, or referrals. Dear National Deputies! Let us turn to Tuesday’s schedule. We need to include, put to the vote, proposals for the inclusion in the agenda of a series of bills. I would like to vote on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to deploy a peacekeeping contingent for Ukraine's participation in the United Nations Mission from the Stabilisation and Association in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 9604. Please vote. [[10:29:39]] For 240 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian State Budget 2011 Act, please vote. [[on the State Geology Service]] [[Registration number 9543]] [[10:30:13]] For 271 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the State Privatization Programme Act is put to the vote. [[Registration number 9509]] Please vote. [[10:30:39]] For 236 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian privatization laws on the implementation of the provisions of the State Privatisation Programme 2011-2014. [[Registration numbers 9520, 9520-1]] Please vote. [[10:31:17]] For 237 Decision taken. A proposal is put to the vote. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko. For what reason? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u16	On this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u17	Microphone. One minute, what difference does it make to the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u18	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues and distinguished voters, the Tobacco Education Ministry is now proposing another provocation for the Ukrainian people. It's like she's worried about preschool education, and in fact she wants to make one point so that children's kindergartens, if needed, can create separate groups in which education is done in a different language than in institutions as a whole. Simply put, somewhere in Tetiyev, in Vladarka, in the White Church, a Ukrainian kindergarten, parents wrote a statement and a foreign - language group is being formed. And all of these children are immediately divided into two classes, two classes of teachers, children, educators, and their parents, and they begin to find out the relationship inside the kindergarten. Because of the language that parents choose, they begin to think. And this is the implementation of this program, which is in the basic law that Kiwalov was just talking about. So I propose that most of us should not introduce provocative laws that provoke the Ukrainians, but rather introduce laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u20	I passed a law on the construction of new kindergartens. It's about renting children's gardens, which now, a thousand kindergartens, are leased to businessmen. To secure the land forever behind the nursery in the countryside. To increase money for developing literature. In each kindergarten, the nurse would be attached. On this point, most people should make a law, not a disgrace, which is provoked again by the Smoker. Please don't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u21	A vote is taken on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the project. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please, Vadim Koleschenka. We need to make a decision or discuss it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Well, there's just been some scary talk from a man who just doesn't understand what human rights are called. He forgets European. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Here, we hear a group of these so-called people. We, Ukraine, have obligations before the Council of Europe. And these so-called people say we do little work to join the Council of Europe. So I remind these so-called people. Ukraine has obligations before the Council of Europe to ensure that the child is raised in the mother tongue, that is the first. The strict demand of the United Nations is to ensure that the child is raised in the mother tongue. The OSCE's firm demand is to raise a child in the mother tongue. Today, there are kindergartens in Ukraine with Hungarian, Romanian, Polish language, but the need is much higher. Therefore, the Ministry of Education is doing its utmost to make Ukraine a worthy member of the Council of Europe. Please hold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u23	There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Preschool Education. [[about the language of education]] [[Registration number 9439]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:35:22]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 178, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, "The People's Party" – 0, non-factional – 121. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Land and other Ukrainian legislation on land administration work related to the establishment and change of territorial units. [[Registration number 9408]] Please vote. [[10:36:18]] For 217 The decision is not taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the delimitation of state and municipal property is put to the vote. [[Registration number 9495]] [[10:36:51]] For 219 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return to the consideration of draft law 9495. Please vote. You vote and the system works. On the return to the consideration of draft Law 9495. Please vote. [[10:37:31]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Law of Ukraine "To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the conservation of soil fertility" is put to the vote. [[concerning deferral]] [[Registration number 9585]] Please vote. [[10:38:06]] For 243 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending Chapter X of the Land Code the "Transitional Positions" of Ukraine on the prohibition of alienation and the change of destination of agricultural land. [[Registration number 9586]] Please vote. [[10:38:42]] For 273 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 on the increase in expenditure on technical restocking of coal-fired enterprises is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9564]] Please vote. [[10:39:15]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. It's not about that. Please. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law amending article 51 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget shall be put to the vote. [[on costing the maintenance of business and economic missions]] [[9561]] Please vote. [[10:39:54]] For 248 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. [[on supplementing the list of nuclear facilities]] [[Registration number 9448]] Please vote. [[10:40:27]] For 253 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving the order of the execution of judicial proceedings]] [[Registration number 9535]] Please vote. [[10:40:58]] For 268. Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine shall be put to the vote. [[on business taxation issues of the defence and industrial complex]] [[9347]] Please vote. [[10:41:29]] For 251 Decision taken. The proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending the Final Provisions of the Law on Certain Debt Issues for Natural Gas and Electricity is put to the vote. [[concerning the extension of the duration of the action]] [[9581]] Please vote. [[10:42:02]] For 238. Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Change in the Tax Code of Ukraine on Natural Gas and Electricity Taxation is put to the vote. [[concerning the extension of the duration of the action]] [[Registration number 9582]] Please vote. [[10:42:37]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in connection with the bills that have received the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of their inclusion in the agenda, I ask the committees to prepare them for consideration. As we stand ready, we can consider these bills at the evening session. Dear colleagues. If they're ready. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed on the Conciliation Council, because we have both the last plenary week, and we have an indestructible desire to work, that we will continue the evening session until the finalization of the issues set out in the schedule for today. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. On the continuation of the evening session until the finalization of Tuesday’s scheduled issues on December 20. Please vote. [[10:43:43:43]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you for understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on Parliamentary Hearings on "Ethnonational Politics: Gains and Prospects". Dear colleagues, you and I have made decisions and planned to hold parliamentary hearings on January 4th. At the same time, the committee asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to postpone such hearings in order to hold them on January 11, 2012. Is there no objection? That's why I'm putting to the vote this proposal, which is set out in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft registration number 9563. Please vote. [[10:44:55]] For 246 Decision taken. So on January 11th, there will be parliamentary hearings on "Ethnonational Policy: Gains and Prospects." Honourable National Deputies, the draft of the Order on Change and Establishing the Borders of the City of Mariupol, Voddarski, Novoazowski, and First Level Districts of the Donetsk Region is under review. The committee followed up on the decision. The principal legal administration has no comments. Who has a warning about the Law Project? You don't? Can I take it? There is a motion for a vote to be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the amendment and establishment of the borders of the city of Mariupol, Vladarski, Novoazowski and First Level districts of the Donetsk Region. [[Registration number 9600]] Please vote. [[10:46:07]] For 270. I'll take the order. A draft Decision on the appointment in 2012 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's named scholarships for the most talented young scientists is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9500]] Dear colleagues, you know that according to the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the prizes are awarded annually to the most talented young scientists. A detailed analysis and selection of the candidates was conducted this year, and the committee took the appropriate decision on this issue and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine take the appropriate decision. Is there a point to this? Well, there's one point. Jaroslav Kenzier, please, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u24	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine!".. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Mr. Lutsky and the Ministry of Education must be very careful. Because we know that this year, it was the Minister of Education and the Ministry of Education that the Ukrainian State Prize was awarded to a great adventurer, the killer of Andrew Slusarczuk. I'd like the first decision and the next one to listen so that they're very meticulously tested for the personnel on the reward list. Because after that whole Ukrainian scandal, this affair, the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's independence, if we get into another such conflict, I think it's possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u25	The offer is understood. Katerina Samuelk, the first deputy head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u26	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich and respected colleagues, to whom political power would not apply! I want to say that this decision is prepared as a result of the fine work of, above all, the sectoral academics, the National Academy of Sciences, it went through a working group, which includes prominent scientists from our state and, again, representatives of the industry and the National Academy of Sciences. And so I would very much ask you, we have a very difficult situation in general with young scientists to stay working for the state of Ukraine. Brain drain, you know, is in our country. And this proposal to encourage young scientists, talented people, I think, who do we need to support? Please all support this determination and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! Who's up there? Vladimir Kurilo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u28	Vitaly Kurilo, MP of Reforms for the Future. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! The fact is, these 30 laureates were very carefully considered by a special commission made up of scientists, first and foremost, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. So I don't think there could be any suspicion of who got on that list. And I'm going to point out that from each nomination, there were about five people competing in one place. So it was a competition, a competition that was considered very carefully by several commissions. And I would like to support the decision of the committee and this committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, of course, there is a reason for the problem that he was talking about, the question, Jaroslav Kendzer. Because "get on the milk, start blowing on cold water." At the same time, let us trust the higher education institutions, the economics, the National Academy of Sciences and the sectoral academics that offered the right candidates. Granted, life is so difficult that it is impossible to protect against it. But I think it's going to be an additional incentive or direction, commissioning the committee to keep looking at this subject. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, we may have a different attitude toward our fellow workers. But I think that respect should be given to those who are subject to these proposals, these personnel. I don't think we should trust everyone. That's the first one. And second of all, I don't think our colleagues are completely understanding everything, including the research of young scientists, young scientists. So I think it would be better to treat people who actually do science with more respect. Because if a person has been working for decades in the Supreme Council, that doesn't mean he's a great scientist. So I think I need to support the proposals that came from famous, well-known, higher education institutions in Ukraine -- to support young scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u31	Yes, the head of the Maxime Lutsky Committee. We wanted it as fast as possible, and it turned out to be a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u32	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, indeed, the committee worked, the working group was extremely serious. And of the work that was done, the National Academy of Sciences was represented -- 7 jobs, the higher education institutions of the Ministry of Education and Science -- 31 jobs, the Minagropolitics -- one job. Even from the fact that there were some jobs, there was no comment either in principle or criticism. So after careful selection, we approached and identified ourselves. So there's an appropriate draft of the Supreme Council Regulation on the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarships for the most talented young scientists since 16 March 2007. According to which 30 named scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for young scientists and candidates of science have been awarded annually since 2008. The amount of the scholarship is 2,000 dollars. To achieve this, I've already told you how much work has been given. Information about candidates on name scholarships was published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine and posted on the committee's website. The competitive commission, approved by the Supreme Council’s Chief of Staff, discussed the work presented for the competition at its meeting. The decision of the competitive commission was based solely on the work of the economic profile. Considering that more than a third of the work has been sent to Ukraine in recent times, i.e. 14 in economic sciences, it has been decided by the commission to conduct the competition only in that direction. According to the competition and the expert evaluation of 14 economic jobs, 6 were selected. These are work done in economic and classical universities with current economic trends. So the competition commission for the establishment of 30 named scholarships to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented scientists in 2012 is proposing the nominations set out in the draft decree. The authors are 19 doctors of science and 11 candidates of science who prepared doctoral dissertations. These are science-oriented works: physics-mathematic sciences -- 6 jobs, technical sciences -- 11, 6 jobs -- economics and one job at a time -- from government, chemistry, biology, education, legal and philosophical sciences. The authors of 21 jobs are men and 9 are women. The implementation of the decree requires 720 thousand dollars. Such funds under paragraph 4 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarships for the most talented young scientists since 16 March 2007 the Cabinet of Ministers is scheduled to provide for the drafting of the National Budget Act of Ukraine each year. The committee suggests that this decision be supported and accepted as a whole. And not reacting to statements like we just heard, people who don't respect young scientists and don't support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, no objection? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the appointment in 2012 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's named scholarships for the most talented young scientists. [[9500]] Please vote. [[10:56:03]] For 269 Decision taken. And a second draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced – the award of the 2011 Supreme Council Award to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development. [[Registration number 9501]] Please, Maxim Lutsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u34	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the draft Order is being prepared to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prizes for young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and scientific and technical development. Again, since March 16, 2007, the 20th annual prize of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists has been established. 83 jobs were put in place to win the Supreme Council Prize for the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development in 2011, scientific institutions and higher education institutions. This is the largest number of jobs compared to other years. The prizes are from the National Academy of Sciences 36, the Minosveti, the youth and sports 28, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy 9, the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences 6, the National Academy of Medical Sciences 3, the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Infrastructure. All the works were published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. The Committee of Scientists and Scientific Organizations received more than 100 positive feedback. According to expert evaluations, 20 jobs were taken from 83 jobs by a competitive commission approved by the Chief of the Supreme Council, a competitive one-to-four job proposed for the award. This is 9 works of the National Academy of Sciences: mathematics, IT, mechanics, energy, nuclear physics, bioorganic chemistry, new materials of biochemistry, language. Six of Minosveti's works are youth and sports: astrophysics, nanotechnology, material science, biology, pedagogics, history. Two works of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences: agriculture and animal genetics. One of the jobs of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food is to work in the field of environmental management. Ministry of Infrastructure from Technical Sciences, National Academy of Medical Sciences from Radiobiology. With the decision of the competitive commission in connection with the low level of work presented for the competition for economic sciences, it was proposed not to give a prize from the economy in 2011. Thus, among the candidates presented for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 33 are offered to young scientists, of whom 2 are doctors of science, 28 are candidates and 3 are non-scientifically gender-sensitive. 12 women and 27 men. On a geographical scale, 13 works, from Kiev and the region, one by one, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Lviv, Dnipropetrovsk, Sumska and others. The draft decree for the award of diplomas and the corresponding monetary part to the prize winners of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been given to the most talented scientists on Science Day. Implementation needs 400,000 dollars. The committee also recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept this arrangement with complementation. Yes, in the preparation of the decision from the technical circumstances, the name of the Forest Helena Victorian, a junior scientific associate of the Institute of Clinical Radiology of the State Institute, the Scientific Center of Radiation Medicine of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, is the fourth co-author of the implementation of a complex of clinical and molecular methods.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no. Well, there's no question under the reduced procedure. Well, please, Jaroslav Kenzier. What kind of question?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u36	It's important, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine! Dear Maxime Georgiyovich, please tell us on this list of young prospective, perhaps in the future, brilliant Ukrainian scientists have the name Andrija Sluzarczuk, associate and good friend of the Minister of Education, Comrade Tobaccoer, who applied for the Ukrainian State Prize? If there's no last name, I'll vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u37	Thank you. I'm answering. There's no last name. Dear colleagues, there are no other warnings? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and scientific and technical development for 2011. [[Registration number 9501]] Please vote. [[11:01:02]] For 276 Decision taken. Dear National MPs, the draft Ordinance on ensuring the unhindered activities of the media during the pre-election period of 2012. [[Registration number 9311]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. And we can vote for it right away and we can vote for it. [[11:01:39]] For 234 Decision taken. Reporter: Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, the history of such a question, traditionally the day before the election campaign of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, defined the rules of conduct of the verification, inspection institutions in part of their relationship with the media. I do not remember a year before the election campaign of the Supreme Council recommending that the Cabinet of Ministers refrain from checking the media and, accordingly, the National Council on Television and Radio talk also stop the tests during the election campaign. [[and this is the corresponding fire, sansations, other structures]] You know that there was an initiative of a group of national deputies led by Irina Heratchenko. And in order to transfer the idea from the decisions we make the electoral days and make it part of the law. This idea was not supported. That's why there's no alternative to us right now. Because the Electoral Law became effective. If we want lower-level officials at the local or Kiev level not to abuse their right of inspection, I would like to vote on this. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. Because of the tax administration today, the National Television and Radio Board, and sanitation and fire agencies are planning their work for 2012. Therefore, it would be important for the Supreme Council to inform them and put an end to the fact that checks are being stopped during the 2012 electoral campaign. So we provide normal, democratic work for the media. And we're going to avoid possible conflicts that usually happen when, let's say, suddenly, there's some kind of media checkup that doesn't like any candidate in the national parliament. Please support the decision made by Tomenko, Condratiuk, Kurpil and Ukolov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! From the committee? I can't see. Please sign up for the performance. The names of the national deputies please be placed on the information board. Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that this is an extremely important decision. And it's very good that we really accept it 10 months before the election campaign, not three days before the election, as it was before the 2010 local elections. I also want to remind the capture that a few months ago we brought a temporary investigator from our Commission on Censorship Investigation a corresponding bill sent by the deputies of all parliamentary factions. And then most parties said they wouldn't vote for it, because they needed to be included in the Elections Act at all. As we know, there are no similar standards in the Electoral Law. And even today, representatives of the regional media are also addressing, and representatives of the central media, that the theme of the election is, in fact, the relationship between the editors and the outside world. And so it's very important that we ensure, in fact, that editorials from the arrivals of fire, veterinary services, any services that can be heated up with electoral campaigns pre-planned, tax services, and just ruined the lives of journalists who will still find it difficult to work at this time. An extremely important decision, an extremely relevant decision. It is important for Parliament to demonstrate its loyalty to European values after the summit of Ukraine, the EU, where much has been said about loyalty to these values. So freedom of speech and the protection of the media is one of those fundamental values. Let's do this 10 months before the election campaign starts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u41	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! A party of regions, like no one else, is interested in having the election campaign conducted as honestly, objectively, transparently, so that there are no political speculations both inside and outside the country. And this is confirmed by the fact that at the final stage of the drafting of the Electoral Law, we have put this law in the hands of the opposition, given it the opportunity to refine it, given it the opportunity to do everything they consider necessary to ensure that the elections take place as honestly, objectively and transparently as possible, in order for it to be fair political competition. We agreed that even the rapporteur would be on the side of the opposition. And by consolidating this, I would say that a consolidated union of common sense has voted by 366 votes, confirming that the law is indeed an opportunity in the fair political struggle of the people as the main reference to declare the winner in October next year. But it is also absolutely right that, in order for the election campaign itself to take place with the public participation, so that the public can see that people can express their views publicly and so on, both the press and the media play an important role. And in this part, we share the same support for this initiative in terms of what I would say to the media, during election battalions, from excessive screening of testers to prevent, well, from allowing the process to be objectively illuminated. We therefore propose, and in this part, to support the proposal, the reasonable offer of the opposition to take as a basis, I reiterate, on the basis of this draft regulation. Then finish it and immediately after New Year's Eve accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u43	Asshole, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u44	Gennady Bullying, Santa Claus. The MP's "For the Future Reform Group" is in favour of launching a moratorium on the verification of media by the monitoring bodies. As evidenced by the practice, such checks during the electoral campaign can lead to various abuses, violations of constitutional guarantees of freedom of speech. We believe that the adoption of the draft decree on ensuring the unhindered activity of the media during the pre-election period of 2012 will be an important step to ensure that the elections are conducted objectively, and will allow citizens to make the right choice when voting. The MP's Reform for the Future is proposing to support this bill. And we will, of course, support it and encourage the hall to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u45	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u46	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, our faction joins those arguments that have already been made public. And the only thing I'd like to add is that if we say that some of the lacunas or crevices are in every election legislation that allows for falsification of these elections, one of the proponents of this possibility of forging elections is just this powerful work of the media. It is understandable that not all of them are irreprehensible and understandable, and we have witnessed this many times when the media, unfortunately, become a tool to charm some political forces and praise others. But in this case, if you look at the scales just in the pre-election period, you obviously have to give them the maximum opportunity to explain things, although the level of work of these same snakes should be the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor. Question completed. Dear colleagues, what we accept when we discuss this issue, the appropriate decision, shows that laws that regulate the activities of the media and their representatives do not fully work in Ukraine. And it would be logical for the committee to prepare a report from the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this matter by working on the relevant document. But since there is not even a committee representative today to report to the Supreme Council on the need for adoption of this project, this indicates that the committee does not perform its function in that direction, and this indicates that we are accepting a political document for the elections. I think we all understand this very well that we are trying in this way, in the form of a decision-making policy, a determination to put above the laws of Ukraine. Therefore, I think that, at the same time as this decision is being adopted, it is necessary for the committee to prepare an appropriate report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to be able to respond properly to this problem. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft regulation on ensuring the unhindered activity of the media during the pre-election period 2012. [[Registration number 9311]] Please vote. [[11:12:24]] For 287 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee has proposed that the bill be adopted as a basis for adoption as a whole. Is there a denial? Yeah. Dear colleagues, if there is a objection, then I will put to the vote a proposal to have the committee prepare for the final adoption of the draft with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:13:05]] For 272 Decision taken. Replica, Ruslan Knazević, was called.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u48	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, I want to take off the voltage because the insinuation started. The point is that we had a bill that dealt with these issues, and he envisaged amendments to the electoral laws. And when the working group was still in the president's office, that question, including me, was initiated. There are people here who have participated, who can confirm. Sadly, however, international experts have categorically denied this because there is no such practice anywhere in the world. Well, it's hard for them to explain why we need to protect the media from testing during the electoral process. But then they proposed another mechanism that was taken into account by the working group, that it was not a matter of regulation of electoral legislation, it was a matter of regulation of media legislation, of the Nacrad, and of the State Tax Administration. So I think the best option in this situation would be to make changes to the laws that regulate those issues, not the elections, because the election issue is not directly about all the media, but only about those in which the pre-election campaign is being conducted. Now it is virtually impossible to determine exactly what kind of media is going to run a year in advance. So I think we need to go this way, and then the voltage will be off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation on "Reforming the System of Internal Affairs Authorities of Ukraine and Implementing European Standards" is under consideration. [[Registration number 9414]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of the Law Enforcement Activities of Vladimir Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! Allow me from all of you today to welcome the members of the police with a professional holiday -- the day of the militia -- to our colleagues who worked in the militia. To thank them for fulfilling their responsibilities conscientiously, to wish them good health, to their families, and to God’s undeserved kindness daily. [[Applause]] On October 5, 2011, Parliamentary hearings were held in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of reform of the system of internal affairs bodies of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the implementation of European standards. In fact, for the first time in 20 years of independence, the Ukrainian Parliament at this level has given attention to the main element of the law enforcement system, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. During the hearing, an open and professional conversation took place. As a result of this discussion, and on the basis of proposals made by the authorities and the public, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations is being introduced. The proposed Recommendations state that, despite repeated attempts over the past 20 years, there has been no comprehensive reform of internal affairs bodies. Since the mid-1990s, several attempts have been made to reform the IMF, but to achieve the goal of radically updating the law enforcement system has not yet been possible. The Recommendation Project describes in detail the state of affairs in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, problems and gains. In addition, the direction of future reform has been determined. We suggest that we accept the Recommendations, except for those recommendations that apply to the competence of the President of Ukraine, since in accordance with article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President has the right to self-sufficiently create advisory bodies and put tasks before them. This position is in agreement with the new minister, Minister of the Interior of Ukraine, Zharchenk Vitali Juryevich. Thank you for your attention. I propose to support the removal of these proposals regarding the competence of the President, which apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you not to insist on speaking. I'm asking you to listen to me. We've been holding parliamentary hearings for three hours, and we're now making decisions based on parliamentary results. There is no discussion, a discussion at parliamentary hearings. Well, dear fellows, please! Puts the vote to the vote. I beg of you, fellows of honor! This is the adoption of parliamentary hearing recommendations. I tell you once, parliamentary hearings have prepared appropriate recommendations. Please, don't interrupt! I should have made a comment to the committee. The proposal is put to the vote: the adoption of the draft Resolution as a recommendation for parliamentary hearings on "Reforming the internal affairs system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and implementing European standards". [[Registration number 9414]] I'd like to make a statement. Taking into account the suggestions made by the reporter. I'd like to make up my mind. Please! Please don't scream! [[11:18:14]] For 186 The decision is not accepted. The decree is rejected. The draft decision was rejected. I'm asking you again: don't shout! You looked so normal on TV, you were talking to people, and here you are yelling! Be so tolerant, please! You don't have to! [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, calm down! That's a decision we make. Please, sit down! Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The Family Institute in Ukraine: Status, Problems and Ways of Resolution" (registration number 9431). The draft decree is discussed at parliamentary hearings. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, please, please, please! The reporter is Naydenov Andry Mihajlovich. It's gonna be a stake, isn't it? A crumb, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u52	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, Parliamentary hearings were held on September 21, 2011: "The Family Institute in Ukraine: the situation, problems and ways of resolving them." The current questions raised at the parliamentary hearings are confirmed by a large number of suggestions made at the hearing and received by the committee. By the way, about 500 participants participated in the hearings. In the proposed Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations, the committee has sought to take into account and systematize all proposals made by national deputies, central and local executives and local authorities, representatives of the public organizations of Ukraine. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine review and adopt the draft Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on recommendations for parliamentary hearings of the "Institute of the Family in Ukraine: Status, Problems and Ways of Resolution". Please support our committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u53	Honorary colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt a draft decree containing recommendations for parliamentary hearings on "The Family Institute in Ukraine: status, problems and ways of resolving them." I'm voting on a motion for adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on this subject. [[Registration number 9431]] Please vote. [[11:21:21]] For 268. I'll take the order. A draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The state of industrial safety and labour protection" is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 7424]] Reporter: Hara Vasil Georgievovich, please head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, it is rare for Parliament to have almost a year's time between parliamentary hearings and the final adoption of the Recommendations. On 17 November last year, we held these parliamentary hearings in this Hall, with 600 participants. On 23 December, Parliament considered it on first reading and commissioned it to finalize it. It should be noted that the normative framework for labour protection, despite its considerable size, is imperfect and does not solve the problems that arise from the development of new economic opportunities, the emergence of norms and forms of property. It is clear that there are now more than 9,000 State labour protection legislations in force in Ukraine, many of which are outdated and require revision. Thus, the inventory and correction of legislation on industrial safety and labour protection is one of the most urgent issues of social and labour development in Ukraine. According to statistics, there has been a downward trend in production injury over the past nine years in Ukraine, but according to the International Labour Organization, the level of production injury in Ukraine is considered to be one of the highest in Europe. Compared to Britain, more than 5.5 times, in Germany 5.5, in Japan 3, France, Austria more than twice. According to the State of Ukraine, the number of workers working in the main sectors of the economy, in conditions that do not meet the health standards is almost 30 per cent, which means that one in three is working under harmful productive factors that are more than permissible. The Committee established a working group of people's deputies, not just members of the Committee, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, the All-Ukrainian Union of Trade Unions and the All-Ukrainian Employers' Association. These recommendations were well worked out, and on 7 December this year the Committee considered these proposals at the meeting, finalized them and invited the current meeting to consider them. These recommendations set out a number of measures to improve industrial safety and safety. In view of the above, the working group and the Committee strongly request the support of the Committee's decision and the approval of the recommendations of the parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! No, there's no such thing as factions. It's a decision-making. Oh, no, I was just about to give Laszka the right to. That's right, so what's your point? Please ask questions that have not taken into account your written offer. Did you have it? Please, Cowboy microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u56	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I believe that the Recommendations cannot be adopted for several reasons. I'm not talking about the internal content that there's a recommendation on the Labour Code. The point is that I have filed a draft regulation, will be returned to Bill 9424, which proposes to correct the error we have made in the adoption of the Labour Protection Act. It is that we have confused the amount of implementation from which percentages have been allocated to the Labour Protection Fund and have confused with the Wages Fund. The Labour Protection Fund has declined by 70 per cent. Trade unions are all outraged, and they also address you, Vladimir Mihajlovich. That's why I'm asking 9424.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way, because the observation, I'm going to put acceptance as a basis, and we're going to continue to define ourselves. Hara Vasil Georgievovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, respected by Nikolai Vasiljevic, what my colleague has said is fair, but they have nothing to do with the text of the Recommendations. The issue that Nikolai Vasiljevic raised was discussed at the committee meeting, a working group was set up to look for options along with the Cabinet of Ministers: that is, to return to the realization of products that employers often conceal and do not provide accurate information or to the Wage Fund. Where more funding will be provided, these issues will be brought to the meeting of the Committee and considered and adopted. The issue is therefore very important, but it is separate and the recommendations on labour protection are separate. I'd like to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u59	A motion for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Decree. [[Registration number 7224]] Please vote on the basis. [[11:27:32]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The draft decision was rejected. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Road Safety Bills is under review. [[Registration number 9492]] You have this motion for determination. Do you agree with him, Your Honor? It is suggested that a number of draft laws should be drafted and a single bill should be made on issues related to improving road safety. Is there no objection? That's why I'm voting for the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Bills on Road Safety. [[Registration number 9492]] Please vote. [[11:28:30.]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Decree calling for a draft Ukrainian Higher Education Act because the authors have asked the committee to withdraw the bill. But this can only be done by a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the fact that the bill is included in the agenda. So here's a question of such a technical and organizational nature, and I would like to put this proposal to the vote and support it, because the drafter refuses his child. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the draft Higher Education Act. Please vote. Registration number 7486/P. [[11:29:38]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour proposes to adopt a draft Order calling for a draft Ukrainian Act to amend certain laws of Ukraine on the organization of State oversight and the monitoring of compliance with legislation on labour and labour protection. Is there a denial about this? You don't? I'm voting on this proposal. Registration number 8484/ P1. Please vote. [[11:30:28]] For 270. Decision taken. Similarly, respectable colleagues, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour introduced a bill calling for a draft Ukrainian National Qualifications Act. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal, please vote. [[Registration number of draft regulation 8726/P]] [[11:31:06]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear folk colleagues. I'm sorry, distinguished national MPs, but also national colleagues, that's right, the party is like that. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to inform you that the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to strengthen the control over the conclusion of bond agreements and mortgages on land and their rights is being proposed. [[Registration number 7539]] The reporter is Valerius Bevanko. Valery Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u60	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, is presented for your consideration, prepared for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening the control over the conclusion of mortgage agreements and mortgages on land and rights to which it is envisaged to amend the Ukraine Land Code and the Ukrainian Law on Mortgage, according to which the transfer of land to or to exercise the right to land on condition that the land is allocated to the cadastral number. [[Registration number 7539]] [[tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine]] At its meeting on November 15, 2011, the committee considered the draft bill and noted that five amendments to the committee had been made to the second reading. The committee thanks the people's deputies who made their proposals to this bill. The amendments introduced are essentially editorial and merely clarify the content of the bill. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the project be adopted in second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u61	Dear National Deputies, the committee suggests, I remind you once again, to accept in second reading and generally as a law. There is no central legal administration of the bill's observations. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to strengthen the control over the conclusion of collateral and mortgage agreements on land and their rights. [[Registration number 7539]] Please vote. [[11:33:53]] For 266 The law is passed. Announced before. No, it can't be announced. This is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the administration of public property. Since the text of the bill does not meet the requirements of article 116, please bring it into line. He's the head of the General Legal Department. Find out. If you find out, they'll lock us up, we'll do it. Yes, please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u62	Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, there's a separate story under this law. There is also, well, a former minister, and now the head of the committee. We can, of course, send this law out and rework it completely. But we have to understand that we're going to lose time, we're going to get the same document, we're not going to get anything new that we can actually do today. Because the document has been processed at all times. The only, yes, is a violation, but the Supreme Council can agree on a decision on the matter if it deems it necessary to take it. I would like to come back and discuss this matter in substance and make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one minute. I specifically invited the Chief of Legal. Alexander Mikolaiovich, sit down, discuss. Because in addition to all the large installations, Alexander Sergiyovich, there is an institution like the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And let's count it with her, too. That's it. Please find out all the questions. I want to tell you again, find out all the questions. Now sit down and take off all those warnings that were there. Then let us return to the consideration of the matter. Dear colleagues, this Supreme Council should not be transformed into a printing structure. You criticize yourself when you need it. And if that's what you're interested in, it's the law. I ask you once again, Your Honor, prove to the General Legal Department that there are no violations of the Rules Act. That's it. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the arrest of ships is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 8553]] The reporter is Dmitri Mikitovich Pritika, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u64	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, is presented for your consideration in the order of second reading by Bill No. 8553, developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In preparing the bill for its second reading, seven amendments were proposed, six of which were supported by the Justice Committee, one being rejected. In its conclusion to the bill, the Chief Legal Authority draws attention to the need to make appropriate changes to procedural legislation. Such changes may be introduced by a separate bill, taking into account the case law. As for the proposed edition of chapter II, we need to agree with it. In particular, the administration proposes that section II of the bill be drafted as follows: "This Act takes effect at the same time as the entry into force for Ukraine of the International Convention on the Standardization of Certain Rules for the Arrest of Ships, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Association of Ukraine to the International Convention on the Standardization of Certain Rules for the Arrest of Ships from 7 September 2011. " [[No. 3702-6]] The committee requests the adoption of a second-reading bill as a law, taking into account the legal administration's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u65	No objection, dear colleagues? Taking into account the committee's proposals, I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the arrest of ships, the adoption of the Act on second reading and generally as a law. [[Registration number 8553]] Please vote. [[11:38:26]] For 256 The law is passed. A draft Law on the Limitation of Legal Aid Costs is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Justice. Please. Who will report? Bondik? Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! Mr. Head, I'm sorry, there's no report. But this bill was discussed with us on the committee. What are we talking about? Which, in fact, legal aid exists in the state. It can be exercised by both legal professionals, both defenders and other representatives, in accordance with procedural legislation. There is a question of the marginal amount of payment for this aid. There are types of people who need free, as it were, legal aid in the courts. This has always been the case in the ministries of justice when these costs were reimbursed to the court’s attorneys. This bill was discussed with us on the committee; it was unanimously supported by all the representatives of all the factions. And instead of a reporter, I ask you, Your Honor Mr. Head, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, practically all the proposals made to this bill for second reading are taken into account in whole or in part. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading and in general. A number of comments to the bill that the committee disagreed with were made by the Chief Legal Office. Thus, according to the Rules, the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law on the Limitation of Costs of Legal Aid is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8393]] Please vote. [[11:40:42]] For 259. The law is passed. A draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the declarant principle]] [[Registration number 8388]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Seminoga. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act has been introduced for your consideration. [[on the declarant principle]] The purpose of the bill is to bring legislation in the field of fire safety in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Free Economic Activities, which is achieved by making appropriate changes to article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. The bill provides for conditions for enterprises belonging to the category of fire - resistant objects to engage in decorative activities. That is, on the condition that voluntary insurance contracts are made against third parties. Such practices exist in all civilized countries of the world and have demonstrated their effectiveness in reducing the influence of controlling authorities on business entities. The committee received six suggestions from Ukrainian national deputies. Of these, one is counted as part of one, four are rejected. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. National MPs, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster propose to adopt the bill as a second reading and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention, and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u69	Dear National Deputies! The Chief Legal Authority has no comment on the project under way. So there is every reason to put to the vote a motion for acceptance in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. [[on the declarant principle]] [[Registration number 8388]] Please vote. [[11:43:19]] For 253 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters. [[on individuals and individuals of entrepreneurs]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the presiding officer, this bill is available for your consideration on second reading. If you see a table, note that only one amendment is not included in the table, all other amendments are taken into account. The Committee proposes the adoption of the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters concerning individuals and individuals is put to the vote. [[entrepreneurs]] [[Registration number 2398]] The principal legal office also fully agrees with the committee’s draft. Please vote. [[11:45:05]] For 255 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the refinement of the sub-scene]] [[Registration number 4505]] The rapporteur is Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement. Please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u72	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear fellow national MPs, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The drafter proposed not to clarify, but to change criminal proceedings, in particular to refer article 294 “Mass Upheavals” to the undersecution of the Ukrainian Security Service authorities, and if other crimes were to be established during the investigation of such cases, so that they too could be investigated by the Ukrainian Security Service. The Chief Legal Office made a note, particularly that only on May 18, 2010, article 294 “Mask Upsets” was transferred from the undersecurities of the Ukrainian Security Service to the undersecurities of internal affairs authorities. Two legislative proposals came into the bill, and both of them were taken into account. The committee requests that the law be upheld in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u73	I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the refinement of the sub-scene]] [[Registration number 4505]] Please vote. [[11:47:03]] For 275 The law is passed. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Police Act, by Grisak Vasil Mikolaiovich, is being announced for consideration. [[on the duties and rights of the police in ensuring the internal affairs system]] [[Registration number 4829]] Please, who will report from the committee? Well, then I'll have to serve as a committee. Dear colleagues, this bill has been amended nine times, they're all accounted for. And the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on second reading and in general. But the Chief Legal Authority has made a number of observations that conclude that the bill cannot be adopted in a second reading. I'd like to take this into account when voting. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft law. [[Registration number 4829]] Please vote. [[11:48:26]] For-29 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a motion to re-read the bill. [[11:48:50]] For 252 Decision taken. A draft Act amending articles 255, 265-2, 321-1, 322 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on the Improvement of Certain Provisions is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Victor Shemchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement brings to your attention the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Articles 255, 265-2, 321.prim and 322 of the Code on Administrative Violations for the Improvement of Individual Provisions. The bill was designed to improve state regulation in the area of road safety and was designed to remove the current gap in legislation that was created in connection with the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 24 September 2008 of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of road safety relations. The bill had seven proposals. Of these, five are counted, two are rejected. In particular, the proposal of the Lukyanchuk People's Deputy has been rejected because it contradicts article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council Rules and the proposal number 6 of the Zadirko People's Deputies, which is that part 2 of section I of the project should be removed altogether. The members of the committee did not support the proposal. I want to point out that these changes to the law are not the reanimation of the evacuators. The Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations already exists article 265 with the "Temporary Detainment of Means of Transportation" badge 2, which provides for temporary suspension of a vehicle for violation of the rules of stopping or parking by blocking or delivering for storage on a special site or parking site, including by means of a special evacuation car, is not only provided to employees of the State Automobile Inspection, not. Public services and only if the deployment of a delayed means of transport impedes traffic. In addition, an employee is obliged not only to draw up an administrative protocol for violations of parking or parking rules but also to make an appropriate reference to the detention of a means of transport. The bill proposes to complete the marked article 265 under the Ukrainian Code 2 on the administrative violation of part 3 of article 122 of the violation of the rules of stopping or parking. Part one of article 122 was deleted at the suggestion of the people’s representative of Moses. Agree that a driver's violation of the right to a stop or a parking lot of the time can't go through more than a quick ambulance or a fire car and regular buses and other means of transport. A car - driven trolleybus or bus stop causes passengers to leave unladen areas that violate the traffic rules. The bill is being drafted without notice by the Chief Legal Authority. In view of the committee’s presentation, he proposes to adopt the prescribed bill in second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u75	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, there is an offer to avoid a few differences in this law, to consider the next proposal. The point is, in the current edition of article 265. 2 The Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations uses the term "substantially obstructing". This term is highly subjective, not defined by any legislation. So I suggest you do the following editorially. In the text of the law, paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 should be supplemented by the words "come", and the word "essentially" should be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u77	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, respected colleagues, indeed, the availability of evaluation concepts in the Administrative Code is not always appropriate. In this case, it is a matter of the DAI’s assessment of whether the disruptions that cause parking are significant. So I think that the position of the committee would be the same as that of the people's MP, which is that the evaluation concept of "substantial violation" could be ruled out.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the committee, which is supported by the General Legal Authority on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Law amending articles 255, 265-2, 321-1, 322 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the Improvement of Individual Provisions, is based on the vote. Registration number 6480. Please vote. [[11:54:32]] For-34 Well, there's nothing to read. Come on, let's get this over with. Well, there's another one. But I'm voting on this proposal to re-send the bill. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:55:02]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft Law amending certain health legislation is being announced for consideration. [[to increase the control of the circulation of medicines, food products for special diet, functional food and dietary supplements]] Bachelor's Aunt Dmitry, please. Aunt Dmitryvo, let's do some repairs right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u79	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, draft Ukrainian law, 7007, was adopted by the Supreme Council as a foundation until 21 December 2010. You know what a very serious and responsible job we've had. I would like to recall that the bill proposes to amend four Ukrainian laws: the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law, the Drug Act, the Business Licensing Act and the Fourth, the Advertising Act. The bill is aimed at improving the quality of medicines, strengthening the state control of medicines produced in Ukraine and imported into Ukraine, reducing the prevalence of self-medical practices by restricting advertising for medicines to be prescribed only by a doctor and to be taken under the supervision of a doctor, medical supplies and thighs. Dear colleagues, 40 amendments were made by the people's deputies in preparation for the second reading. 33 amendments taken into account, rejected 7. The Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council has passed a bill without comment and recommends that it be adopted as a law as a whole. The Committee, at its meeting, supported the table of amendments and requested the Supreme Council to also support the bill on second reading and generally as a law. After the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, no objection to putting a committee proposal to the vote? The proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of the draft Act amending certain health legislation on strengthening the control of the circulation of medical supplies, food products for special diets, the consumption of functional food and dietary supplements is put to the vote. [[Registration number 7007]] Please determine by vote. [[11:57:55]] For 237 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear national deputies, there is a request to consider the proposal. The National Bank has requested the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft law amending article 7 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decree on the system of monetary regulation and monetary control. [[on the expansion of the use of Ukraine's currency]] And the committee has already considered this bill and also proposes that the Supreme Council include it in the agenda. That's an extra offer. [[Registration number 9488]] Please vote. [[11:58:50]] For 232 Decision taken. I'm also asking the secretariat to meet him at the evening session so that we can look at him. Dear colleagues, are we going to call it a break or are we going to keep working? I'm gonna take a break. In view of your friendly presentation of the matter that relates to the Rules, a break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, let's continue our work. I'd like to ask the national deputies to return to the session room. With regard to the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the improvement of the administration of public property. A working meeting was held with the participation of members of the Committee and the Chief Legal Authority, and a number of circumstances were identified. Warnings were taken and an acceptable decision was found. So I'd like to be a reporter. When there's a reporter, we'll be looking at this bill. I mean 9415. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts regulating the provision of separate administrative services is being announced for consideration. [[in the field of electricity and heat]] The reporter is Igor Głushchenko. Do you have Igor Mikolaiovich? Please, Igor Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The committee dealt with proposals and amendments that came from the legal entities of the legislative initiative, five national deputies of Ukraine, to the bill I submitted amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts governing the granting of individual administrative services, adopted by the Supreme Council in its first reading on the basis of October 4, 2011. [[Registration number 8729]] The committee's position on the proposals and amendments is reflected in the comparative tables of the bill. In view of the comments made by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council on the bill, I recommend that the bill be submitted for re-reading. As the author of the bill, they are right and deserve to be taken into account in order to avoid legal gaps and conflicts in legislation. At the same time, they cannot be taken into account in view of the requirement of article 116, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of what has been noted as the author, I ask the bill to be rejected. [[Registration number 8729]] At the next tenth session, a revised draft law on this issue will be introduced for consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, let's get out of this colossus like this. Since the committee, the committee's conclusion is to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept this proposal in the second reading and as a whole as a law, I will put to the vote this proposal to the committee. If the Supreme Council does not support the committee's proposal, then the bill will automatically be rejected. Is the offer understood? Is there no objection? None. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of the provision of separate administrative services in the field of electricity and heat. Registration number 8729. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:36:20]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Yes, it is suggested, Your Honor, that you consider the draft Act amending certain legislative acts regarding the provision of criminal justice. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Justice Committee, Valérie Bondik. Registration number 8084. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, your honor is presiding! The bill in the first reading was adopted by 366 votes. It is a testimony that it is really and compromiseable, not politicized, but essential. Because now, at the stage of criminal justice, at the stage of procedural evidence acquisition in the process, both civil and criminal, the role of expertise has become very widespread and very responsible. There are authorized experts in our country who have the licenses of the Ministry of Justice and scientific and expert institutions, the Institute of Forensics. In fact, on some issues, when, by the way, the scientific and expert board proposes to adopt this bill as a whole -- I have no comment. We looked at 20 amendments on the committee, 14 of them, 6. The committee therefore suggests that it be supported and accepted as a law as a whole. But there are some points that we can agree with. For example, when the defendant or another party, well, in the civil process, the defendant is denied an expert. So we will strengthen the role of the head of the scientific institution. So the director of the institute, who agrees with the same body of knowledge or investigation, appoints an expert. And in this case, the objectivity of the expertise will not in any way affect the rights of the accused or the defendant. Why? Because he has the right, according to the legislation or the intention to provide, or to appeal to, the authorities of the investigation, which does not have something to do with the appointment of this expertise. So according to the balance and equality of sides in the process, he can charge any action. Dear colleagues, we believe that the need for practice is due to the need for this bill to be adopted. But what I do know is, why should this bill be fragmented if a new Criminal Procedure Code is introduced into Parliament? But when that happens, and by the way, I'd go to the chairman, and I'd consider my speech as a reference, and I'd like to ask you to form, include a list of the developers of the new Criminal Procedure Code as one of the heads of the scientific institute, that is, the directors of these institutes, which are almost every area. Because the Criminal Procedure Code is done without them. And that's why this is the need for this bill. Dear colleagues, I would like to support this bill because it has no comments, generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts concerning the provision of criminal justice is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8084]] [[12:40:14]] For-45 The decision is not taken. The proposal to re-read the bill is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8084]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:40:40]] For 256 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Taxation in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the structure of the tax police]] [[Registration number 6682-1]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Vasil Mikolayovich Gritsak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u86	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! First of all, I'd like to congratulate you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, national deputies and militia personnel on a professional holiday. Today, there are 20 years of Ukrainian militia. With the celebration of you, dear colleagues who perform the ministry today and protect the rule of law in our country. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, adopted on 10 July 2010, on the basis of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Taxation in Ukraine. The bill provides for amendments to part one of article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on State Tax Service in Ukraine in part of the tax police structure. The bill adopted in the first reading was based, but on December 2, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code. So the structure of the tax police is already optimized, and that's almost what our bill proposes. Thus, the Committee considers that the statutory structure of the tax police is properly regulated. So Bill 6682-1 lost its relevance as a result of the adoption of another legislative act. I propose to withdraw the bill accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u87	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a vote to adopt a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Taxation in Ukraine, please vote. [[Registration number 6682-1 P1]] [[12:43:19]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement proposes that the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on combating human trafficking, which was adopted on 18 October 2011, be withdrawn. Are there other points to this? Please, Vladimir Kaplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u88	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! I read carefully the decision of the profile committee. However, I would like to emphasize, and I would like to draw your attention to the following. This bill is in no way inconsistent with the law of our colleague Zarubinsky, who was adopted. It's much deeper on some issues. In particular, it puts obstacles in the direction of the unregulated departure of our citizens abroad and the transfer into forced slavery. In view of this, he insists on introducing licensing and so forth. I have an offer as a co-author of the bill. Let's vote on this bill and re-read it. In this case, we will be able to work on it and in principle make it work for the benefit of the Ukrainians and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do this. Since the committee has not prepared a bill for the second reading, but has made a motion to withdraw it from consideration, I will put to the vote a motion to withdraw it. If the Supreme Council does not support it, then we are essentially obliged by the committee to prepare it for the second reading. It doesn't make sense to re-read it because there's no bill. We will simply accept the commission to prepare for consideration in the second reading. Is there no objection to such an offer? None. That's why I'm putting to the vote the first motion for a committee to adopt a draft decree as a decision to withdraw from the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation against trafficking in human beings. [[Registration number 8702/P1]] It's about taking a picture off the table, yeah. [[12:45:56]] For-25 The decision is not taken. So, your honorary colleagues, the commission remains valid for the committee to prepare for the next plenary week, which will take place in early January, for consideration of this bill. I'd like to prepare an appropriate letter to the committee. Dear colleagues, the National Security and Defence Committee proposes that the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Borders of Ukraine be withdrawn. [[on the establishment of the legal status and the regime of the adjacent zone of Ukraine]] The reporter, Alexander Matviyovich Skibinetsky, will explain to the committee on this subject. And then we'll determine by vote. Please, Alexander Matviyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the National Security and Defence Committee on December 7th, considered the bill tabled by the national deputy Kožara. National deputies of Ukraine, members of the committee unanimously approved the decision: to submit a draft decision rejecting the bill to the Supreme Council in accordance with article 123, paragraph 2, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council Rules. What is more, despite the proposal by the Committee to forward the bill to the legislators of the right of legislative initiative to work out the results of its first reading, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, despite an article of the Rules, is that in order to implement the provisions of the bill, many other laws needed to be amended, the bill was adopted on the basis. But the adoption of the bill as a law, even taking into account the right of the entities to propose it, will not only make it impossible for the domestic system to comply with the law, but also lead to systemic legal confusion and uncertainty in the legislation governing legal relations in the field. Since the implementation of the bill was to be implemented by the Government of Ukraine when it was adopted, the committee asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Azarov, to comment on the bill. The commission of the Prime Minister came to the committee with negative conclusions prepared by the Ministry of Justice and the State Border Service. Therefore, Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee believe that the adoption of a separate law on the adjacent zone of Ukraine should be an optimal and effective mechanism to address the implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea into Ukrainian law. In addition to implementing the rules of law, they should be defined: the order in which they are applied, the enforcement and enforcement of the rights of legal and natural persons, the designated entities, their powers to control their implementation, sanctions, the procedure for the application of those sanctions, violations, and changes to other laws. So on behalf of the committee, I propose to support our committee's proposal to reject the bill in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, in order to reject the draft law, with the wording more specifically proposed by the committee, we need to put it to a vote first on the adoption of it as a bill. And in the absence of the support of the Supreme Council, it will be automatically rejected. There would have to be a formulation on the withdrawal of the issue of giving to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, please, weighty colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote first a proposal for adoption in second reading and in general a bill of law. If you agree with the committee's point of view, you don't support it, which means that this bill is automatically being withdrawn. Is the offer understood? I put to the vote the first proposal for adoption in the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft law. [[Registration number 7407]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:50:26]] For 20 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving the Governance of State Property is under review. [[Registration number 9415]] On this point, we had a discussion, a meeting took place with representatives of committees and co-workers of the legal and scientific administration, agreed upon decisions. And we have every reason to put this question to a vote, taking into account the fact that the proposals of the deputies are practically all taken into account, and as a result of the agreed positions of the committee and the lawyers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have achieved a balanced outcome. There's no objection. A second reading proposal is put to the vote and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the administration of public property. [[Registration number 9415]] Please vote. [[12:51:42]] For 248 The law is passed. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening administrative responsibility for the violation of traffic rules through rail and passenger transport by road is being announced for consideration. [[8747 registration]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. Yes, and the reporter, please come to the rostrum. [[12:52:20]] For 229 Decision taken. Rapporteur: Deputy Minister of the Interior, Dmitry Mikolayovich Vorona, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Law Enforcement, Vasil Mikolayovich Gritsak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law was designed by the IMF to implement the decisions of the government commission to investigate the causes of the road accident, which took place on 12 October 2010 on the road to the town of Marganec. As a result of this horrendous accident and 44 bus passengers were killed, eight more passengers were injured. The bill is intended to strengthen administrative responsibility for violating the rules on the carriage of passengers by car. In particular, it is suggested that fines should be increased substantially, secondly, the imposition of a six - month - to - one - year suspension of the right to drive a vehicle, the almost double increase in penalties for breaches of the rules on the provision of services and safety requirements for the provision of passenger transport services, and the addition of the article to a new position relating to violations involving the carriage of passengers by buses during the night. The bill included comments by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on Legislative Protection. The Ministry, in turn, stands ready to participate actively in the drafting of the bill in preparing it for the second reading together with the National Deputies and the Main Committee. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u93	Thank you, too. Have a seat. Please, Basil Gretzak, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! A law enforcement committee has considered a bill amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to strengthen administrative responsibility for violations of the rules of movement by rail and passenger transport by road. [[No. 8747]] The bill proposes that article 123 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences be drafted in order to strengthen administrative responsibility for the violation of the rules on the carriage of passengers by road. In order to achieve this goal, it is also proposed to amend articles 133-1, 221, 222, 229, 255 of the Code and article 20 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act. After reviewing the bill, the committee notes that the current edition of article 123 is more effective because it contains a specific list of offences, and the proposed new edition is insurmountable, which may cause some difficulty in applying the article in practice. Yes, considering the changes to article 133-1 of the relevant adjustments, it is also necessary to authorize individual officials to impose administrative charges provided for in article 229. Article 235-1 of the Military Security Inspectorate of Military Traffic, the Rule of Law in the Armed Forces of Ukraine also needs to be adjusted accordingly. On the basis of the committee’s decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the return of Bill No. 8747 to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. I reported this law to the committee and have the right to my opinion. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u95	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u96	This bill is important enough for today, and I think it needs to be taken as a basis, and it needs to be corrected in a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, if there is a need to discuss this matter, please sign in. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. National MP Pachesuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u98	Dear National Deputies! The bill that is being proposed today needs to be redrafted is clear. But it should be accepted in the first reading because the effects you have heard with the arrivals cannot be indifferent to us. I propose to adopt the bill in the first reading, to work on the second reading, taking into account all the nuances that are there. Because the safety of the passengers is primarily the safety of the passengers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u99	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u100	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! If we look at the contents of this bill, we feel that it is objectively reflecting the problems that today are in violation of traffic rules. If we see the media -- and we see them -- almost a quarter of all problems are related to traffic. But on the other hand, if you take this relative proportion of road traffic accidents that relate to the wrong movement through railways, the consequences are just terrible, so obviously these are the biggest disruptions that lead to the biggest casualties. And the fact that the increased responsibility for such violations is correct, that is, the legislative initiative is positive. You can agree with colleagues who work until the second reading, but so that the child called is not molded out of a pipe, that is, so that the responsibility is greatly enhanced. I want to say again, these sacrifices that make these disruptions in the area of moving through, well, it's hard to compare. The People's Party faction will support this bill on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u101	Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u102	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's Group on Reforms for the Future, having considered this bill, first expressed its position unanimously that we will not support this bill in view of the following: that there are competences that belong exclusively to the court. And only by decision of the court can you remove a means of transport or impose administrative arrest. Well, dear fellows, we live in a democratic European state. But after the talks of today’s colleagues, we came to the conclusion that the matter could be corrected for a second reading. If we correct these problems with you in our second reading, we support them in our second reading. Because, in fact, what is happening now in the railways is worth paying attention to in order to settle this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration point out that this bill is poorly prepared for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, all the speakers are alone in settling this problem so that we have fewer victims and more discipline on railways and automobiles. So, dear colleagues, I'm voting on the first proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. In the event of his adoption, the committee will have to carry out serious work on him. If the first proposal is not supported, then the second sentence will be put to the vote: the return of the bill to the subject of the right of the legislative initiative to redraft it. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase administrative responsibility for violations of the rules of movement by rail and passenger transport by road. Registration number 8747. [[13:01:27]] For 238. Decision taken. A draft Law amending article 122 of the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing the Responsibility of Drivers of Transportation Means for Violations of Traffic Regulations and Barriers for Road Vehicles, 9028 is being announced for consideration. The request is similar to that of the committee: to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:02:05]] For 224 Decision taken. Reporter – Deputy Minister of Interior Dmitry Mikolayovich Vorona, co-reporter will be Igor Savchenko. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u104	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the request of the Cabinet of Ministers, as part of the preparation of the infrastructure for the final part of the Europe-2012 football championship in Ukraine. The bill proposes to strengthen administrative responsibility for non-advocacy to the means of transport by route, including the violation of the rules of movement and stop on the lane for means of transport by making appropriate changes to article 122 of the Code of Administrative Offences. In particular, in the proposed editorial, it is suggested that offences be qualified for part three of the above article, which entails imposing a fine of 30 to 40 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. The implementation of the Ukrainian Law will not require additional costs from the state budget. The bill is accepted without notice by all interested central executive authorities. The adoption of the bill will ensure that traffic lanes are used to reduce traffic congestion on the streets of the city, thus preventing road safety offences. And I would also like to welcome all internal affairs personnel to the 20th anniversary of the Ukrainian militia and all the national MPs. Please support our bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u105	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement, Igor Savchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u106	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legislative Security and Law Protection prepared a bill of 9028 for first reading by the Cabinet of Ministers. The draft law provides for amendments to article 122 of the Code on Administrative Offences (to increase the liability of drivers of transport vehicles to break the rules of traffic and stop on a lane for means of transport. The need for adoption of the bill, its purpose, legal aspects, and the position of the authorities concerned were explained in a report by a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. After reviewing the bill, the committee believes that its adoption will help prevent traffic safety offences, increase the level of accountability of citizens, ensure the use of routes of destination, reduce congestion and phenomena on the streets of the city. The committee agrees with the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority that the bill requires editorial work. In the light of the Committee’s presentation, it is possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on the basis of the first reading, that the committee be entrusted with the task of revising the proposed bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions made by the legislators. The committee is to submit an amended draft for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Julia Kovalevska, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I think, increasing the administrative responsibility of road users who create obstacles to road transport is absolutely logical and necessary. The use of means of transport is linked to the transport of large numbers of passengers. First of all, then, we need to be concerned about the safety of people. Traffic vehicles used to transport people tend to have large gauges, and given that there are people in the living room, the weight of such a vehicle increases considerably. So the motion and maneuverability of these things are much smaller than, let's say, in a car. As a result, when roadblocks are removed that are created by other drivers, they are greatly advanced. Likely, each of us has witnessed a situation in which a driver of a road vehicle whose other road users are unable to move away from a stop is able to take decisive action, sometimes even creating an emergency traffic situation. I think we need to create special favourable conditions for the means of transport that would allow them to move in our cities by following a schedule. Anyone who has ever used ground public transportation in his life realizes that when other participants try to create a roadblock, the entire traffic schedule, the entire route, is cut short. This leads to a breakdown of schedules, a buildup of passengers at stops, overcrowding of transport facilities, and other inconveniences for people. I will also point out that Ukraine will soon accept the Euro-2012, and we expect a large number of tourists to arrive and, as a result, travel, and this will make road traffic more and more alive. And we need to prepare now. So I suggest you take this project as a basis and work with the comments of the Chief Scientific Expert.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u109	Yes, Taras Cranville, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Honorable colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! We in the MP's Reforms for the Future have discussed this bill and designed such things. First. The legal and even human responsibility of drivers is very often extremely low. When moral factors do not work, legal factors are likely to work. We have all witnessed many times when, from coaches, from trolleybuses, from busses, the driver actually has to land on the roadside, because the stop on which the safe landing of passengers is supposed to be occupied by some easy looking people, usually not found. Another point that we also note under this law is, unfortunately, that the normal bands for general use in Ukraine are too small. So the implementation in this part of the law will, unfortunately, be limited enough. And the third thing that we think we need to go into the second reading. In order for the law to be applied as accurately and as efficiently as possible, it may be necessary to make the text more precise and to add to the lines that are special for general transport vehicles, as well as to assign tram tracks. Obviously you can think of this as being part of understanding these lines for general transport. But in order for there to be no diversity in the courts, so that a major violation, which is very often blocked in the streets of Ukrainian cities today, may need to be completed, for such violations are very common. Obviously, those reasons are sufficient for our parliamentary group to vote in favour of the bill in the first reading and to appeal to its colleagues on the Supreme Council in the same way in the first reading to support it, but to make some adjustments to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u111	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u112	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I have come to the rostrum on purpose, so it is easier for me to address government officials. Dear colleagues, I have counted eight bills over the last six months, which are proposed by the government to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. Eight. And they all refer to very fragmented, sequencing things, even though they're the right things. Well, it seems to me that it would be wise to change to such a serious code to make it more systematic so that it does not just involve a violation, so to speak, of course, for the means of travel. We need to put in a serious bill and change what you want to change, or we're going to be dealing with these fragments all the time. It's a key position, I think you should be interested in it yourself. Once again, eight drafts of detailed, detailed, six months. Too much. As far as this bill is concerned, the colleagues here spoke correctly, but they did not say one thing. You know, every big city, or municipality of a big city, and even a medium city, is interested in as many people as possible using passenger transport, road transport. Because it allows more people to be transported immediately and thus reduces the stress on road infrastructure. As long as road transport is not granted privileges, in a good sense, separate lanes will not be available, as long as the individual traffic is likely to increase. Everyone seems to have been here abroad and seen, if there's a lane where the "bus" is written, whatever traffic that the cork is not on the road, on this lane nobody's going, it's free for not only buses, but for road transport, as well as for police cars, ambulances and so on. So once again, government officials, you've put the right idea in the bill, but you'd still like to get the system closer to the legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Law on Amendments to Article 122 of the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility of Drivers of Vehicles for Violations of Traffic Regulations and Barriers for Road Vehicles. Please vote [[13:13:24]] For 268. Decision taken. A draft Law on the Specialities of Health Institutions is being published for consideration. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:13:55]] For 235 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Health Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Anishchenko. Correspondent is Head of the Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachteyev Health Committee. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u114	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the adoption of the law, is determined by the need for a clear definition of the legal field to carry out financial and economic activities of health institutions of all forms of property, as well as certain features of this activity. The bill defines the order of establishment, termination of the activities of health institutions, the specificities of their activities and the classification of these institutions, the identification of their types and types, the specificities of the activities of natural persons entrepreneurs in the field of health care, the optimization and structural restructuring of the health facilities network, the introduction of new financial mechanisms aimed at improving the efficiency of the use of available financial, human and material resources. A separate section provides for the implementation of contracts for public health care between the chief budget manager of the relevant level and health care institutions. The bill is a logical extension of the law amending health - care legislation to improve the provision of medical care. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u115	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please, Aunt Dmitry, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u116	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, the Committee has considered this bill on 14 December, and we understand that it is very important because it contains a number of important issues that are necessary today for health sector reforms. The classification proposed in the draft law offers a clear distinction between health institutions that will provide primary, secondary and tertiary health care to citizens. It also provides for the updating of the current management mechanism of health institutions, the creation of conditions to improve the use of financial, material and personnel resources. However, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council points to the premature adoption of the bill and a number of its shortcomings, to the fact that it should be prepared after the completion of the relevant pilot project on health reform in Winnitsk, Dnepropetrovsk, Donetsk and the city of Kiev. The integrated analysis of the pilot project must be taken into account. The National Deputies of the Health Committee also made a number of comments. One of the most important comments is that there is no specific provision in the text of the Act on the modalities for the establishment, reorganization, re-profiling and financing of health institutions. The Committee is of the view that the lack of legislation that should define the scope of accountability of health institutions will also create prerequisites for the lack of transparency of the management system in the health sector. The Committee noted that the bill did not have any specific features of the activities of various health institutions, their units, their specific rights and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u117	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u118	People's deputies are being proposed for further refinement. But given that article 114 of the Supreme Council Rules provides for re-reading. I would like to vote in favour of this proposal for a second reading. This proposal has been agreed with the Ministry of Health, and we will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u119	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, the interesting question is one more time. What will that change? Do you want to take your time? Are you going to change the text of the bill? No, it's not. If so, we should either take it as a basis and work it out logically. And if not, return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to introduce a new bill. Dear colleagues! I propose making decisions that will give some progress. Let's just put off the problem, let's put off. Let's sign up for a bill if that's what it takes. Please sign in. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u120	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Of course, according to the name, purpose, and purpose of the bill, the need for health care in reform is essential. At the same time, I agree with the opinion of the Committee and the Scientific and Expert Administration that the bill contains a great deal of inaccuracies, both terminological and declarative, about certain provisions; it does not comply with the existing laws already in force, particularly the Act amending the Health Protection Framework. And with regard to health reform in Winnitsky, Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, and Kiev, this bill is already amending health facilities. At the same time, changes to the Health Law Framework have been envisaged since January 1, 2012, and the bill, dated January 1, 2015. Also with regard to the Health Reform Act in Kiev, Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, and Vinnitsk areas, it is envisaged that the Cabinet of Ministers will make appropriate changes based on experience in these areas and will make changes to this law. The law will also provide for new legislative novelties before the Law on Health Reform comes to an end. And in general, there are many inaccuracies that only complicate the work. The main reformers in health care, without even agreeing with health institutions, have now been the governors who conduct them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u121	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u122	Dear Mr. Golovo, a specialist in social health reform, Mr. Yaroslav Sukhoma, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u123	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u124	Thank you, Your Honor, for your word. I'm right there with the specifics, I'm curious, today the attention of all of Ukraine is attached to that experiment, and I don't even know what to call it, some kind of social depravity, what's going on in the health system. It's not reform, it's filth. I want to ask the Minister of Health. How will it help to improve health care in the town of Wrinnitsky’s Rage, the town of pensioners, and the veterans, where a district hospital is now in our sight? Has anyone tried the heads of the Department of Defense of this town with severe pain or high temperatures to reach the district or district hospitals on a crowded route? Colleagues, look in the explanatory note. This law will increase the responsibility of health officials and labor groups for what, the quality of service? No, it's not. Using available financial resources. Remember! God be with you! What kind of financial resources? What's the use? When was the last time you were in these district hospitals? Instead of contributing to the improvement of work, you're doing questionable experiments to provide a material and technical base. I propose that this bill simply be rejected. He's not talking about anything at first. Second of all, it doesn't make any sense. Most importantly, it goes against the basic basic Health System Basics Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u125	Thank you. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u126	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Honourable Chairman, Honourable Minister and Honourable Citizens of Ukraine! Today, we are so involved in various reforms that under the expression of reform, people understand the total destruction of everything there is. Let's at least think about what we want to do. As we move forward, we want to expand the health system reform experiment that we are conducting in the areas that my former associates have called, to the whole territory of Ukraine. Instead of waiting for it to end, it is now being introduced into Ukraine. Any reform is primarily about getting a new quality. To get a new quality, you have to invest a lot of money. We do not want to invest in money, for we say it is not, and we want to destroy what is today at the expense of the so - called reform and the closure of health institutions. I'm drawing your attention to the fact that, look, we're destroying it without this bill. Today, 63 percent of the budget allocated to health care in the Poltava region is needed. That means, or we close and shorten these workers without even waiting for this bill. Next. I am also today, Mr. Minister, drawing your attention to the need to sign that order for quotas for highly specialized medical care in academic institutions, which you have a project. I fully support it, and the faction suggests that the government should be returned, that the bill should be rejected. It's off-time, it's on its way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u127	Soročinska Kirilenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, our Group of Reforms for the Future also supports all those who have just spoken and talked about the fact that this bill will not speed up, will not improve control, nor the quality of medical care, both in rural hospitals and in district hospitals. Because of this, the Reforms for the Future faction asks for attention and preparation for the adoption of legislation throughout the country and the Health Insurance Act. We can support this law, we can only support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u129	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, I think the logic of health care should be the following. If a bill on the reform of the health system, such as an experiment in Winnitsky Dnipropetrovska, Donetsk and Kiev, has already been adopted, as we have suggested, unfortunately, the committee has not supported us, we need to conduct parliamentary hearings in the near future, analyze the problems of reform in these regions, to conclude that perhaps this is a reform, I think we will come to that conclusion, to close a number of health institutions. And when we come to conclusions, we need to keep moving, that is, we can't, without understanding the situation of how it is going in the regions today, keep making the situation more difficult. That is why I also believe that we should not rush into adopting this bill, but that we should hold appropriate parliamentary hearings and analyse the situation in the next session. And he wanted to draw the attention of Alexander Volodymyrovich in the context of this to me and to Irina Heratschenko, the national deputy, to the collective of the Cherkasian maternity home number 2, which also says that this reform has led to the beginning of closing the maternity homes. The city authorities explain this by uniting, well, but as a result of the merger, most of the doctors of this maternity home are out of work. I would ask the minister to look at this situation, because it's not a banal thing, it's about our future, it's about moms who want to raise their children in normal conditions. So the history of the merger of two maternity homes in Chercas is extremely responsible, and I would ask you to respond properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u131	Please, Tetjana Bacheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I can only count on your statement as a campaign. We have been saying for 20 years that medicine is extremely critical, that chronic underfunding, low material base, the lowest wages of medical doctors have led Ukrainians to live less than 14 years in European countries, that we have children between the ages of 6 and 14 with 3, 6 and more chronic diseases, that today it is not possible to provide medical care, where primary, where secondary, where third. To this end, the President of Ukraine initiated reforms. But four pilot regions have been selected for reform. Two of them expressed their own desire, and two were accepted as an agricultural region, the Vinnitsk region, Dnepropetrovska, as an industrial region. There is a need for a legislative framework for reforms. We've prepared it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u133	Come on, let's get it over with!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u134	And these bills are needed, but the law is not prepared because there was very little time. And according to article 114 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, a re-readable first reading is available. We have already worked with the Ministry of Health for two days, so we will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u135	Thank you. We have completed our consideration of the matter. I'm going back to that. Articles 114 and 116 we all know. If the committee that considered this bill wrote that we were sending for re-reading and in the process of re-first reading we would count first, third, tenth, then it would be work. And so we're going to go back, we're going to sit on the committee, and then we're going to take it out again, and we're going to tell each other again that we have children dying. Children will not live longer than that. So I think this is a shared responsibility for both the committee and the ministry. That is why I am voting on the proposal in accordance with the Rules. First. Acceptance as a foundation. If not, return to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further processing. This is going to be a real position. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to identify yourself now in the voting process. The proposal, first, on adoption as the basis of the draft Law on the Specialities of Health Institutions. [[Registration number 9386]] Please vote. [[13:31:12]] For the The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development and the introduction of the amended version. [[Registration number 9386]] Please vote. [[13:31:41]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law on a State-wide system of emergency medical care is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9387]] The proposal is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:32:09]] For 228 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Health Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Anishchenko. Correspondent is Head of the Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachteyev Health Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u136	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished deputies! With the aim of adapting Ukraine's legislation to European standards, many European countries and neighbouring countries have studied legislation. Adaptation also requires a Euro-2012 in Ukraine and Poland. The creation of a modern system of emergency medical care in Ukraine is linked not only to medical measures, but also to a greater extent to the replacement of the principles of management, financing, administrative and territorial subordination. Such processes should be defined legislatively, as the most painful of them is the change of owners from district and city level to district level. The creation of a single organizational center will eventually bring all available resources together and provide effective control not only for their work but also for everything they need — from car to medicine. And the main thing that brings this combination is monitoring the citizen's call, the process of providing medical care to the person who's been notified of the completion of the call. This is the purpose of the establishment of operational control services in the headquarters. With a view to implementing the standards for the arrival of ambulances at the site of the call, they are evenly located in the area of permanent or temporary accommodation. Since all available resources will be subordinated to the area and will be financed from the district budget, the famous boundaries of the areas disappear when rapid medical assistance could not go to another area to provide medical care. Emergency medical care will be provided according to the principle of a single medical space. The system in place should ensure that emergency medical care is provided in both everyday and emergency situations. To this end, a medical disaster unit is being formed within the center. The system is ready to cooperate with emergency formations at number 12.11.2.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u137	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the Ukrainian bill on the creation of a state-wide system of single medical care, emergency medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u139	Thank you, too. Aunt Dmitryvna Bahechev, head of the Health Committee. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u140	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, on 14 December the Committee considered this bill, which is scheduled to enter on 1 January 2013. The Act provides for the establishment of a national, regional Kiev, Sevastopol City Emergency Health and Disaster Medicine Centre as the main structural unit of the State-wide emergency care system. The establishment of a single State system of emergency medical care is a very important issue, as its solution to the direct question is to ensure the right of citizens to health guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. Our Committee also made a number of comments on the bill. And the Committee's decision: Return for further refinement. The Committee's decisions are also attributable to a number of very serious comments by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, which recommends that the bill be submitted for finalization. Attention is drawn to the vast number of declarative provisions of the bill and its contradictions with the current laws of Ukraine. The main drawback is the lack of clear procedures for the establishment of emergency health and medical centres for disasters, their ownership, funding, and the way in which they interact with health institutions. Certain provisions, as I said, were no longer in conformity with the Constitution and early adoption of the bill was no longer appropriate, as appropriate pilot projects for reform in those regions in which they had already begun should also be completed. In the view of the Committee, if such shortcomings exist, the bill would not allow for a single State-wide system.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u141	Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u142	The committee's decision is final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up. Names of the national deputies please be brought out. Grivkowski, please. You don't? He's refusing. Dinner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u144	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The two bills that the Ministry of Health and the Health Committee have given us today are very relevant to date. They are relevant because, indeed, we and the Supreme Council, the President, are committed to reforming health and to genuine health reform. What I would like to wish for a colleague, Minister of Health of Ukraine. Before passing such important bills to the people, Alexander Vladimirovic, there are enough specialists in Ukraine to form a normal bill, because the bill comes from the Cabinet of Ministers. And such incomplete, shameful bills are prohibited for the people. Next. You want to do it by European standards. Go to Europe, get specialists, get it all right in one piece, like a candidate's dissertation or a doctor's degree, and then take it to the hall. I fully support Tatiana Dmitrievna Bachteev, who needs to be sent to finalize this bill. And when this is fully explored, because it is necessary to create centres and emergency medical care, and disaster medicine is the same. This was established in Russia as early as 1996. Therefore, our faction will vote to finish the bill and then to put it into the conference room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u145	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u146	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" group has a clear position on this bill. We should not vote and support standards that have not yet been worked on in principle. If the main thesis that is happening today in the hall is that we take four pilot regions and we want to move forward in front of our father, by creating a legislative, perhaps confusion that will lead to the loss of Ukrainian citizens' last medical care. Why are we doing this? Next question. If the bill violates the existing Constitution and narrows down rights by reducing the number of medical facilities and assistance that is provided today, why vote? If you look at the figures that are presented here in this bill, look at this: Today, by reference to the law, the rapid self-sustainment units are 96. So today, there are 902 emergency emergency services in all medical facilities. So this law is actually proposed for a period of two or three years to reduce it three times. In what way? To this day, people in the country are dying simply because they cannot be reached by a doctor. That's a fact. What are we doing? Let's make this wiser. We're not going to rush, we're going to try to honor the minister today, really, he's been working and he wants to make it to the one center, the goal is understood. However, let's go to work, wait, accept a wise normal bill and give the Ukrainians normal emergency assistance. Therefore, the MP's Reform for the Future will not support this bill in the first reading and insists that we send this bill for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u147	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u148	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Indeed, the necessary reform process, including the health system in Ukraine, is unfortunately not only painful and difficult, but can have very tragic and irreversible consequences. Colleagues who spoke in this room, either on the left or on the right, expressed such thoughts. Judge for yourself. I have in my hands a letter from a cardiologist, the head of the emergency aid station in Kiev Styran, headed by the committee of the Bachelor's Aunt Dmitry. He writes the same thing here. It's not a bill. Of course, we need to move forward because life is moving forward. But if we do not create a quality new, we can destroy what is still there. And in view of that, I would like to mention the principles of medicine: seven times the measure, and then the cut-- do the surgery, non-nighter-- no harm. The necessary legislative acts that have been prepared by the Ministry require, of course, refinements, because they are more likely to damage what is, without creating a qualitatively optimal new and better one. That's why the faction of "Our Ukraine" supports the proposal of the head of the Committee of the Bachevos to finalize the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u149	Cowchenko Mikola, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u150	Cowchenko, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, today the people will think that when we consider these issues, we think of how members care for the health of our nation. It's the other way around. The thing is, why are we afraid to tell people the truth? The reform, and in the coffeehouses, the “destruction” of the medical sector is now being carried out by an unprofessional economist in the face of Akimova, who has taken over all areas today, has taken over the Ministry's specialists and is practically its initiative to reform it. I am not afraid to say today that if we move the issue of the exit from reform into the room, there will be both Vinnic and Dnepropetrovsk and Donetsk. Therefore, you do not ask, Vladimir Mihajlovich, this question for consideration. I'm ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. This is the view of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. So the vote will be in this order. The first proposal is about adoption as the basis of the draft law. In case of non-support, a second proposal will be put to the vote – on the return of the draft bill. Is there no objection? None. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Law on a State-wide system of emergency medical care. [[Registration number 9387]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:45:03]] For-0 Anti - 1 Abstaining — 1 No vote – 318 The proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work is put to the vote. [[Registration number 9387]] Please vote. [[13:45:33]] For 242 Decision taken. That is, the bill has been returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. At the same time, dear colleagues, on your behalf, I thank the Minister for coming and communicating with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as opposed to some others who avoid reporting bills to the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, the draft Internal Trade Act is under review. [[Registration number 9443]] The committee would like to discuss the matter with a reduced procedure, please. Take it off the vote. Please, Alexander Ephraim. Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u152	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, is that it is indeed a necessary law. But we've been working in faction for almost two weeks now to connect to the chamber that was adopted. And to date, the same has been discussed on this issue, and we believe that it will take some time, well, about two weeks, to finalize this law. That's why we're asking you not to consider it today, but to postpone it in about two weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the proposal to defer consideration of the matter to the beginning of the following year. Because if you say the next thing, it'll scare a lot of people. Is there no objection? Should we vote? Then let's vote and take down any problems. It's about delaying the consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 9443]] Please vote. [[13:47:33]] For 268. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Roads Act concerning the classification of road traffic in general use. Short-circuited? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:48:06]] For 231 Decision taken. So, how about we just take it as a base? Well, by 2:00 a.m., what was exhausted at the morning session, and at the evening session, we had to look at it further. Is there a need to report? Please make a brief report then. Vladimir Fedorovich Demiscan, then head of the committee, and in general, we will vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u154	Thank you. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the national parliament, you are invited to consider the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Roads Act. [[concerning the classification of car routes for general use]] The bill is designed to implement the Presidential Decree on the 2011 National Action Plan for the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme. Approval of a new road qualification will optimize the network of public road traffic and local roads for further transfer to the area of administration of local executive authorities. The bill was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Transport and Communications. The adoption of the bill is necessary to continue the implementation of the credit agreement to improve the transport and operation status of roads in approaches to Kiev, and this is a condition of the European Bank for Reconstruction approved at a joint meeting in London. Ratified. This treaty was ratified by the Supreme Council on June 15, 2011. Please accept the law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u155	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Now let's listen to the committee's conclusion. Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich is head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u156	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief on the committee's decision. The committee's decision is next. As a result of the review, the committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Roads Act. [[concerning the classification of car routes for general use]] [[Registration number 9376]] [[of 1 November]] But, honourable national MPs, during the drafting of the bill, it was necessary to redefine one of the bill's rules, namely paragraph 1 of paragraph 11. The first draft paragraph, the words “between” need to be deleted, as such, which are unnecessary in terms of the content of the text. And the committee proposes, taking into account editorial clarification, to adopt the law in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u157	Thank you. Well, then, dear fellows, let's take it, shall we? There is a proposal for a bill to be adopted on the basis and, in general, taking into account the editorial refinement that the committee head has outlined. Registration number 9376, please vote. [[13:52:13]] For 266 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! Announcing the draft Act on State Financial Support for Export Activities, 9373. The offer, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:52:40]] For the 220. Decision taken. The reporter is the first Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Vadim Kopilov, please. Be prepared by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u158	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill envisages the creation of legal preconditions for the introduction in Ukraine of a system of state financial support for the export of high-tech goods. Similarly to the appropriate systems in the WTO member countries. At the same time, the only officially recognised WTO and the active mechanism of state export support is insurance and export credit. The draft law identifies the main thrusts of State financial support for export activities – export credit insurance and external economic contracts, guarantees to exporters for international tenders, etc. This involves the creation of appropriate infrastructure through the establishment of a state-owned export credit agency. It will be created as a financial institution that will provide insurance and guarantees for appropriate transactions. The project also lays down the conditions for State financial support for expert activities through insurance and guarantees. As a result of the implementation of the law, it is envisaged to increase annual export volumes of goods by more than 2.5 per cent for ensuring the protection of Ukrainian exporters from the risk of non-payments and financial losses as a result of the introduction of an export insurance system, increased access to export credits, the expansion of Ukrainian commodity markets by providing guarantees to exporters in international tenders, and so on. It is proposed that the draft law be adopted as a factor in supporting exports according to WTO requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u159	Karakai will report from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, the mechanism is used in many developed countries of the world for export support. In our committee's view, it is extremely relevant to Ukraine, considering that most of our gross domestic product is formed by export and export companies themselves. The committee considered the bill and suggested that it be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, who insists on expressing their position on this bill? You don't? The committee's offering to take it as a basis. The main scientific and expert management also considers it appropriate to recommend taking into account, when preparing for the second reading of the comments of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act on State Financial Support for Export Activities. Please vote. [[13:56:09]] For 265 Decision taken. The committee suggests that he be instructed to prepare the bill for the second reading under reduced procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote and I'm asking you to support, let the committee work. [[13:56:41]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have yet another draft of the Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (about environmental audit) to be held in the morning. The committee decided to reject the bill. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! If the author insists and has another opinion, then we will have to discuss the matter. Therefore, there is a suggestion that we bring the matter to the fore for consideration at the evening meeting. We will continue to consider the draft laws on which the Supreme Council of Ukraine today has decided to include in the agenda and on which committee decisions are made. Therefore, we have enough work to do for the evening session. And then, dear colleagues, this bill will be considered first after the break. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. At 16 o'clock we'll continue our plenary work. Thank you.
