ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:17]] There were 366 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of our colleagues Humenjuk Igor Mikolaiovich and Zruvica Aleksija Valeriovich. Let us welcome them and wish them health and success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on 20 April 2011. 14 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 2 laws were passed, 12 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. Dear National Deputies! Yesterday, during the discussion of a number of issues, there were strong calls for each MP to carry out his constitutional duty to work in the session room and to make decisions on his own. I call on faction leaders to work with factions to improve our working discipline. And first of all, I call on all of them to be in the workplace who appealed yesterday to the MPs' responsibility. Dear National Deputies! Two factions: the Faction BUT – Fatherland, the faction "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense" – filed an application for a 30-minute recess to hold consultations on issues of order. At the same time, the initiators of this statement are ready to make a statement now. The word is Yuri Odarchenko, the faction "BUT is the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! The Yulia Timoshenko faction – "The Fatherland" has been forced to say again, the next opposition Wednesday yesterday ended with a cynical mockery of the majority. What did the ruling part of Parliament not like? Is it not a challenge to take the initiative to settle a violent pension injustice, to set up smart pensions, and, for special reasons, to make a name for scholarships? This is an understandable and acceptable alternative to the absurd increase in retirement age, especially for women. They themselves agreed that this was a very good and timely initiative, and as a result, there was no voice. To laugh, the coalition also raised our offer to save small and medium businesses from total destruction. After the adoption of the Tax Code, more than 400,000 entrepreneurs have stopped their activities because of pressure from officials and vetting structures. And closing this business is, at least, 3-4 people on the street without a job. And family members. This is the fate of millions of fellow countrymen. Do you not know that your tax code forbids the production of relationships between legal and natural persons? As a result, more than 200,000 people have already lost their jobs. The Yulia Timoshenko faction, Fatherland, is well aware of the need for reform, but we are behind the reforms that are being implemented to improve the lives of the people. So far you're making them at the expense of the people. For people, the promises of far - reaching prospects are being echoed from the authorities every day. Nevertheless, citizens are forced to fight every day for their survival. It is thanks to your decision that prices, tariffs, the terrible Tax Code, the pension, land, and labour reform are growing unrestrainedly. You have no idea what their consequences are for ordinary citizens today, for the whole country. During the last year, the so - called reforms and promises of power have actually put millions of Ukrainians at the brink of poverty. Today, for most Ukrainians, the question of how to feed their families has become the most important. That's why our faction offers daily bills that can actually provide the most necessary protection for citizens. Instead of supporting them, most in the Supreme Council have adopted very different laws: increasing the judiciary for citizens, paying for the services of natural monopolies, others, or laws that are needed by the authorities now as a single action to deal with opposition representatives. Our faction claims that there is still time for us to move on and work together to stop the complete chaos in which the country is constantly rolling.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u3	Yes. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now consider the issues set out in the April 21 calendar. The question of the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, Lysin, is raised. Vladimir Makeenko is head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! According to article 81, part two, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine and part two, article 222 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the Committee at its meeting on 20 April of this year considered the suspension of the powers of Ukraine's national deputy, Lisina Mikoli Pavlovich, in connection with death, and decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukraine's national deputy, Lisina Mikoli Pavlovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u5	Honourable National MPs, I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Lisina Mikoli Pavlovich. Please vote. [[10:08:07]] For 276 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the participation of the national jury]] Since today is just the last day of the proposal, the committee is working on the bill accordingly. And there is a request that we, regardless of the decision we have made earlier, postpone consideration of this bill to the final preparation committee, which today will receive the final proposals if they are with the Ukrainian National Deputies. Do you agree? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is suggested that you consider the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to improve the free system in the field of economic activity. [[Registration number 7413-d]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We propose to your attention a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the permit system in the field of economic activity. The draft was prepared for second reading. [[No. 7413-d]] The purpose of the bill is to strengthen the monitoring of compliance with legislation on the issue of permits and to strengthen the liability of authorization authorities for violations of the law. You are aware that a mass of violations are being committed in the process of issuing permits. At their discretion, the authorizing authorities often delay the process and change its order and are not responsible for it. You realize that this is an opportunity offered by law enforcement today. Many of the rules governing the permit system are now contradictory and inaccurate. Some issues remained generally unresolved outside the legislative framework, such as liability for violations of the law in the area of the authorization system. It is clear that such a permit system in our country cannot exist effectively. What is proposed in this bill. This would provide for the administrative responsibility of the licensing authorities for a violation of the law in the issuance of permit documents. In addition, failure to comply with the requirements of the competent authorities to address such violations. Second. This will ensure that the law is enforced in the issuance of permits by means of planned and unplanned inspections by the Entrepreneurship Committee. In the view of the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise, the adoption of the amendments contained in the bill is useful and timely. Only two amendments were received for the second reading of the project, one of which was taken into account and one was rejected. I would like to conclude by recalling that Ukraine holds the most recent seats in world ratings on the ease of creating and operating business. By adopting this law, at least technically we can adjust and improve our external indicators. The Committee proposes Bill 7413-d to adopt as a whole as a law. Dear colleagues! I ask you to support this decision of the Committee and to begin the process of introducing in our legislative field the responsibilities of the licensing authorities and the responsibilities of the officials on which they are entrusted with public functions that they are ineffectively carrying out. Please support this bill. Vladimir Mihajlovich, please consider the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u7	Dear National Deputies! Here are some amendments. The 1st Amendment of Kseniya Lapina is included. The 2nd Amendment of Anatolia Seminoga is not included. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yes, all the other adjustments taken into account. There are only observations of law enforcement, respected colleagues. They conclude that the law proposes that non-planned checks be carried out solely with the permission of the President of Ukraine. In this way, the Chief Legal Authority believes that this will lead to the President of Ukraine having to sign the commission to carry out pre-planned checks. The committee believes that a bill should be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law. Is there no objection? Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to improve the permit system in the field of economic activity, please vote. [[Registration number 7413-d]] [[10:13:50]] For 298 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the introduction of the principle of State registration of legal persons on the basis of a model statute is being submitted for consideration. [[Registration number 8146]] The rapporteur is the head of the Royal Natalia Yuriovna Committee. Please, Natalia Yuriovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I propose to your attention the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of the principle of State registration of legal persons on the basis of a model statute. The draft was prepared for second reading. [[No. 8146]] The purpose of the bill is to simplify the procedure for the establishment of a legal person using a model constituent document as a model statute. It is therefore proposed to simplify the process of preparing documents for registration of a legal person. You know that writing the founding documents in our country is not only a complicated but also a costly matter. The registration procedure requires the production of multiple copies of the statute, and many provisions are required in the constituent documents. You know that a large part of these provisions are simply rewritten by the founders of the bill as a word in the statute. Clearly, the emergence of a model statute as a model constituent document greatly facilitates the establishment of a legal entity for both entrepreneurs and public registrars. What is proposed in this bill. First. Institute the principle of State registration of legal persons on the basis of the model constituent document of the model statute. Second. To define that the model statute is a model constituent document approved by Kabmin and is used for the creation and implementation of legal entities in the relevant institutional and legal forms of ownership. It regulates the legal status, rights, responsibilities and relations associated with the establishment, management and economic activities of legal persons. Third. To determine that enterprises, regardless of their form of ownership, form of organization and legal form, as well as the constituent documents on which they are established and operated, whether by statute or model statute, have equal rights and equal responsibilities. It is proposed that legal persons acting under the statute be given the right to switch to a model statute and vice versa. The second reading of the draft had received 68 amendments, 47 of which had been taken into account, 21 amendments had been rejected. In the view of the Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee, the adoption of the amendments set out in the bill is useful and timely. In conclusion, we can today, by adopting Bill 8146, simplify the procedure for registration of lawyers and facilitate business creation. Our committee proposes that this bill be passed as a law as a whole. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, let us consider the amendments and comments of this bill. Amendment number one. Xenia Leapina, do you insist on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Xenia Lapina, Party for Ukraine! It's actually a very complicated law and it's very controversial. You can do a lot of good, and you can do a lot of damage. Actually, it's all in nuance. So I'm just going to comment on my revisions, because I think it's very important in the nuances of this amendment. First. If we introduce into the Code of Masters, as it is now suggested, that the subject of farming can be created on the basis of a model statute approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, we are actually destroying the foundations of civil law. This is no longer a private subject created by his own will, but he is acting on the basis of a statute approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. And although there is a little bit of a compromise here, when it's accepted, it becomes an installment document. But the question is, what happens to this document if Kabmin makes a change? They automatically become effective. And thus, the subject is no longer a subject in favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u11	Natalia Yuriovno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u12	Thank you very much. In the bill, it is proposed to select the subject, either by applying a model statute or by registering its activities on the basis of its own statute, i.e. the application of a model statute is not mandatory. And for those who are not more comfortable spending time, do not spend money writing their own statutes, and they agree with an option that is model and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, they can apply this form. If they are uncomfortable, they may not use such a form. The effect of the model statute at the time of registration, if the Cabinet of Ministers then amends, only after the changes is there a new form. We are all well aware that the law of retroactive force does not exist. The model statute is not a panacea and is not mandatory, that is, an element of the facilitation of registration. A body other than the Cabinet of Ministers on the formation of a statute, you are all perfectly aware that we do not have a Constitution in the country. We can't pass the statute with you either, because it'll be casusist in the legislative field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u13	The vote is amended by 1st Kseniya Lupina. [[10:19:45]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. Amendment 2 is taken into account in an editorial way. No objections? 3rd, the same. No objections? Yes, the amendment of Yuri Voropeyeva 16. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 17th? No, it's not. Xenia Lapina, 19th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Seminoga, 21st repair? You insist. Microphone, please. No, it's not. Voropeyev, 23rd? No, it's not. Xenia Leapina, 24th. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u14	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, it's not at the same time as we just heard. The problem is that if a person chooses a model statute voluntarily, for example, it does not mean that he should not act on the basis of his own will but simply refer to a model statute. In our law, the alternative was this: you could take reference to a model statute. In this case, government law insists that the model charter lives its life. And the answer to the question is, what will be between the decision of Kabmin to change the model statute and the moment the founder understands what changes are going to happen to him, what the consequences are, and he decides to move on to his statute, which is what's going to happen in this period of time, no one can answer. That's why my 21st amendment is meant for us to lay out in the relevant code that a legal person of private law is created solely by the will of members of civil relations. And in the government bill, after all, it came out that it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u15	Natalie Juryovno, that's what we're about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u16	and 24 amendments at the same time. Therefore, with regard to the 21st amendment, it is rejected because it is not clear what “type of property” is and there is no such concept. What you are proposing will add even more to the complexity of the legislative field. With regard to the 24th amendment, the draft stated that a lawyer could be created on the basis of a model statute, and your amendment proposed an entirely different meaning that did not address the issue. Therefore, both the Committee and the other amendments were rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u17	The vote is first amended by the 21st. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:22:35]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. The 24th Amendment, Xenia Lapina, is now being voted on. [[10:22:57]] For-12. Correction not supported. Yeah, 29th. Does the Seminomist insist? 37th, Voropeyev. Oh, no? Xenia Lapina, 39th. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 41st your amendment, Xenia Mikhailna. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, Kseniya Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!" In this case, we are making further changes to the Law on Economic Associations. And actually, this is the last time I'm going to comment, and I realize that the hall just wants to accept it completely as I suggested, practically, the government doesn't want to make any changes. So I can tell you that you're making a deep mistake. Six months from now, you're going to have a bunch of complaints about things like this that I warned you were going to happen. And thank you, no subject will say if we adopt this law in this way. Because like I said, it's all in nuance. In this case, nuances are taken into account so that they're bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u19	It's the 41st Amendment of Kseniya Lapina. [[10:24:26]] For-12. No correction supported. Amendment 43, Seminoga. Don't you insist? 45th, Kseniya Mikhailna. And he doesn't insist on everyone else.? So Xenia Leapina takes her comments away from her lack of support. Ladies and gentlemen, all other amendments are included. Natalia Jurijovno, please close.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I want to agree with my colleagues. This bill is indeed serious, and it will be as useful as how it will be implemented into our legislative field. If this remains an exclusive bill, indeed, it will be of little use. Today, we provide an instrument to the Cabinet of Ministers, the executive branch, so that they can really help people and create a system of model statutes to help register businesses. If this is not done qualitatively, not effectively, it can indeed be harmful, it is like a law that can be considered on both sides. The Committee believes that the bill can be adopted on second reading, after which it can be implemented directly by regulations and by the development of the Cabinet of Ministers. When used in a qualitative way, it will benefit, in poor use, you know that harm can always be done from any of the most useful cases. Please adopt this bill on second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u21	Yuri Carmazin, what is your correction? 17. So it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u22	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I wanted to say to this bill right now that you read out a comment by the Chief Legal Authority, which says that the concept of a draft approved in the first reading has been changed, and that the general conclusion is that it needs to be reintroduced into the second reading, with the definition of Parliament's direction for further work. Because the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are not taken into account, the observations of those that Kseniya Mikhailna has just spoken are not taken into account, and the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since 30 May 2001 have not been taken into account. Because of this, I have great respect and love our head of the committee, I would ask her to answer how she can paralyze those colossal remarks that the Chief Legal Authority has given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u23	Thank you very much for your attention. On 3 March 2011, numerous conceptual comments were made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Project. In preparing for second reading, the Committee took into account in part a number of unconditional management proposals. We understand that we could not take all the proposals into account because they would in principle change the bill. A compromise was therefore found with the Cabinet of Ministers, both directly with the drafters of the bill by Goskom Entrepreneurship and with the people's deputies of all factions. Therefore, there has been no conceptual change in this option. The rules, which were exclusively declarative, had been taken into account and refined and the concept of the project had not been changed. The main task is to enable legal persons to act on the basis of a model statute. By the logic of such a statute should be a founding instrument, not a legal instrument, what was originally proposed in the first version. This concept was laid down in the bill prepared for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u24	Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to adopt the draft law as a law. The Chief Legal Authority proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return the bill to the second reading. I put to the vote the first proposal in accordance with the Rules on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the introduction of the principle of State registration of legal persons on the basis of a model statute. [[Registration number 8146]] Please vote. [[10:29:29]] For 244 The law is passed. Thank you. By factions, please: Region Party – 172, "BUT – "Fatherhood" – 2, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 1, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-factional – 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u25	We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on simplifying the process of starting a business. [[Registration number 8294]] [[second reading]] Please, Natalia Yuriovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u26	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We propose to your attention a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the facilitation of the establishment of entrepreneurship. The draft was prepared for second reading. [[No.8294]] The purpose of the bill is to simplify and optimize the procedures for the establishment of legal entities in different legal forms and to ensure the same starting conditions for all business operators. You know that in existing legislation the legal rules governing the establishment of legal persons are overburdened by conflicting requirements. In particular, various requirements for the size and composition of the statutory fund of legal persons for various forms of organization. You also know that the founders have to spend too much time and resources on the establishment of the enterprise. They flee from one office to another, moving the queues and making a mass of preliminary contributions. Agree that this situation does not contribute to the start of our own business, although we understand very well that after the adoption of the Tax Code, any simplification in the process of starting a business does not contribute to the start and launch of a business initiative. We see that in just the first three months of this year, the desire of people to start their business and to take a business initiative in our country has decreased by 40 per cent. What is specifically proposed in this bill? First. Allow the founders of legal persons to establish statutory funds in the size and compositions they need to establish their own case. Second. Reduce the costs of the founders'own funds at the time of the establishment of the legal entity. Third. Reduce the duration of State registration and the removal of the legal person from three to one day. Fourth. Simplifying the requirement for mandatory notarial processing of individual business termination documents significantly reduces the procedure. And the fifth. Delete article of the Law on the Lords. the registration that regulates the reservation of the name of the legal person. What's going on today? There is manipulation when the name is reserved and the entity does not use the name. But those who are directly synonymous with the names can't use them either. We also know that a tremendous amount of money is going to go out today to provide notaristic assurances that absolutely do not require any notarization. Therefore, this rule is similarly reduced and simplified in the bill. In the view of the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise, the adoption of the amendments to the bill is useful and timely. The second reading of the draft had received 18 amendments, 11 of which had been taken into account and 7 had been rejected. In conclusion, I would like to remind you once again that our country is now in the international ratings outlets. This adoption of the bill will result in a purely technical improvement of our external ratings by at least 30 "Duing Business" points. Today we can do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u27	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u28	We can improve our external ratings today, but we understand that we will not be able to significantly improve the business climate. Because half of the bill is cosmetic, it actually makes business easier. The Committee proposes the adoption of the bill as a whole as a law. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u29	Yes, dear colleagues, most of the amendments are included. Not mainly corrected or edited by Kseniya Ljapina. So please, Xenia, you have a microphone. You call that an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u30	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party for Ukraine! I will not insist on my amendments separately. I'll only say one thing in general, dear colleagues. That this bill is not going to make things any worse, but it certainly is not going to make things any better. If, maybe, who doesn't know, today, we'll register that an enterprise that can do business for one or two days, and you can get rid of it for months. The government bill is aimed at other technical changes in registration. In fact, they are no longer needed. The statutory capital today is minimal; it is not a stop to register enterprises. The stop is completely different. As the head of the committee has already said, this is primarily a tax system, an impossibility of having such a registered enterprise. That's why I think we're doing a lot of work to improve what's good. And unfortunately, we don't take the most difficult things, and that's, first of all, the reproach of the government, because it's supposed to be more active.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u31	Yeah, so let's do it. 1st is an editorial. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Okay. Thank you. Because you've been locked up, and I can't see, I'm sorry. Yes, then which of the authors, which amendments are not taken into account, insists? Although aside from Kseniya Mikhailnowna there, I see it's all taken into account. I'm betting on the vote for acceptance. Huh? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to simplify the process of initiating an enterprise. [[Registration number 8294]] Please vote. [[10:35:59]] For 246 Thank you. Decision taken. Yes, we would now like to consider Bill 8295, a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to simplify the procedures for the cessation of legal persons and individuals who are entrepreneurs. The profile committee, the profile committee asks, they're still working on the table, and that's why we're going to be looking at this next plenary week, next plenary week. Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. The issue is being considered – the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on "Agriculture" and "Affordable Papers and Stock Markets" on disclosure of information in the stock market. [[Registration number 7106]] [[second reading]] The head of the Committee on Finance's subcommittee, Igor Mikolayovich Prasolov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u32	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! The draft law proposes to clarify the rules on disclosure of securities issuers and to simplify the process of registering the prospectus. It should be noted separately that there is little to be done here to change the mechanism for registering the prospectuses for the issue of shares and the manner in which changes are made. Your attention is drawn to the comparative table that our Committee has worked out. During the second reading, the proposals made by the Chief Nun-Expert Authority, the Securities and Stock Market Commission and the Ukrainian Banking Union were taken into account and analysed. For example, one of the major comments of the Scientific and Expert Office was the feasibility of amending the Economic Society Act. We agreed to that argument. The title of the bill has therefore been changed. In general, I have to say that we have considered 32 amendments, 24 of them have been taken into account, 4 have been taken into account editorially and 4 have been rejected because of their lack of conformity with the norm or in one case contrary to the legislation in force. I would like to say separately that this bill is fully agreed upon and supported by the Securities and Stock Market Commission. With regard to the comment of the Legal Office, we strongly disagree with his comment, since it is this bill that requires issuers to indicate in the prospectus available information that is not directly related to the placement of securities. For this reason, a clarification was made in the definition of the “emission prospectus”. In terms of investment, such positions are simply needed in public offerings of potential investment facilities. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee, I ask you to support this bill on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u33	Thank you. Yeah, we'll go after the repairs. Let's vote on the 1st amendment to change the name of the law. Please be supportive. [[10:39:50]] For 210 Dear colleagues, be careful! The point is that in the first reading we adopted a draft Law amending the laws of Ukraine on economic societies and on securities and the stock market. Now, the profile committee is proposing to make changes to just one Act – securities and stock market. So we need to change the name, the name of the law. Who's in favour of returning to the vote for the amendment, please vote. [[10:40:38]] For 251 We're back. I'm betting on the first amendment to change the name of the law. Please be supportive. [[10:40:58]] For 256 Thank you, copy. We'll follow up on the following revisions. 8th Amendment. Carmagine, do you insist? No, it's not. The 12th is an editorial. Yes. Karmazin’s next amendment is taken into account in an editorial way. Twenty-four? Don't insist. 25th? Please, 25th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! We want the fight against corruption to go on all the time. We're resisting the raid all the time. We want to make society more open all the time. Including information about the owners of large packages. I foresee that the amendment relates to making changes to part two of article 39, which suggests that it reads: “Information about owners of significant packages”, and I write: “5 per cent and more”. Not 10 percent, as it used to be. “The State Commission shall be submitted to the Securities and Stock Market and to the issuer of securities, the person who shall account for the ownership of shares of issuers in the Ukrainian Depository System in rows, order and form established by the State Securities and Stock Market Commission. Information about owners of significant packages, 5 per cent or more, is open and published in the established Commission."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u35	I'll put 25 on the vote, please. [[10:42:53]] For the 10th. Not supported. 26th. Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u36	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, reference was made to the fact that the Shareholder Associations Act had a figure of 10. Please, I've informed you, I've told you why. So that they don't become, well, millionaires, billionaires, they're now privatizing the Kievs, they're privatizing themselves, so it's going to be, if we're going to change the law. Part of the first article, I propose that the following should be made: "Regular information on the issuer, annual and quarterly reporting on the financial and economic performance of the issuer, which is disclosed in the stock market, including through the submission to the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets, where it is published in a designated State Commission of Securities and Stock Market of Order, by placing it in a publicly available public information database of the State Commission and the Stock Market of Securities Markets." I mean, I'm talking about the regularity of information and the fact that it's all happening more openly. Please support this amendment. I don't know why she's been turned down, though the committee, but thank you for taking my many amendments into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u37	The 26th amendment is for the vote, please be determined. [[10:44:22]] For the 17th. A little bit more. And the 27th amendment. Yuri Anatolyovich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u38	I also have an amendment, Yuri Carmazin, to 27. Because 27th, this refers to part three of article 40 of paragraph eight. I suggest that we put it this way: "A list of the owners of significant packages, 5 percent and more, stocks with a given number, type, and class of their respective shares. [[or]] Reducing the threshold for information about owners of large packages, 5 percent or more, will help to ensure transparency of the financial market and reduce abuses. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want an open society, if we want an open fight against corruption, if we want to protect the rights of minority shareholders, then we have to do it and we have to do it. Of course, then make changes to the Shareholder Society Act, not to say that we have some sacred cow. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u39	27th vote. It's almost identical to the 25th. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:45:50]] For -14 All the other amendments are included. I'm voting on the second reading proposal and generally as the bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on disclosure of information in the stock market]] [[Registration number 7106]] Please vote. [[10:46:26]] For 247 The law is passed. Thank you. Now we should be looking at Bill 7399 on amending some of the laws of Ukraine, but the committee did not prepare the table, so we're moving the issue. [[on the supervision of a consolidated basis]] The issue is being addressed, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on mortgage bonds. [[Registration number 7107]] [[second reading]] Igor Mikolaiovich Prassolov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The need for a bill is due to the fact that the existing law contains only general rules on the operation of the mortgage, the work of the manager, the terms of the mortgage management contract and so forth. However, the bill proposes to address the following issues: the requirement to limit the manager's activities, the requirement to raise statutory and own capital for liquidity, which is very important, the requirements for mortgage management contracts, and a number of indicators that limit the risks of the mortgage manager's activities. Therefore, together, we believe that the bill improves the settlement of the mortgage bond market, ensures proper compliance with the obligations of mortgage bond issuers and improves the mechanisms for the performance of mortgage managers. In all, table 15 of the amendments, nine of them are fully accounted for, two are taken into account in part, two are edited, and two of us were forced to reject the committee. I would like to stress separately that this bill has been agreed with the National Bank of Ukraine, the State Securities and Stock Market Commission, and is fully supported by it. Those comments that have not been taken into account, in our view, by the General Legal Office, cannot be taken into account because of the need to fulfil the objectives set out in the Act. In addition, we agreed with some of the comments of the legal administration. The bill was considered at a meeting of the Committee on 2 March this year and recommended that it be adopted on second reading and generally as a law. Please support the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u41	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, everything is taken into account, except for the partial amendments edited by Karmazin. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? No, it doesn't. National bank, out of the question. Don't insist. Yes, Your Honor, I am then voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole as a bill of bill number 7107 amending some of the laws of Ukraine on mortgage bonds. Please vote. [[10:50:16]] For 252 Thank you. The law is passed. We should be looking at 8224, 8274 with you right now. But by now, they'll be here. Then, when the comparative tables arrive, we will consider them with you. Yuri Anatolyovich, today Pure Quarter, be kinder. We are considering question 7360: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Approval of the National Programme for the Development of the Ukrainian Mineral and Raw Base for the period up to 2010. Danielenko Vladimir Andriyovich reports from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u42	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster submits a second draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Approval of the National Programme for the Development of the Ukrainian Mineral and Raw Base for the period to 2010" from 11.11.2010, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[registration – 7360]] The project of the proposed state-of-the-state programme should result in the provision of increased needs for the national economy in mineral raw materials, the development of the national geological sector, and the comprehensive strengthening and expansion of Ukraine’s position as a mineral and raw material entity in the world market. The main scientific and expert office before this bill has made some observations and proposals, including the bill should be called "the Ukrainian Law on the Approval of Ukraine's General Programme for the Development of the Ukrainian Mineral and Raw Materials for the period to 2030". The overall part of the project contains various economic indicators that are not relevant. In the drafting process, these comments were taken into account. All proposals for the Public Program project are taken into account and agreed with its developers. The amended bill is being drafted by the General Legal Authority without notice. All positions, except for one, are accounted for. A rejected proposal regarding the introduction of legislation on the provision of reports to the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the previous programme, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is preparing such a report on the matter for the decision of the Cabinet Committee. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Law on Change. on the approval of the State Program, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, to be adopted in second reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u43	Thank you. Yes, Yuri Carmazin's 2nd amendment is out of the question. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin. The 2nd amendment is serious here, so I have to sound it. I propose that the second paragraph be made out in the following wording: "The Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine submit to the Supreme Council a monthly report on the implementation of the National Programme for the Development of the Ukrainian Mine and Raw Materials for the period up to 2010.".. Because that's what we're taking by 2030, and by 2010, we have to report it. "that analysis of the factors contributing to or hindering the development of Ukraine's mineral and raw material base will ensure the implementation of Ukraine's General Programme for the Development of a Mineral and Raw Base for the period to 2030 and the coming into the State Budget of Income from Mining and Complementary Components. During the preparation of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for the year in question, provide for the allocation of funds for the implementation of the measures determined by the General Government Programme for the Development of Ukraine's Mineral and Raw Materials for the period to 2030, deriving from the revenue of the State Budget from the acquisition and use of resources for mining and related components." I'm paying attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u45	Yes, Karmazin's 2nd amendment is voting, please determine. [[10:54:59]] For the 18th. So, your honors, everything else is taken into account. I am voting on the proposal of a professional committee, the Chief Legal Authority has passed a bill on the adoption of a second reading and, in general, as a law, a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the approval of a state-wide programme for the development of the Ukrainian mineral and raw materials base by 2010. Registration number 7360. Please vote. [["10:55:47]] For 247 In doing so, I pay attention to the honourable colleagues who have changed the name of the law. "To approve a state-wide programme for the development of Ukraine's mineral raw materials base by 2030." We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on leases. Second reading, Head of Economic Policy Committee Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich, please. [[Registration number 7098]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[for Rent Relations]] Registration number 7098 was accepted at the first reading on October 19, 2010. The project proposes to amend the master code of Ukraine, the law of Ukraine on renting state and municipal property. These changes are aimed at harmonising the standards of the legislative acts and further improving the legal regulation of leases, such as the introduction of competitive principles for the transfer of state and municipal property to lease, and clarifying the order of valuation of the property. The committee’s second reading included 67 suggestions from national deputies. Of these, 27 are rejected, and another 40 are counted in whole or in part. The main mass of the rejected suggestions is to reject the first reading. Other proposals complicate the application of the Law on State Property Rental and significantly undermine its quality. Absolutely all the proposals have been carefully worked out, agreed with the National Property Fund of Ukraine, and each of them has an appropriate basis. With regard to the comments made by the legal authorities for the second reading of the draft law, the committee, along with the experts of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, processed them and could not agree with them in any way. If necessary, I have an argument on the committee against any proposal made by the board. Furthermore, part of the proposals conflict with article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules. So the committee proposes to consider this project in a second reading and to accept it as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who insists on reform? Nine, Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we've worked very well on this law, and I'd like to ask you to consider Amendment 9, which concerns paragraph three. "State utilities, institutions and organizations for immovable property," I ask you to write in such an editorial form, "the total area of which is not more than 150 meters, not as it was 200 meters per enterprise, institution, organization and other individually defined property." I believe that all other property should be leased exclusively on competitive grounds by the State Property Fund. And in the event that the renter doesn't need this property, it needs to be removed from these property complexes and contributed to the creation of new productions. And I'll point out that we already have this kind of problem with the State Property Fund because of the lack of transparency of the state property fund, when today citizens are getting payments for the fact that they're already 30 percent after the sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u49	The 9th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:59:51]] For-9 Carmazine's 18th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin. This amendment applies in particular to the amendment. I propose to article 4 of Part One that I propose a different edition to give her and write down this: "The lease initiative may come from natural and legal persons who may be renters in accordance with Article 6 of this Law. The offer may come from the tenants mentioned in article 5 of this Law. The landlord is obliged to publish on the official website of the Ukrainian State Property Fund and its official website or official website an announcement on the transfer of property to a lease on competitive grounds." Please support this. Because it's not written here why it's rejected, there's no motive. That's why I'm asking you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u51	Yes, please, Alexander Mikolayovich, what's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u52	The point is, both in the actual and proposed laws are about the possibility and not the obligation to hold a competition. So we rejected the amendment because it essentially doesn't change anything in the actual law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u53	The 18th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:01:23]] For-9 Not supported. Yes, what other amendments, Yuri Anatoliovich, are yours unaccounted for? 30th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u54	Amendment 30 refers to article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental. I propose that paragraph 2 of Part Five of Article 1 of the Law on State and Municipal Property read: "The lease of property of other forms of property is governed by the provisions of this law, if the tenants are state-owned enterprises, including the Ukrainian state-owned postal company Krašta. I'm stressing that only now are these metamorphosises in government. And it's very important for them to record in this company, because I predict that it's going to be just a broken-down, scattered enterprise, like the whole link sector where the restructuring is going on right now, and the consequences can be as devastating as after the sale of Shrimp, where it's already going up as much, 30 percent of the tariff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u55	Dear Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u56	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u57	The fact is that the Rent and Households Act applies to all state and municipal enterprises and mentioning a particular enterprise is contrary to standard-setting technology. We can't mention the Crucifixion itself, if this law applies to everyone without it. Well, norm-making techniques don't allow it, we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u58	30 votes, please be determined. [[11:03:28]] For the 10th. Not supported. So, Carmazin, 37th is essentially accounted for. Don't you insist? Same thing, 39th is essentially counted. 46th is essentially Carmazin. 50th and other editions accounted for by Karmazin. 55th is essentially counted. 53rd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u59	53rd Amendment, I thank the committee where they counted, and I want Alexander Mikolayovich to understand me correctly. It's true that everything was said about what we're adopting for all businesses, but in this case, what's going on with Crucifixion, what's going on with Crucifixion, what's going on with the whole country. And I want to emphasize this, maybe the Prime Minister will hear me. He can't hear it. He's got plugs in his ears. And maybe the President will hear if anyone in his administration hears about it. In part 7 of article 9, I propose that the following wording read: "The procedure for the conduct of the competition and the draft contract with the winners of the competition shall be determined by the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine for subjects in state ownership, bodies designated by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, for objects belonging to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self-government bodies for objects in communal property," by deleting the second sentence of this part of the content: ". If a tenant is identified on competitive grounds, the tenant sends copies."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u60	Yes, please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u61	We believe that the first reading of the law is better than the one proposed by the National MP. So the committee rejected her.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u62	53rd vote, please. Don't insist. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich, you still have the 61st amendment, partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u63	Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u64	Yes, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u65	Adam Ivanovich, I don't insist on any more amendments. I believe that the bill as a whole is well prepared, and it may be, to serve the Ukrainian people. The only thing I wanted to bring to the attention of the Special Committee on Privatization is that we should go back to the questions about "The Shrine." Including, I'm pointing out to the Attorney General that the conditions under which the Shuttleman is no longer being sold, the pay is already rising, the issue of cutting off the village from the service is already being raised. Because of this, another way for the legislator to hear us talk about amendments is that we don't have any. Because we're excluded from government channels, we're disconnected from communication with prime ministers, the first, the second, and just vice-premiers. That's why I address people in this way. And the law can be passed, my amendments are still, I ask you to consider them as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u66	Yeah, none of the authors insist on it anymore?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u67	May I, Adam Ivanovich? I'd like to say that I fully support the opinion of Deputy Carmazin regarding "The Shrimp," but it's not about the law. By "Silver" everything that's been going on right now, I've been talking about it from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u68	Yes, please, this does not apply to this law. Turn off the microphone. You said yourself that this is not the law and you start to discuss it. I am voting on the proposal of the second-reading committee and the whole Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on rent relations. [[Registration number 7098]] [[11:07:38]] For 229 The law is passed. We are discussing the draft Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Professional Creative Workers and Creative Associations on the Predominant Right of Creative Associations to Contract Rentals of State or Municipal Property. [[Registration number 7171]] Reports from Kosovo Committee Mikhail Vasilovich. There's no Kosovo? Oh, please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, it means whether or not the changes to article 9 of the Ukrainian Act "On Professional Creative Workers and Associations" have been made by today's Cabinet of Ministers, today's government. It refers to the 9th article that discusses rentals for creative associations and creative workers. This bill, which we adopted in the first reading, was followed up by comments from our General Legal Office, which we have taken fully into account before the second reading. In addition, comments were made by national deputies, who, well, were not all able to count. In particular, I'd like to group these notes in such a way that they relate to the creative spaces, and the authors of these comments have asked for a list of all of these needs, for which creative communities use these spaces, for example, creative workshops, studios, laboratories. But even the authors of such proposals use such a term as "other needs" or "other institutions." If we, colleagues, cannot fully determine the functional purpose of the creative community, but we say "others," why should we even introduce such clarifications? The other one. It is very dangerous, and Yuri Karmazin refers to others. If the owner of the premises needs the space for his other needs, the creative community thus does not have the predominant right to continue the lease. This is simply dangerous, for if we put it in, there is no doubt that both the Kiev City Council and others will be able to use these facilities. And the third. The room is for suborndance. But here I'm going to send him to the General Legal Office, and we've done what he says. So I'm willing to respond to those suggestions or comments, or the authors' statements of the unaccounted for proposals. And the committee's decision: this request will be accepted as a whole in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u70	Yes, dear fellows, let's go to the repairs. 1st Amendment. Voropeyev, do you insist? No, it's not. Carmazine, 3rd. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u71	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mikhail Vasilovich, I appeal to you so that there will be no denial of my amendment, because. You didn't understand her, so you should have come to me and told me not to say that Karmazin's position was the other way around. Now you'll understand why I'm saying this. The proposal was in the first reading of the law, I agree with the second, the editorial. The 2nd amendment, which is taken into account by Yavorowski, is done correctly. But it has been written: creative associations, when they are done, have the predominant physical, legal right in the event that they are properly executed – and so on. Without the right to transfer this property to a subsidiary or a joint venture agreement. And to that word, that is, it's passed on to the suborendum, and by the joint activity agreement, I wrote it down here so that it wouldn't be an abuse. That it's supposed to be creative associations, and actually it's an elementary speculation of that. In addition to these words, Karmazin wrote: “Unless there is a case, when.”
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u72	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u73	Don't let me take the line. Thank you. This is what I wrote: “When suitable premises are needed for the needs of its owner, he warns the tenant in the order of the Law on State and Municipal Property. ” I mean, just before being in a subordinary or in a joint activity, Mr. Michael, of course, right? It's a legal technique. I got out of this, not at all, to hurt. On the contrary, there should be no abuse of that right. But I agree with that paper, please don't put it to the vote Yavorowski gave. And please, well, you don't have to take a hike like that and insult it. An artist can be offended by anyone, including a rightful artist, Mr. Michael. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u74	Thank you. Thank you. Conflict is over. Who else insists on repairs? None. So, please, I would like to vote on the proposal for a professional committee to adopt, in a second reading and in general, the Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Professional Creative Workers and Creative Associations, on the predominant right of creative associations to make a contract for renting public or communal property. Please vote. [[11:14:20]] For 279 The law is passed. We're considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Notaryate Act, reports Miroshnichenko from the Committee. [[on requirements for notary activity]] [[Registration number 7304]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u75	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. The Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting considered a comparative table up to the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Act on Notariat, adopted on 23 December 2010, on the basis of the first reading. [[Registration number 7304]] The changes proposed by Bill 7304 relate to improving the selection of people who want to engage in notarial activities. The bill raises the highest level of control over notarial activity and the cancellation of the relevant testimony. To this end, the bill proposes to clearly establish the status and mandate of the Higher Qualifications Commission of the Notaryate. First of all, it is suggested that the commission be empowered to establish: a qualification test for the right to take up notary activities; a review of the issue and decision on the annulment of the certificate of participation in notary activities; and a decision on the issue of a certificate issued by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for the right to take up notary activities. A committee of professionals was thoroughly involved in reviewing the bill. During the drafting of the bill for second reading to the committee, 21 proposals and amendments were made to the committee, most of which are taken into account in whole or in part. The Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending Ukraine's Act on Notariat to be adopted in second reading and in general as a law. [[Registration number 7304]] Thank you for your attention. Gentlemen, I'm ready to answer any questions you may have.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u76	There are no questions asked on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u77	Well, if there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u78	And if there is, there are none.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u79	But I'm ready, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u80	Yes, the 4th Amendment of Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I have a question. And there's a question and an observation at the General Legal Office that suggests that this law be sent back for second reading. I'm going to tell you honestly that this is a completely lobbyist bill to the Ministry of Justice, and I'm going to make that clear right now. I suggest in the first part of article 10: "To determine the level of professional training of persons who intend to engage in notarial activities, to consider the cancellation of the certificate of the right to take part in notarial activities, the Higher Qualifications Committee of the Notariat consists of 15 persons," removing the words "with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine" and adding the words "with 15 persons." We postponed the Notaryate Act, and it would be better for us to adopt the law and then write it down here, but around here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u82	Allow me, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u83	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u84	I'm one minute, literally. Yuri Anatolyovich, I thank you for paying our attention to the observation of the General Legal Department, and I agree with them absolutely. But within the framework of the operating system, it is impossible to implement fully the elements of the so-called Latin Notary with complete self-governance, and this requires the adoption of a new law, as you said, which will not only introduce a system of access to the profession, but also fully implements self-governance, procedures, quotas, payment of notary services, and so on. That's why this bill modernizes the existing system, but, as you said correctly, we will be within the new Notary Act to resolve issues that unfortunately cannot be resolved within the framework of this law. Thank you for your attention and activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u85	Why adopt a law to decide in another law?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u86	Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u87	Right. The 4th amendment shall be put to the vote. [[11:19:16]] For-33 Not supported. 5th Amendment. Carmagine, do you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u88	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time our President is proposing which Ukraine is good, telling other countries. So I want you to know that the Statute of the International Union of Latin Notaryates provides that access to the profession of notaryus is provided only after the successful completion of the training by candidates, and the examination of the activities of notaryuses is carried out by an organ that consists solely of notaries. And in the whole world, there's no way the Justice Department can do that. As a result, I propose that, on the basis of international standards, part four and fifth of article 10 read: "The procedure for admitting qualifications. The exams and their conduct are established by the Ministry of Justice on the basis of," excuse me, "has been established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not by the Ministry of Justice," as it is now written, because this is a sub-legislative act of the fourth level. What are we doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u89	The 5th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:20:49]] For-24 8th Amendment. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u90	Yuri Carmazin. I'm told who will be lobbying the Justice Department. But anyway, well, you don't have to do that. 8th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u91	Do not conceal confidential information.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u92	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'm talking about compliance, well, international standards. If we're going to Europe, if we're going to Europe, if we're going to Europe, we're going to Europe. Well, I know the policy is we're in Asia, but please. The 8th amendment applied to the fact that a qualified commission was to be admitted to the exam and to the Higher Qualifying Commission exam, was to be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Although all of this must be regulated by law, I am on to the point that we have lawlessness. You called it off, you canceled all the projects, most of them. You're doing this so there won't be any lawlessness? And I'm saying, at least the Cabinet of Ministers will do it, because Minjust will.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u93	We didn't call back -- we had a harmonized bill submitted. 8th vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:22:24]] For-26 Yuri Anatolyevich, 11th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin. There are circumstances when people have not passed the tests. I propose article 10, article 6 to be edited as follows: "Those who have not passed a qualification examination shall be allowed to reassemble it not later than one year after the submission of the Chief Justice Department of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the principal administrations of justice in the areas, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol. A person who has not been requalified may be admitted only three years later and after being interned for 1 year in a state notary office or in a private notary under the conditions provided for by this law." The point is that I'm writing down these requirements because the specialists who are currently being released by law schools are extremely low-skilled. They're printed by just thousands, and they don't even match the level of the gym. It's a disgraceful phenomenon, but it is today, I make it clear and I want to put obstacles to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u95	The 11th amendment shall be voted on. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:23:53]] For-22. Mikhail Kosov supported you as the rehabilitation moment stretched out his hand. Please, 12th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies, I turn to those who do not lobby only for Minust’s activities. The amendment to Article 10, is proposed in the following wording: "A person whose private notarial activity has not been registered for three years after receiving a certificate of employment, except in the case of a person who was on leave for three years to attend to the age of three, a consultant to a public notarial office or an assistant to a private notarius, was not the official person in charge and control of the activity of the notariat, until the application for registration of a notarial activity must be confirmed by the creation of an additional qualification in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." I think this regulation in the law, if we're already in the law, is extremely necessary, and that's exactly what I'm insisting on, and I'm asking the opposition to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u97	The 12th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:25:28]] For the 17th. Not supported. And Karmazin's 16th amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin. Honourable National MPs, Amendment 16a refers to part 10 of article 10, which I propose to introduce and to present in this paper: "Implementation by the Chief Justice of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by the Chief Administrations of Justice in the areas, cities of Kiev and Sevastopol of the application of the waiver of the right to take up notarial activity and their examination by the Higher Qualification of the Notariat is carried out in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." I repeat that there is no such standard-setting body as the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. And this, if we were to take you more seriously, it would be obvious to us, because it's obvious to me that the Minist is now destroying all the laws that it is a hindrance to the life of the state, that it has lost its administrative reform, made it a humane Chernobyl. That's why I don't want to go any further.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u99	The 16th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:26:58]] For 20 All the amendments we've made, I'm putting to the vote the proposal for a profile committee to adopt in a second reading and the whole Act amending the Ukraine Act on Notariat, [[on requirements for notary activity]] [[Registration number 7304]] [[11:27:37]] For 216 The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 170, "BUT – Fatherland", did not vote, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 6, the Communists did not vote, "Reforms" – 18, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 2. Who's in favour of coming back, please vote. [[11:28:19]] For 226 We're back. I'm betting on a motion for the adoption of the Act amending the Ukraine Act on Notariat, [[Registration number 7304]] [[11:28:45]] For 224 We are considering a draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Pay for Work Act. [[on the regulation of the pay fund of workers of monopolistic enterprises]] Registration number 6406, head of the Maruschenko Committee, please. [[second reading]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! On March 1, this year, we voted on the bill in the first reading. The Supreme Council of Ukraine ordered the Committee of Social Policy and Work to consider amendments and proposals to the bill, to prepare for the second reading. Let me remind you of the point. The bill is intended to eliminate the state regulation of the pay-for-work funds of monopolistic enterprises by excluding the relevant rule of part one of article 8 of the Ukrainian Pay-for-Work Act. Further regulating the activities of monopolists by setting them a calculated value of the pay and financial sanctions fund for exceeding it has become economically unwarranted and is a double regulation of their activities. Since valid legislation defines the importance of the State’s influence on the pricing of these enterprises, today the State has the power to influence the economic activity of monopolistic operators through tariff policies. In addition, this double regulation inhibits the development of monopolistic enterprises, limits the wages of their employees, creates the risks of tax evasion. So canceling the relevant rule in Ukraine's Pay for Work Act will remove an unnecessary regulatory instrument for state economic governance and meet the current conditions for its development. Considering that no proposals and amendments to the draft were made by the committee in accordance with part five of article 118 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine on 16 March of this year, the Committee, in accordance with article 118 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure, considered at its meeting and introduced the draft Act amending article 8 of the "On Pay for Work" and recommended that it be adopted in the second reading and in general as a law. [[Registration number 7446]] The chief judicial office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called on him without notice and noted that the bill could be adopted in a second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, you understand the bill has not been proposed, so we are voting on it. You can show me, but I'm not a secretary, you can explain to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u102	Let me hear it then.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u103	Yuri Anatolyovich, I'm voting for adoption in second reading and in whole law under number 7446. Please vote. [[11:32:22]] For 257 Copy that. Yuri Anatolyevich insists that he made an amendment. If so, I ask you to officially contact the Regulatory Committee for an amendment and a profile committee. I don't want to sound. I repeat what you have to do. Ask the regulatory committee that the committee to which you submitted the amendment did not take it into account. Let the Regulatory Committee handle it. I can't say right or wrong right now. And then we'll make a decision about why the committee didn't count. I'm looking at the bill. I'm following the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u104	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u105	On what basis?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u106	On the basis that I made a correction on March 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u107	Whom should the chairman listen to the committee or the deputy? Please, Carmazin, microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich! If you gave me an amendment before I read it, I don't think she'd make any remarks. I made an amendment on March 1, 2011. It is registered in accordance with the law. I've never lied before, Adam Ivanovich. Part one, I suggested, article 8 put it this way: The State regulates the remuneration of employees of all forms of property by setting the minimum wage of other State rules and guarantees, by setting the conditions for the remuneration of directors of enterprises based on state and municipal property, employees of enterprises and organizations financed or subsidized by the budget, by regulating the remuneration funds of employees of monopolists according to the list established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and by taxing the income of employees." After restoring the words, "The regulation of the funds for the salaries of the employees of monopolistic enterprises according to the list determined by the Cabinet of Ministers." Because it is not possible to reduce control during the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u109	Yeah, I said how to solve a conflict, I can't tell who's right, who's wrong, because it's a conflict. It's a conflict. If you have applied for an amendment, you need to find out why it is not counted. We are considering the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine. [[on party reporting for political and pre-election programmes]] Registration number 1467. Upstairs Sergei Petrovich from the committee. None. Yes, please take the chart. There are 5 amendments, 4 of them included, 5th Pisarenko rejected. Pisarenko doesn't insist on correction? No, it's not. Then I put to the vote the proposal of a professional committee, the Chief Legal Authority called out without notice, on the adoption of the second reading and the whole Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine. [[on party reporting for political and pre-election programmes]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:35:49]] For-30 There's nothing to reroute, I'm sorry. Either we vote or we don't vote. I repeat, there's nothing to go on again! Let's not waste time and material resources. No one made any suggestions, no profile committee made any suggestions, no written proposals. I don't have that kind of writing proposal. We are considering 7344, the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations. [[concerning the powers of local public administrations]] Second reading. From the committee first deputy head Bodnar Olga Borisovna. None. Let's take the table. We have eight amendments here. The 2nd Amendment is a no-brainer. Don't insist. Yeah, and the 8th Amendment was rejected. Don't insist. Carmine's accounted for in part six. Don't insist. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in the whole Act amending article 234 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations. [[concerning the powers of local public administrations]] [[Registration number 7344]] Please vote. [[11:37:51]] For the 250. Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditive Activities. [[on the improvement of individual positions]] [[Registration number 3662]] [[second reading]] Reported the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Belarus, Irina Anatoliyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy prepared for second reading a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities. What is the point of this law? It is very simple to correct the technical error that has emerged in this existing law. There are two different procedures in place in the securities market. The first is the issue of securities and derivatives, and the second is the licensing of professional participants in the Fund market. The fact is that both licensing and issuance of securities are required to address financial risks in the Audit Fund Market. We therefore need to correct this technical error and bring the Act on Auditing into line with the laws on the State regulation of the securities market and on securities and the stock market. The second reading received four comments from members of the people, two of whom were taken into account by the Committee, and two were rejected. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council has made a provision for the law without any comment. The Committee proposes the adoption of the draft law on second reading and in general. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u111	Thank you. Yes, Yuri Carmazin, 3rd Amendment. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u112	Yuri Carmazin. I propose that amendments be made to paragraph 1 of the article, part of the first article 8, to read in this edition, "The conduct of an audit is mandatory in the case of confirmation of the reliability and completeness of the annual financial reporting and the consolidated financial reporting of open stock companies, bond issuers, professional market participants in securities, financial institutions and other management entities, whose electronic reporting is subject to official and free publication on the official website of the State Securities and Stock Markets Commission or the State Financial Services Market Regulation of Ukraine in accordance with the established obligation to provide such a report." This saves money and paper, since the need to publish information on newspaper sheets is excluded in fine print, which no one can read at all. In addition, it is possible for interested persons to quickly search for this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u113	There's a third amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:41:24]] For the 15th. Not counted. And Karmazin's 4th amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin. The 4th amendment relates to what I ask you to leave a valid version of paragraph 3 of the first part of Article 8, which reads as follows: " securities issuers get a license to carry out professional activities in the securities market." It is not appropriate to introduce an additional audit of the issuers of securities, since Article 8, paragraph 1, already refers to a mandatory audit to confirm the reliability of the full annual financial reporting of the issuers of bonds opened by shareholders that are issuers of shares. Moreover, it is not appropriate to impose mandatory audit of issuers of derivatives, since there is currently no legislation regulating the order in which derivatives are issued. In general, it seems that at a time when it is necessary to reduce the financial burden on business subjects, certain structures are interested in increasing audit incomes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u115	The 4th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:42:56]] For -8 Not supported. I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and in general the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditive Activities. [[on the improvement of individual positions]] [[Registration number 3662]] Please vote. [[11:43:25]] For 245 The law is passed. We are considering the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of Small State Enterprises. [[on the prohibition of the privatization of premises where libraries, bookstores and state publications are located]] [[resecond reading]] [[Registration number 5449]] The committee is Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! On 13 January 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine sent a second reading of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises (as regards the prohibition of privatization of premises where libraries, bookstores and state publications are located). The project envisaged that they could not be objects of small privatization of buildings, buildings, buildings, or parts of libraries, bookstores, and government publications. The second point was to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with a bill on the introduction of amendments to the Ukrainian Laws on Libraries and Libraries, on the publication of the case, on the prohibition of privatization of premises where libraries, bookstores and state publications are located. The committee sent the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a draft prepared for the second reading requesting a position on further work on the project. In his conclusion of January 26, 2011, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supported the proposed drafting by the Committee. But he proposes to complement his position that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine also has the task of amending the Ukrainian Culture Act. A comparison table has been introduced and is considered by the committee. The project included six proposals by Ukrainian national deputies. All offers are included in whole or in part. The committee unanimously decided to adopt the bill in a second reading and in general. I would like to stress once again that compared to the previous second reading in the transitional situation, the standard proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been introduced. That the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within three months of the date of entry into force of this law, is preparing bills to amend the Ukrainian Laws on Libraries and Libraries, on Publications, and on the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, on Culture. So we've taken into account the position of the Cabinet of Ministers, and we're asking you to support this bill as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention. He needs an immediate solution. Because you know how many scandals have to do with bookstores and libraries and publications. In the center of Kiev, Krestatik is the best illustration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u117	Thank you. Yes, all the amendments are included, including many amendments made by Carmazin’s colleague. I would like to vote on the proposal of a professional committee to adopt in a second reading and in general the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of Small State Enterprises (to prohibit privatization of premises where libraries, bookstores, and state publications are located, please vote. [[11:47:00]] For 333 We haven't reached 400, Yuri Anatolyovich, but 333 have. The law is passed. Yeah, that's a record. We're considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Regional Development Promotion. [[on the expansion of groups of territories that are considered to be depressed and given such status]] [[Registration number 6519]] Report to the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexy Vitaliyovich Plonikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u118	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy at its meeting on 15 March 2011 considered, in a second reading, the Act of Ukraine amending the Act on Promoting Regional Development. [[on the expansion of groups of territories that are considered to be depressed and given such status]] The bill is written by the national deputy of Ephraim. The main acquisitions of this bill include what is proposed to be added to part two of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Promotion of Regional Development on the Treatment of Depressive Areas of a Human Settlement, in which coal and coal-processing enterprises have been eliminated since 1996. So you have to have both criteria at the same time. But they haven't been fully implemented to address socio-economic and environmental issues. The second reading committee received 13 amendments from the Cabinet of Ministers and National Deputies. Of these, 13 are included in whole or in part. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council has sent out their comments, which are, well, more likely to be of such an editorial nature, that it does not conflict with the need to adopt the bill. Therefore, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill, taking into account the relevant amendments to the second reading. Thank you and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u119	Thank you. Nobody insists? Yuri Anatoliyovich, please Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u120	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I will support this bill. Thank you to the committee for preparing, but the changes that need to be made now are not entirely in the interests of the Ukrainian people, particularly the entire Ukrainian people, because the addition of article 1 of the seventh paragraph needs to be made in such a way as to read: "Ocremally populated areas in which closed urban enterprises are located." And delete the words: "since 1996" and "concrete" and "carbon processing." So I'm saying that only since 1996 is it wrong to do a countdown, we've had a lot of population, we've had urban enterprises that are closed down, and we also have to support this law. Please support me and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u121	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u122	This amendment was not taken into account because it actually distorts the essence of the law itself, and the law was passed precisely in the coal fields and from what was not done in 1996. If you delete this, it's going to be a completely different law, it's going to be a completely universal nature of action, it's going to be anything, except what the author meant.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u123	Amendment 6 shall be put to the vote. [[11:51:23]] For-27 Yuri Anatolyovich, do you no longer insist? 10th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are making changes to article 9 of the Economic and Social Act and other indicators of the development of the territory by which it can be regarded as depressing. And this is about what we need to think about, because all of Ukraine is already getting depressed, and the government is reporting that it's cool. Part four of article 9 suggests that the following wording reads: "Depressives are recognised as separate population areas in which there are closed urban enterprises whose closures have not been completed in full, measures to address socio-economic and environmental issues envisaged by appropriate eradication projects." And that's the whole area that we have. So once we make changes, I propose this proposal to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u125	10th vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:52:51]] For-19 We've all considered it. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee in the second reading and in the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Promotion of Regional Development. [[on the expansion of groups of territories that are considered to be depressed and given such status]] [[Registration number 6519]] Please vote. [[11:53:33]] For 281 The law is passed. Thank you. We're talking about -- the draft law amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the violation of the order of pets, this is re-reading. [[Dogs]] [[5126]] The committee reports to Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u126	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Legislative Security of Law, prepared for review in a second reading, a bill submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Heratchenko Irina and Gerasimük Olgoy, entitled "To amend the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine on the responsibility for violating the rules of keeping dogs, cats or other animals". [[by number 5126]] The reason for the return of the bill to second reading was the comments of the Chief Legal Authority, which was that there was a need to strengthen administrative responsibility for violating the rules of keeping dogs and other animals, i.e. to amend article 154 of the Code on Administrative Offences. Actually, it was done. Thus, the bill provides for reinforcements and administrative responsibility for violating the rules of keeping dogs, cats, other domestic animals, well, as well as currently present bears, judging by recent events, as well as criminal responsibility for the care of such animals, if this has caused the injured body injury to the average or serious bodily harm or caused the victim's death. And specifically on the amendments. In the process of preparing the bill for second reading, it received 24 proposals from legal entities, 19 of which are considered by the committee to be complete, partial or editorial. 5 of them are rejected. Thus, the committee proposes to take a decision on the adoption of the bill in second reading and in general as a law of Ukraine. The principal legal administration maintained that view and called for a bill without notice. Please support the committee's decision and the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u127	Thank you, Yuri Vladimirovich. We're going after the repairs. Heroette, 3rd. Don't insist. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich, your 11th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that we are making changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Code. They're supposed to be extremely neat because it's the 10th anniversary of the amendment to the Criminal Code. a new adoption of the Criminal Code, which remained undetected by the country, but we applied many so - called dead articles. And now we're doing something unprofessional. I propose the title of the article as follows: "The violation of the rules on the keeping and leaching of domestic or wild animals." Because a dog is also a domestic animal, and damage to human life or health can also be caused by a violation of other rules of restraint — not to close the cage, not to close the door, and so on. I mean, it's not just a fluke, it's a wrong name. Consider the correct name. Don't do what you're doing now. I'm going to the committee, to the committee, and I'm going to the Supreme Council right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u129	That's the 11th amendment to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u130	No, it's not. It's getting tired out there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u131	Yes, take down the vote. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u132	Yuri Anatoliyovich, the point is that the list of all of these things that you're talking about, he's obviously going to have to be regulated by the direct orders of those organizations that are responsible. You know, we do. And that's why when we put it in a criminal procedure, or in a criminal code, the entire list that we have to have, we're just going to make it a reference. That's why. That's exactly what's happening. That's why. Please put the matter to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u133	You spell "Criminal Code," he's been creating for how many years.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u134	Ask me a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u135	Yes, the 11th is voting because the two Yuris are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u136	In principle, we can be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u137	I'd like to make a statement. Yes, there are two lawyers. [[11:58:16]] For 237 Supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u138	See, it's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u139	Yuri Anatolyovich, given the support we have, can we vote on the law now?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u140	Nope.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u141	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u142	I thank both Mikhail Chechtov and other deputies who listened to a man who had worked on the Criminal Code for three years. I urge you to support the 22nd and 23rd amendments. Why? The point is, what I propose is the first paragraph of article 264. Put it this way. This provides for only the actions provided for in part one of this article if they have caused the death of several people. What if they're done again? So I'm asking you to put who and write "or are done again." This will mean that in repetitive as a whole of the Criminal Code, there is also a qualified responsibility. I don't know why, I couldn't be on the committee, why didn't they take it? But throughout the Criminal Code, we have this approach, so let's not delete it and support it. Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u143	There's logic and I'm asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u144	Please identify with the 22nd amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u145	It's okay, we can support it. [[11:59:47]] For 248
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! It's all right, we vote. Dogs are good animals. But we do not politely give dogs as much as 10 years of imprisonment, and when we take a person’s life, they are still thinking of giving him ten years or not giving him ten years and so on. So let's still look at life with our eyes open, not to be that the dog is a friend of man, but that his life is not more precious than human life. We have a measure and an understanding. 23rd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin. I thank you very much for not the political approach, but the professional approach of the people’s deputies is 243 who have supported it. This is about supporting, about protecting a person, because what difference does it make? Whether she died as a result of a drunken accident, whether she died as a result of a criminal's knife or a criminal's bullet, which is currently indisposed, so I propose a second paragraph, part three, article 264-1 to put forth in the editorial "punished by being deprived of liberty for a term of 8 to 10 years," by raising the bottom table, where it is written from five to eight. Because of this, I think it's going to be a preventive role, the tigers aren't going to let go, or keep separate cages, there's not going to be a feature or any other animal that's actually happening right now, they're going to bite people to death, and the dogs are going to bite, and the kids are going to bite. So please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u148	The 23rd vote is on the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u149	Let me just say that, according to the authors, from 5 to 9. Not from five to eight. But I want to remind everyone that there is such an unforgettable work as "The Horses aren't to blame." Similarly, dogs are not to blame. It's those who keep them, those who train them to be human. Because a dog, especially a fighting breed, is a weapon. In fact, the amendment has the right to life, although the sanctions are quite serious: up to nine years old.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u150	The 23rd vote is on the vote. [[12:02:21]] Z-11. Not supported. I would like to vote on the proposal for a profile committee to adopt in a second reading and in general the Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine (referring to a violation of the order of pets (persons) (registration number 5126). Please vote. [[12:02:56]] For-74. Yes, the amendments were a fine vote. The law is rejected. Dear colleagues, before the break. And it was the second time again, and it was the second time again, unfortunately. Dear colleagues, I propose a day-to-day draft of the Order marking the 75th anniversary of the Institute of History of Ukraine of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. [[Bill 8412 registration number]] The drafters are the Presidency of the Supreme Council, the Governing Council. Please be supportive. Historians: Litwin, Martinyuk, and Tomenko [[12:03:59]] For 285 Thank you. It's on. I ask the committee to consider this bill after 16 hours. An interval of up to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes, at the request of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. We're continuing the morning session. Now, according to established tradition, we are considering the election and release of judges. I invite you to the rostrum of the Head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Samsin Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u152	Good afternoon! Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! First of all, allow me to welcome you with the coming festivals, to wish you health, happiness, and goodness to all. According to part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of the Act. She also discussed the appeal of citizens, public organizations, businesses, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities, and local self - government authorities to the activities of candidates for the position of judges who had reached the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine on a temporary basis during the Commission’s consideration of the issue of recommending them to serve as judges. According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, the submission of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis. Your attention is given to the following draft decrees: draft Decree on the Election of Judges No. 8419. Please select judges who have been elected on an open-ended basis to serve as judges: the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk district of Canurna Olga Demyanovna, Tkakov Svetlana Stefanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Zitomir district of Talco Oksana Borisovna; the Court of Appeal of Onufriyev Viktor Mikolayovich, Kyrovograd district; The Court of Appeal of the Mikolai District of Colomiet Violet Volodymyrna; the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Vituk Vladimir Janović; the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region of Bibu Yuri Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of Kiev, Vasiliev Margarita Anatoliyevna; Kharkiv Administrative Court of Appeal Zigilia Pavlovich, Ralchenka Igor Mikolaiovich; Donetsk’s Appeal Chamber of Commerce, Donz Alexander Evgenovich, Malashkewicz Sergey Anatoliyovich; Lviv’s Court of Appeal of Greece’s Vera Mikolayevna, Habib Maria Ivanovna; Odessa’s Court of Appeal, Taran Svetlana Valeriyovna; Vassišin Andrija Romanović, Regional Court of Appeal; the Economic Court of the Winnick district of Kožuhar Maria Sergiyevna; The economic court of the Gitomir district of Lachevic Alla Arkadyevna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u153	Yeah, I don't see any comments on the candidates. Then I put to the vote Supreme Council Order 8419 on the election of judges on an indefinite basis. Please vote. [[12:39:05]] For 275 Thank you. It's been decided. Please proceed with your ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u154	Draft Decree on the Election of Judges No. 8419-1. Choose judges on an untimely basis: Kyiv District Court of Simferopol Didenko Denis Alexandrovich; Kharkova Kolodajna Inna Mikolayevna District Court; The Sokirian District Court of the Czernovets region of Olena Dmitrovna Coastal Region; Kyiv Mazurik Olen Fedorovna, District Court of Vossiow; Righteous District Court of Kiev Solomon Olga Bronislavna Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u155	Yes, there were no comments either. I'm putting to the vote a project, a Supreme Council decree on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. [[Registration number 8419-1]] Please vote. [[12:40:18]] For 272 Thank you. It's been decided. Next order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u156	Draft Decree on the Election of Judges No. 8419-2. To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Kondratov Irina Dmitrovna; The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Rare Galina Volodymyrna, Timishenko Catherine Grigorovna; the Court of Appeal of the Panceyev District of Pankeyev, Alexander Viktorovich; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk district of Maksut Irina Alexandrovna; The Court of Appeal of the Mikolai District of Loktionov Oksana Vitaliyevna, Tsaruk Lilia Mikhailnovna; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Krivchun Tamara Alexiyevna; the Court of Appeal of Kharkiv district of Ostapčik Sergija Vasilovich; the Court of Appeal of the Vorontsov Svetorovna District of Chernigiv; Zhitomir's Administrative Court of Appeal, Bondarchuk Igor Fedorovich, Bučik Anna Jurijovna; The Kyiv Court of Appeal, Hanecko Olen Mikolayevna; Donetsk’s Court of Appeal of Agriculture Mesencev Evgen Igorovich; Sevastopol’s Economic Court of Sikorsk Natal Ivanovna Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u157	Yes, Your Honor, there are no comments on the candidates. I put to the vote the Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number of Decree 8419-2]] Please vote. [[12:42:21]] For 287 A decision has been made. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, Your Honor! I welcome the elected judges, but only a few men. It has happened that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been overthrown today by the process of forming a judicial corps. And these are the things that happen when the Supreme Council of Justice checks the citizens' appeals, the Ukrainian National Deputies' petitions for raids, other passions, and there's a hundred percent of the data that we have to release people, we've assigned them today. I mean Vasiliev, the Righteous District Court, the city of Kiev. There is a test of what needs to be done to get out of office. There's a check on Tchakouk, Ralchenko, Vasilishin. Ladies and gentlemen, these are four men. Article 89 of the Constitution is not repealed. I point out that it's impossible to choose and then ask questions about liberation. We should probably get back to the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u159	You're absolutely right, this question doesn't come up once in a while. You and the cards in your hands as the first deputy head of the committee. Make changes to legislation and it will be as you suggest. Although I am also in solidarity with you in that before the system of selection and appointment was, in my view, more effective. But we are acting in accordance with the Law on the Courtship. Please, we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u160	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u161	We can't do this anymore because they're already chosen because they're already chosen. So if you have any comments, you can send them from the committee to the High Council of Justice to look into matters. We don't have a choice. We can only release them by filing with the High Council of Justice. And now the head of the High Council of Justice, Koleschenko Volodymyr Mikolajovic, will report the rulings on the dismissal of the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u162	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I want to point out that the Higher Council of Justice is actually doing checks on these citizens, the judges. And there is a prospect that regardless of their appointment to the Court of Appeal, we will consider this issue. If there's any reason to make a release proposal, we'll bring them in. Therefore, the appointment for this position is not a indulgence of the fact that it will not be responsible for the actions that were taken in the courts of the first instance when they were working. Morally, though, it is wrong to say what we are assigning when a violation is evident. At least we should stop at the point where they are assigned. And the High Council of Justice will take measures to deal with it at the proper time. The draft Decision on the release in connection with the violation of the oath of Judge Anatolia of the judge of Anatholia, who served as judge of the Kirov district court of Dnipropetrovska. At the address of the Supreme Council and the High Council of Justice, the Justice Committee also received telegrams from Vasina saying that she was in hospital and could not be present at the meeting. She also appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court with a complaint about the decision of the High Council of Justice. In the past session, the situation was the same. In view of the fact that she is in the hospital, the decision to postpone was made. I think the judge deliberately uses his right to abuse him. And I'd like to look at it without it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u163	Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, not then to the Supreme Council of the Court of Justice, and will the court order be reinstated, reinstated?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u164	Adam Ivanovich, well, this could be endless. It's a sick body all over the judge's.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u165	I understand. But let's probably not violate KZOT. Because unfortunately, the court that will consider her application, and it is clear that she will probably do so, will decide that the Supreme Council did not have the right to do so. So I suggest we postpone. But, again, let's legally look for a way out. You and I once had a position: If we don’t deal with the issue twice, it doesn’t come up, we can look at it for the third time without it. That's why I don't see any options, dear colleagues. Don't excite, because we've already had a couple of lawsuits about this sort of thing. When the courts decided to cancel the Supreme Council’s decree. I don't want this to go on. Filipina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u166	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we did have a couple of lawsuits. At the same time, on the basis of these appeals, the Supreme Council once again ruled on the release of these judges from office. But that was on the basis that the Supreme Council had immediately released judges who had warned that they would not be able to arrive. And that's exactly what the court has pointed out, is that for the first time it is necessary to delay and allow a judge to either recover or reach the Supreme Council Hall. We're not listening to this judge for the first time, so this will all be consistent with the legal positions of the Supreme Administrative Court. That's why I'm proposing another proposal: to consider it without the judge's involvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u167	Yes, thank you. Your offer has the right to life, but it contradicts KZot. Because once again, I repeat, you, those sitting in the session room, and the leadership of the Supreme Council, you need to be sorry to clap your eyes when it comes to deciding that you and I have made an illegal decision. And then when you're back with you, you have to rescind our previous decisions and make other decisions again. So let's settle this legislatively. Let's put, really, in the law on courtship, if we can't look at more than twice, we're looking at the third time, and then no court will say that we were breaking the law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry to break it to you, but, well, unfortunately, I'm sorry. So let us not consider the matter. Next order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u168	Decree No. 8386 — in connection with the violation of the Judges' oath to release the judges: Boryspolski District Court of Kiev Bondarenko Igor Anatoliyovich and Zaviruhu Alexi Vasilovich. Bondarenko Igor Anatoliyovich is absent from the Supreme Council. There's information that he is, and I've informed you last time that he's on a maternity leave. After the decision of the High Council of Justice to file a release for breach of oath, he changed his wife, who was on maternity leave and on maternity leave, and became on vacation. I would like to point out that, on this point, I would like to make a small comment on the fact that the work of the judge is governed by the Law on Justice and the Status of Judges, and the rules of labour law do not extend to the judge because it is a public service, and we need to get out of the question, all of which is a sign that he is a civil servant, that he is a special subject, a judge, and the standards of labour law do not extend to him. [[KZOT]] That's why I'd ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u169	But I ask that this explanation be given to those courts that make completely different decisions and oblige the Supreme Council to revoke its rulings. There's something else going on here. We have already considered this issue twice or three times, the point being that Judge Bondarenko is on a child - care leave. Shall we consider the questions? There's no objection. Then, please, I would like to put to the vote the proposal that, in connection with the violation of the judge's oath to release the judge from office as judge of the Borispol District Court of Kiev, Bondarenko Igor Anatoliyovich. [[Registration number of Decree 8386]] Please vote. [[12:51:44]] For 291 A decision has been made. Please, after Zavirus, Alexia Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u170	Alexei Vasilovich is the judge of the same court. There's a telegram saying he's in the hospital. For the second time, it does not appear at the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u171	How many times have we considered it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u172	Twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u173	Twice? Is that the third?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u174	Yeah. For that reason, we discussed this issue for a second time at a meeting of the Supreme Council and reiterated our call to the Supreme Council to support our decision. Please consider without his participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u175	Yes. Well, here we are, really. I recall that we had more than once returned to that decision. Let's do it this way. Who in charge of considering the release of Judge Sverushka in his absence, please vote. [[12:52:53]] For 295 I am voting for a motion to be released from office of judge at the Kyiv District District Court of Borispilla, Alexia Vasilovich, in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath (registration number).
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u176	Bondarenka, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u177	Bondarenko's already been released. No, no, no, registration number 8386. Please vote. [[12:53:36]] For 295
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u179	Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, we've released, we've voted Bondarenko for release. And here's two votes, because Bondarenko has a slightly different cause, not a disease. Yes. And we also have a release. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, and 8,420 draft decrees?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u180	Excuse me. The Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting on 5 April this year, pursuant to paragraph 9 of the fifth part of article 126, article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law of Ukraine on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the release of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the higher specialized courts, appeals and local courts from positions under the general circumstances and decided to make a corresponding submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All judges find that their actual will, foreign influence, or coercion in their decision to release has not been established. The Higher Council of Justice proposes that the judges be released: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Sulga Alexandr Fedorovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Trohimczuk, Alexiyyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Melitopol Regional Court of Zaporozhye District of Pljev Svetlana Fedorovna, in view of the inability to exercise its health authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u181	No questions, no comments? Then I put to the vote the draft Decision on the release of judges in connection with the application for resignation and the inability to exercise health authority. Please vote. [[12:55:33]] For 292 It's been decided. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us welcome those judges whom we have chosen today and wish them good success in their work. [[Applause]] We are considering: the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on crimes against life, health, will, honor and dignity]] [[Registration number 7110]] Shemchuk Viktor Viktorovich reports from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u182	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! At a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, held on 16 March 2011, a bill amending the Criminal Code was considered and prepared for consideration in the second reading. [[on crimes against life, health, will, honor and dignity]] During the drafting of the bill, seven proposals were made to him in the second reading of the draft law. Of these, 6 are included in whole or in part, 1 is rejected - National Deputy Carmazin amendment, number 4, but the agreed position with Yuri Anatoliovich: he does not deny. The bill, prepared by the committee in the last edition, amended articles 150, "The Exploitation of Children" and 150, bearing the 1st "The Use of a Child to Enslave," of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The changes proposed are to be removed from these articles, their special purpose being to commit a crime with a view to earning income, which is a necessary sign of the crimes involved, and to complement article 150 with a third to establish responsibility for the actions envisaged in the first and second parts of this article if they are committed by an organized criminal group. These changes will enhance the effectiveness of crime management, such as child exploitation and the use of young children to engage in begging. With regard to the observations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority, the second committee reads only all the comments made by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate. Today, however, the General Legal Department blames the committee. Based on the content of the comments made by the General Legal Authority, it looks like a flaw, more than that, the comments made by the lawyers are inconclusive, which is completely incomprehensible, how they can be counted in the bill. I want to complement myself with the fact that I, as a practitioner, and a man with experience in law enforcement, can assure you that the exploitation of children and forcing them to engage in begging is a socially dangerous phenomenon, regardless of the purpose of the criminals. Such actions are, in any case, illegal. Thus, the committee does not explicitly agree with the comments made by the Chief Legal Authority and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u183	Okay, wait, Victor, wait. Yeah, no notes? Yuri Anatoliyovich agrees with the committee’s approach, which they found in agreement. That's why I'm going to vote on a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and in the whole Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on crimes against life, health, will, honor and dignity]] Registration number 7110. Please vote. [[12:59:18]] For-93 Not supported. Again? Who's in charge of rerouting, please make up your mind. [[12:59:44]] For 278 It's going to be repeated, and I'd like you to reconsider the General Legal Authority's observation, including. We are considering a draft Act amending article 48 of the Mining Law of Ukraine. [[on social guarantees for mining workers]] The committee reports to Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich. You don't? Dear colleagues! Here was a single amendment made by a colleague of Martinenko, who was taken into account that the law took effect, not on January 1, 2011, but on January 1, 2012. Please, there was only one amendment, it has been taken into account, so we have every reason to support the committee's decision, to take a second reading and in general, the Law on Amendments to Article 48 of the Ukrainian Mining Code, Vote. [[on social guarantees for mining workers]] [[Registration number 6437]] [[13:01:11]] For-82 On the second, we vote. [[13:01:34]] For 283 They're re-created. Carmazine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u184	Dear National Deputies! The situation is this: I would now show Adam Ivanovich the image of the Supreme Council apparatus, the department of service correspondence, which was written on 29.12.2010. I would like to point out that the committee considered the amendments on March 16 this year, almost four months after the amendments I made. They don't count. That's why I'm asking, I'm even reacting where there is something to be changed, and now you and I have failed the bill again because of the position of the Ministry of Justice as reported by colleague Shemchuk. These children are forced, exploited, forced to beg, and we have not adopted the bill simply because of the position of the Ministry of Justice. Dear National Deputies! It's easier to change one of Lavrinovich's than it is to keep our eyes on the abuse when we're sending out a project that's completely overworked.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u185	The draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the provision of social security for mining workers]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number 6437-1]] Reported by Deputy Chief of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Volinc Mikhailo Yakovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u186	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, TV and radio listeners! In this case, we have consolidated two bills that have been drafted by the national deputy Eugeni Volinec, also by Mr. Landik of the Party of Regions. These bills provide for the implementation of articles 43, 48 of the Mining Law regarding social guarantees to pensioners, their families in enterprises that are being eliminated or are in a state of restructuring. So let's think about the situation, the mines that continue to operate today, but they're assigned to the fourth group, that's in a group of restructurings, and people continue to extract coal, but today, there's no investment shafts, and people are working in worse conditions than those mines that refer to the first and second groups. And so there's no provision for the benefits for workers of these mines, because previously the mines just didn't close and there was no such word as "restructuring." In this case, these bills also provide for a category of workers and businesses that are subject to this law. It is also foretold that this law will be implemented and that it will enter into force on January 1, 2012. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u187	Thank you. Yes, Vezevski, 7th doesn't count. Don't insist. Yes, Carmazin, 10th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I propose a paragraph in the first part of Article 48 5 to read as follows: "According to the liquidation or preservation of a mining company, the person to whom this obligation is made is provided with coal for the consumption of coal within the tariff agreement to such criteria." and still the criteria in fact. Now I'm calling your attention, honourable national deputies, and I'm asking you to support my amendment. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill passed by the government of 7562 essentially eliminates the benefits of this law. I mean, it's a good thing you're working, Mr. Mikhailo, it means improving, but you obviously didn't see that the Law on Enforcement of Judgments offered to eliminate such benefits altogether. And that's why people need to know what's going on in society today?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u189	I'll give you an answer. Indeed, the Law on Budgets does not provide for the implementation of these benefits and does not provide for the payment of the benefits that need to be done under mining law, the Law on Enhancing the Prosperity of Mining Work, the wages of the minimum wage increase and so forth. And that's why we're forced to write new bills once in a while to implement those benefits that are provided for by other laws. Unfortunately, however, Parliament does not vote in favour of these bills very often today. For example, for a bill in my power to implement the Law on Improving the Prosperity of Mining and Mining Law 43, 48 articles. And that's why Landik already wrote the bill and Eugene Wolitz and Victor Turmanov. I'm addressing you, honourable members of the Party of Regions, let's vote for this bill this time, it's now being discussed in a second reading. It's extremely important for miners, especially since this year's budget cuts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u190	Karmazin's 10th amendment is voting. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:07:42]] For-34 And 18th. No, sorry, 16th. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u191	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a part of the sixth article of article 48, which reads as follows: "After the liquidation or preservation of a mining company, coal-supplying categories of persons listed in part five of this article are carried out by a person defined in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.".. There can be no such thing as if the company was destroyed, then the miner was not provided. There can't be one, because it's legal! Who will do this? Please let him determine the order of the Cabinet of Ministers. But we have to stop, people go, they make their lives, they work, they get their pensions, they have this guarantee. You cannot deprive them of this guarantee on the basis of article 22 of the Constitution, this narrowing down their rights. And, Mr. Michael, I, knowing your principle position, I think you must support this amendment. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u192	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you so much for raising that question. In Soviet times, when the mine was closed, workers were attached locally to another enterprise, and these benefits were automatically distributed to workers and their families. Now these people just stay out of compliance with current legislation. So I am very much asking you to vote for the proposal offered by Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u193	The 16th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:09:43]] For 216 Who's in favour of coming back to the 16th Amendment, please vote. Vote. [[13:10:04]] For 178. Less. We're not back. We've been through all the repairs. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and in general a law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the provision of social security for mining workers. [[Registration number 6437-1]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u194	What are you doing? [[13:10:41]] For 101
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u195	Not accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u196	The factions, please. Region Party 7, Fatherland – 50, People's Self-Defense – Ukraine – 14, Communists – 25, Reforms – 2, People's Party – did not vote, non-fractional – 3. The issue is being addressed – the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on mandatory public social insurance. [[on the strengthening of payment discipline in the payment of contributions to public compulsory social insurance funds]] [[Registration number 6116]] Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u197	Honorary colleagues, Bill 6116 in second reading, were issued and directed by the author and us, entities of the legislative initiative to strengthen financial discipline and improve the state of the Unemployment Social Insurance Fund. Let me remind you of a few words, because people ask you where you are in the districts. Today, unemployment benefits amount to about 810 dollars a month. To the Social Insurance Fund, the fund’s budget is about 9 billion dollars. I mean, why would I say that, you can imagine if there wasn't a Social Insurance Fund, where would we get these social assistance funds from people who for one reason or another lost their jobs? Today we have 1 million 786 thousand unemployed. In view of the decline in unemployment, we have cut our payments to the fund, and today the employer pays 1.9 percent of the Fund’s wages, 0.6 is paid by the hired worker. What happened to Socstrach funds at all? In 2008, in an effort to overcome or save or minimize the effects of the financial crisis, the government made an unbalanced decision, allowing wages to be paid, not including the Socstrach funds. Today we have problems. Socstrach Foundation for temporary disability loss, hospital leave delay. We have a delay in paying people off regressive lawsuits, those that have suffered from manufacturing. For the first time in years, we have been able to help people who have lost their jobs and need either retraining or temporary assistance until they find them. 30 amendments were made. Twenty-two of them, part three, negative five. I'll allow it right after the repairs. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin and I already have this practice. Yuri Anatoliyovich, your amendments to the 12th, 13th and 17th related to the situation where there was not yet a collection and a single contribution to the general government social insurance. Today, banks are subject to one Pension Fund. Your amendments to other funds that work with banks are not working today because there is only one social contribution in Ukraine. And the business entity, the director, the factory, is working with the Pension Fund today. The Pension Fund is working with the bank. So I'd like your revisions to 12th, 13th and 17th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u198	Yes, dear colleagues, this is all well, but please listen to the observation of the General Legal Department. The bill is subject to rejection as such that it has lost its relevance and does not comply with the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. So, dear fellows, I can't do it. Please tell the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u199	We've come to that conclusion. I report to the session, and I ask that the Supreme Council determine. In order to ensure the financial stability of the general government social insurance fund in the event of unemployment, one rule remains in this law: "Recast the legislative rule for the creation of a reserve of funds of the fund in the amount necessary for the payment of unemployment assistance for at least 5 calendar days". If we don't, at any time, a social insurance fund in case of unemployment may fail to perform its social assistance functions for people on monthly payments. That's why we made that decision. We agree with the legal department, and we ask the bill to be adopted by the committee's proposed amendment, which, by the way, is legal. And Yuri Anatoliyovich agrees with this, it doesn't apply right now, it's not relevant, because the only social contribution worked.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u200	So, dear fellows, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to accept in the second reading only what the committee supported and what doesn't go beyond 116 articles of the Rules, just what doesn't work. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll explain. [[13:16:07]] For 256 Once again, dear colleagues. We only accepted those amendments to the committee that were taken into account, something that didn't go beyond the first reading. What goes beyond first reading is not accepted in this law. Only as regards the first reading of the amendments. Articles relating to other laws that were not considered in the first reading were rejected. Here's what I'm asking you to do in this key is prepare a bill for the lawyers and committee to sign. It's under review. They passed the whole law, yeah. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u201	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich! We made the wrong decision. Who will determine on which amendments are accepted, which are not accepted? Who will determine that?Oh, my God! Where does the regulation provide for this? Adam Ivanovich, the Supreme Council has not worked as hard as it is now. You know, you'll excuse me, in Soviet times, which you value very much, like your faction, not that you couldn't work that way, but you've been looking at three readings. Open the regulations, Adam Ivanovich?Oh, my God! I'm asking you, let's not put legislative activity to God knows what. Another second reading, so let's do the second reading again. We're going to delete those amendments that were made to the 116th violation. But no one in the apparatus has the right to determine and then to review after the vote. Adam Ivanovich, if you do not have it, with all due respect to you, neither you nor Litwin, no one else has the right to do it! Not Mikola Tomenko, with all due respect. Only the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to do so!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u202	The Supreme Council, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, did so with a total of 256 votes. Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, tell Yuri Anatoliovich again, for which we voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u203	Dear colleagues! Do not disturb a situation where it does not have any grounds. I'm sorry. I wanted to save time, use my two minutes both to report by law, and by amendment. For those of you who don't understand or someone is fooling around that they don't get it, I explain it to those who are fooling around. There's only one rule left! Listen to me carefully. The norm in the first reading, we all reject the amendments. Because the legal authorities correctly asked the question of how the only social contribution would work! All insurance premiums are paid centrally. There's no more relationship with the banks. There is only a standard required for the viability of the Social Insurance Fund in case of unemployment in order to provide a reserve of pay. We can't know how much tomorrow's unemployment is going to be, either way. There is still a legislative norm for the creation of a fund reserve. Am I reading to you or to whom? The amount needed to pay unemployment benefits is not less than five calendar days. That was the norm. That's what's going to happen. It is written in the law, that is, in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u204	Thank you, thank you. () [[B in m in s a l in]] We are considering a draft Act amending articles 19 and 43 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act. [[on fines]] [[Registration number 6134]] Report to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Smélov Svetlana Alexandrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u205	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! On January 11, 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a bill in its first reading amending articles 19 and 43 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Konovaluk, Derkac, Kravchenk. By decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Social Policy and Work was entrusted with the task of finalizing the draft bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions made by legal entities and submitting it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading. The drafters propose to amend articles 19 and 43 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act with the aim of strengthening administrative responsibility for violations of labour protection legislation and bringing these rules into line with the current legislation of Ukraine. The amendments to article 19 of the Labour Protection Act proposed that employers spend 0.5 percent on job protection on the amount of products, jobs, goods and services implemented per year. Amendments to article 43 of the same law establish the order and mechanism for the application of a fine for violations of labour law, the procedure for his complaint, and the payment of pennies for indemnity, or the partial payment of fines applied to the employer. The committee considered 36 proposals made by national deputies, of which 19, others were rejected for a number of reasons. At its meeting on March 2, this year, the Committee decided to approve the text of a comparative table with the proposals and amendments of the Ukrainian national deputies and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in its second reading and in general. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a number of comments on the project and, in a general conclusion, noted that the bill could be adopted on second reading, provided that the comments were taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, let us follow the articles. Zvegilski, 2nd Amendment. Don't insist. Carmazine, 4th. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u207	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am quite satisfied with this law. More or less the amendments are taken into account, so I'm not going to ask questions about my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u208	Thank you. Who else in the unaccounted for amendments insists on the arguments of these amendments? None. Then, with your permission, I'll put a motion to the vote. That's more than four. In fact, I did not see. I put to the vote a proposal for a profile committee: to adopt, on second reading and in general, the Act amending articles 19 and 43 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act. [[on fines]] [[Registration number 6134]] Please vote. [[13:23:50]] For-36 Number two, please vote. [[13:24:11]] For 247 Supported. He's heading for the second one again. We're looking at a draft law amending the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act on financial monitoring of the activities of professional participants in the stock market. [[Registration number 7051-d]] The committee is Praslov Igor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u209	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill proposes to introduce, first, additional requirements for financial monitoring of stock market participants. The requirements would concern both the participants themselves and their affiliates and other units, both in Ukraine and abroad. Secondly, it is envisaged that persons with unliquidated or unliquidated obligations for an offence in the financial and performance spheres should not be allowed to hold a significant share of the statutory capital of the professional participants in the stock market. Our committee finalized the bill and considered it at its meeting on 2 February. During the finalization, the comments of the deputies and the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office were analysed. A total of 5 amendments had been made, 4 of them had been fully taken into account, and 1 had been revised. Some of the proposals proposed by the General Legal Office were also taken into account. Those comments that remained unaccounted for could not be taken into account for the proper implementation of the law. I would also like to stress that this bill has been agreed with and fully supported by the Securities and Stock Market Commission. I therefore ask you to support the decision of our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u210	Thank you. All adjustments are included. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act on financial monitoring of professional participants in the stock market. [[Registration number 7051-d]] Please vote. [[13:26:33]] For 259. Law passed We are considering: the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, the second reading. [[concerning the drawing of the mortgage on the basis of the executing notary]] [[Registration number 5039]] A report by Miroshnichenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u211	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of Regions, Committee of Legal Policy The Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine discussed at its meeting on 16 March 2011 a comparative table for the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading of December 22, 2010. [[concerning the drawing of the mortgage on the basis of the executing notary]] The purpose of the bill is to deprive notaries of the possibility of performing notaries ’ writings on the documents concerning the collection of immovable property, the construction of unfinished buildings, which are the subject of a mortgage. The members of the Committee on Legal Policy decided by a majority of votes to agree with the position of the National Bank of Ukraine that the proposed legislative amendments aimed at limiting the creditor's rights to meet its legal requirements to the debtor at the expense of the mortgage. Taking into account what has been said, it has been decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act to amend certain laws of Ukraine as a result of its second reading rejection. [[concerning the drawing of the mortgage on the basis of the executing notary]] Please support the committee's decision and, in fact, reject this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u212	Do you understand the position? I am voting on a motion by the committee to reject the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the drawing of the mortgage on the basis of the executing notary]] [[Registration number 5039]] Please vote. [[13:29:11]] For 280 Decision taken. That is, the bill is rejected and withdrawn. We are considering: the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment. [[on civilian units. Protection]] Registration number 7250. Reported by the Deputy Chairman of the Committee, Suhi Jaroslav Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u213	The bill consisted of one sentence: "Exclusion of the words "civil defence forces" and complementing the words "organs and civil protection units." I have a stenographer in my hands. It is I who appeal to the zealots of regular purgatory. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk: I am voting for acceptance. Although we could accept it as a law in general, there is no change here. The National Deputy of Ukraine, he forgot his last name, which was sitting here three times taking the floor, talking about principles, incompetence of principles, standing on principle to the end, and we put it on the committee. No comments, no amendments, changes in "civil defense troops," the word "organs and civil protection units." And this will apply to people who will be considered insured in the event of the replacement of unemployment insurance. Please support as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Jaroslav Mikhailovich reminded the situation, but the right was the authors. I'm the only one who thinks we should support Tolstenck's amendment that you've rejected. She has the right to life. What is it? The law takes effect from the day of its publication. This is the norm, that is, the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u215	Yeah, yeah, yeah. And that's the idea of Carmazin that's worth supporting. That is, with the amendment that this law takes effect from the day of its publication. I put it to a vote: to adopt, in the second reading and in general, the Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment. [[on Civil Protection Units]] Please vote. [[13:31:45]] For-286 The law is passed, thank you. We are considering the draft Organic Production Act. [[Registration number 7003]] [[second reading]] He reports: the head of the Committee, Kaletnik Grigory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u216	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations has considered a very important bill on organic production submitted by the People’s Deputies Lithuania and Tomenko. [[Registration number 7003 from 19.07.2010]] The committee received 170 proposals from members of the people, of whom 42 were rejected, taken into account in whole or in part 128 amendments. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations at the meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the Law on Organic Production in the second reading and as a whole as a law. [[Registration number 7003]] There's a point to the bill by the Chief Legal Authority, and I'd like to focus on it. Regarding the observation that organic production rules cannot be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, the committee did not agree with this definition of the Legal Authority, because article 7 of this project, which is exactly what the Cabinet of Ministers can approve of organic production rules and they cannot be the body of the bill. As for the Legal Authority's observation that funding for the support of organic production operators should be made at the expense of the State Budget's budget is in the bill, the legal administration denies this rule, the committee supports the observation of the legal administration and this bill is asked by the committee to exclude. The point made by the legal authorities regarding other articles is not supported by the committee, since they are really technical in nature and are regulated either by other laws or by the rules of articles of the same law, but by other articles. The proposal of the General Legal Office for the consolidation of article 10 of the bill and article 20 of the committee does not deny this, and in the course of the bill as a whole, we can also work together on this technical standard before signing it. Regarding the rejection of amendments by national deputies, please let me answer if anyone insists on their amendments included. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u217	Thank you. I'll go to the deputies, there's the amendments of colleague Carmazin, if he insists, and we'll look at them, and Tomenka. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u218	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, you know me more than a lawyer, and I am also the head of a public organization called "For Pure Agriculture and a Safe Environment." That's why I put a large part of the proposals to this bill, namely 47 proposals, two thirds of them the committee, by cooperating, counted, rejected, because they were either out of date or counted in another edition. I think this is an example of a constructive interaction between the authorities and the opposition. And I will not insist on the rejected amendments, because most of them are counted, and on behalf of the Association for Clean Agriculture and a Safe Environment, I thank you for drafting this bill, Mr. Kaletnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u219	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. But I have a question about whether there's corruption here that you're combining the position and the heads of the party and another public organization. Yes, Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u220	Dear colleagues! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that I have made a few dozen amendments. Most of them are counted or included in part. There are several amendments that are out of the question. I don't insist on voting for these amendments. And in the context of the discussion, actually, we can say that we've been debating this bill for about six months. And I'm going to remind you that we're the only country that doesn't have the principle of organic production, which is manufacturing without chemical, so to speak, without chemicalization, I'll say that. And those remarks by our lawyers, they theoretically improve this idea. But I support both the committee and the committee head of the Committee, Kaletnik Grigory Mikhailovich, that if we today do not adopt this decision and give the Cabinet of Ministers the right to prescribe a state programme, rules and so forth, we will never run this mechanism. Moreover, the bill is scheduled to enter into force on January 1, 2012. So there's the ability of Kabmin to work and the MinAPC. So I would ask my colleagues to support the committee's decision and to adopt a bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u221	Thank you. Other amendment authors insist on their consideration? I know who will. You don't? Yes, please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u222	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to re-vote the law that I mentioned in the speech. It has been commented on by the Legal Authority and comments by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This applies to financing organic production operators at the expense of the State budget. We need to remove this rule because organic production has its buyer and not a poor buyer. Therefore, it is not appropriate to support this at the expense of the State Budget today. Please support the committee's proposal to delete this rule. Please put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u223	What kind of correction is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u224	It's in the body of the project that says, "Funding the support of organic production operators should be done at the expense of the state budget." And now we have to remove it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u225	Clearly, it's understood that we are now voting for the deletion of the reference to State funding, i.e. funding from the state budget for these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u226	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u227	I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[13:39:40]] For 279 Supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u228	Thank you. Now I ask you to make the whole thing a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u229	I put to the vote the proposal for a profile committee to adopt in the second reading and in general the Organic Production Act. Registration number 7003. Please vote. Villagers, vote! [[13:40:08]] For-286 The law is passed. A replica? Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u230	Yuri Carmazin. I took the line, Adam Ivanovich, to your words about corruption. I want to tell you that unfortunately, the state is not paying any attention right now, although it can pay attention to organic farming. This is the fault of the great Prime Minister of Azarov, who has nothing to consider at all, and he can't even read the address on this matter. It is the great fault of the minister of the jury who refuses to pay attention to it, by the way, that the previous ministers have given attention. And as head of the association, as president of the Clean Agriculture and Safe Environment Association, I'm informing you, Adam Ivanovich, that we don't even have an account yet, nothing, no funds. So, Adam Ivanovich, as head of the Party of Fatherland Defenders, I assure you that we have no corruption, unlike what other parties are accusing us of, including the one you belong to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u231	I agree, Yuri Anatolyovich, that you don't have a party of corruption, because you have three members of the party, so there's no one to be corrupt. Then. We should now consider the draft law on the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity. [[Registration number 3224]] But unfortunately, we don't have a comparative table. That is why we are taking the matter to heart. The same applies to Bill 6532: the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the protection of social morality]] There's also no chart. I emphasize and pay attention to committee leaders. And the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy, that we passed Bill 3424 back in September 2010, so it would be good to have a table by now. And the Committee on Freedom of speech and information that we adopted in January 2011. You may be ready, but there are no deputies. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Animal World Act is under consideration. [[on the conservation of wild birds]] [[Registration number 7335]] According to Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich. Please read second.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u232	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, you are invited to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Animal World Act, adopted on December 24, 2010. [[Registration number 7335]] The bill proposes to include in the Animal World Act a new article on scientific research in the field of protection and rational use of animal objects. The introduction of this article will generally promote the development of appropriate scientific research, highlight the importance and relevance of scientific developments in the environmental field to improve the organisation and effectiveness of conservation and recovery of wild animals, preserve their gene pool, and contribute to the adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to the European Union, the harmonization of our legislation with the EU Council Directive on the conservation of wild birds. In the drafting of the draft for the second reading, all comments and suggestions from the Ukrainian National Deputies, the legal entities of the legislative initiative, and the observation of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office were considered and taken into account. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has demanded this bill without notice. The Committee on Environmental Policy, the Environment and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Animal World Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a law. [[Registration number 7335]] I'm willing to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u233	Thank you. Dear colleagues, comments on the bill, or those who have submitted proposals, are included. No comments from the Chief Legal Authority. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Animal World Act. [[on the conservation of wild birds]] [[Registration number 7335]] Please vote. [[13:45:37]] For 276 Copy that. Dear colleagues, as a result of consultations with Yuri Anatoliyovich, he refers to the data of the Ministry of Justice, he assures us that the Party of Protectors of India has almost 80,000 members. We're looking at a draft Ukrainian Air Code. [[Registration number 7144]] [[second reading]] I'm continuing my meeting for 15 minutes in the morning. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u234	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, honored ones! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications is proposed for consideration in the second reading of a comparative table to the draft Ukrainian Air Code, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7144 from 20.09.2010]] The bill has been introduced with the aim of harmonising the legislative field that regulates the activities of Ukrainian civil aviation with the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization, the United Aviation Authorities of Europe, the European Civil Aviation Conference, the European Aeronautics Safety Organization, and so forth. I would like to point out that from the beginning of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, this is the fourth edition of the draft Ukrainian Air Code, the three previous versions have been rejected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft Air Code 714, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was adopted by the Supreme Council on November 30, 2010. As early as December 2010, proposals for a draft code from airlines in Ukraine, airline companies in Ukraine, airline companies in Ukraine, and other organizations were considered. A total of 390 comments from national deputies were made in the comparative table, 282 of which were taken into account. I really want to stop at the basics of the bill to make it clear what we made in comparison to 1993. In accordance with the requirements of the International Civil Aviation Organization, aviation is divided into civil and state aviation. A civil aviation authority is defined as the central authority of the executive branch of civil aviation, which is formed and defined by the President of Ukraine. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has been designated as the competent executive authority in the field of state aviation. According to article 9 for the investigation of aviation events, incidents involving civilian aircraft include the creation of a specialized aviation expert agency, whose status is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The legal regulation of civil aviation will be implemented through the adoption by an authorized body in the field of civil aviation of the Ukrainian Aviation Rules, which will be developed in accordance with the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization. We worked on several other articles that harmonize international, European law in the field of aviation. Now, on the findings of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the bill. I recall that the Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council believes that the bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine complies with the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it is noted that the first reading of the draft law can be taken up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u235	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u236	that takes into account the comments made and the suggestions made. The conclusion of the General Legal Office of March 4, 2011, noted that the bill could be adopted in a second reading, provided that the observations of the legal administration were taken into account. As a result of a second reading, the Committee on Transport and Communications decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Air Code, second reading and, in general, amendments. [[Registration number 7144]] One more minute, please. Now I want the transcript to be fixed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u237	Let's do it. Please wait. Boris Anatolyevich, let's go before the vote, we'll get back to that. We're about to go through the repairs. And then before the final vote, you'll say what else the committee is proposing. Yes, dear fellows, we will follow the amendments. I'm looking at a comparative table, an array, a major array of unaccounted for amendments, which belong to the National Deputies of Blackwolf, MacKeenka and Glazonov. None of them insist on their amendments? Once again, the vast majority of amendments that are not considered by the committee are those of Blackwolf, MacKeenka, and Glazunov. They do not insist on their amendments. Now I go to other colleagues. Which one of you made the amendments, they're not counted, do you want to argue with them? Or you may have noted the amendments that the committee has taken into account, but you have a different opinion. There aren't any? Yes. Please, Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u238	I would like to draw your attention to Amendment 323, of the People's Deputies of the Gate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u239	323rd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u240	Yeah. Dear colleagues, there's some kind of case, yes. That's if I look at the table. The table states that it was approved by the Committee on 18 February of this year on second reading. On 8 February, I submitted my amendments, and they were not put in the table at all. This amendment proposes that the air carriers themselves approve their rules on how they will compensate the citizens, in the case of the absence of an aircraft, there, and all other things. These rules will be adopted by the Minister alone who directs the direction. With my rights, I suggested that this could be included in the law itself in a separate section and that our citizens should be protected from the arbitrary use of air carriers. I would like to draw your attention to another matter. In 2005, the European Parliament, by its own decision, adopted such rules and it is the European Parliament that protects air carriers, and we want to trust that in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u241	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u242	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u243	That is why, in principle, I find such an approach wrong and believe that the law must be re-readed and refined.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u244	Answer. Yuri Mikolaiovich, I think all your amendments are absolutely correct. All these changes are now adapted, adapted now, here they come to me. So once again, I would like to ask you to vote on the Rules now and vote. I think it's going to be perfectly normal, in principle, and we can accept that right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u245	Boris Anatolyovich, well, unfortunately, we're not going to adopt rules that are not there. And Yuri Mikolaiovich suggests, I think it's a good suggestion that, in fact, the rules of transport should be approved not by the air carrier himself, as it is written here, but that these rules should be approved, not even by the minister or the minister's office, but that they should be prescribed in the relevant law. And it's not just the law, it's the code. So if there's no way to write them right now, I suggest we do it, well, later change it to this code. I mean, if we accept it, then we're going to make changes to make that rule. If they are now, the rules, and you're willing to say that you can write these rules down like this, we can now vote. Please, Boris Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u246	Adam Ivanovich, there are now several possibilities, in principle, to adopt this codex in the second reading. First, with regard to article 123 of Part Four of the Supreme Council Rules, we can now vote on the Code in the second reading and amend it in the second, third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u247	I've got the point. Who else has a note? Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u248	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Indeed, Yuri Nikolaevich Voropaev has made very substantial amendments. Unfortunately, there may have been some misunderstandings, but they were not included in the second reading tables on the body, so there is a proposal to send the law to read again. The Committee is requested to consider the amendments made by Yuri Nikolaevich Voropaev and to re-read them from the position of the Committee on its amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u249	I'm still talking. I'm not asking you to make any legal decisions. I refer to the authors of the amendments, which are not included, first; and secondly, to those who have comments on the amendments that have been taken into account. There aren't any, are there? None. No, now, wait. I'm talking again. We heard your idea, Yuri Mikolaiovich, and your remarks. I turn to others. None. Now, please, what are the suggestions of the committee, what are the decisions, what are the additions? Boris Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u250	The addition is, in principle, purely technical. Now that I've looked closely, technically, it's just been ruled out of here, the situation is that from the Final Provisions of the Bill on Amendments to Article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals of Social Protection should be excluded from paragraph 5 of the Fifth. This applies to the social protection of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u251	Right. Yeah, it's on the transcript we're taking. Yes, please, no other comments? None. Then I put to the vote first the proposal for a profile committee to adopt in a second reading the entire Ukrainian Air Code. [[Registration number 7144]] Please vote. [[13:56:47]] For-84 The factions, please. The Party of Regions did not vote, BUT 26, "Our Ukraine" - 1, the Communists - 23, "Reforms" - 12, the People's Party - 20, non-fractional - 2. And there was a suggestion, my dear colleagues, that this bill should be re-readed with the task of assigning the committee to a shorter term, i.e. for seven days to prepare it for re-second reading. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Vote. [[13:57:36]] For 278 The Ukrainian Air Code project is aimed at second reading with the task of a profile committee to shorten the deadlines for its preparation so that we can do so next plenary week, which will begin on May 11. No, well, you have a right because this one, because this is the second again, Yuri Anatolyovich. You'll work a little, you'll work. Dear colleagues, I continue, I'm sorry, I've continued for 15 minutes. We are considering: a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the organization of the functions of state electricity authorities. [[Registration number 8152]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:58:48]] For 204 Offer supported. From Kabmin reports Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy Korniaków. I see. Correspondent from the committee is Romanyuk Mikola Prokopovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u252	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law under consideration is proposed to bring into line with the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and Regulations on Electricity and on Heating by Making Changes and Supplements in the Implementation of State Control in Electricity and Heat. The draft law provides for the improvement of the system of state energy authorities through the creation of a single energy inspection. On the basis of the State Energy Inspectorate, it is planned to create a State Energy Inspectorate with the transfer of appropriate functions. The newly created inspection will be subordinated to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry. The adoption of the bill will allow for the clarification of the order, the subject matter, the means of national energy surveillance, the authorization of the authorities of the State’s energy authority, which will reduce the pressure on operators, manufacturers, transmitters, suppliers and consumers of electricity, while increasing their responsibility for failing to comply with the requirements of current legislation. At the legislative level, it is proposed to strengthen the existing mechanism for financing auxiliary measures to ensure the continued operation of energy systems. The adoption of the bill will comply with the Presidential Decree on Optimization of the System of Central Executive Authorities and the Statute of the State Energy Inspectorate. The Committee on Fuel and Energy, following discussions at its meeting, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u253	Yes, thank you, have a seat. Are there any who would like to participate in the discussion? Doesn't anyone want to? Yes, then I put to the vote a proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the organization of the functions of state electricity authorities. Registration number 8152. Please vote. [[14:01:56]] For 261 Copy that. We're considering a bill amending some of Ukraine's accounting laws, registration number 8194. There's an offer: a reduced procedure. [[14:02:23]] For 218. Copy that. Deputy Finance Minister Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u254	Clearly, dear colleagues, I understand the Cabinet of Ministers. The thing is, they probably didn't expect what it was. Perhaps they did not expect us to get through the second reading so quickly, but they did not soften or justify it. I'm making a note of the Cabinet of Ministers. So the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, Billous Irina Anatolylna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u255	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! The bill provides for a mandatory transition to financial reporting under international standards for the following business actors, for public shareholders, once for banks, insurance companies, as well as for individual enterprises that carry out separate activities whose list is established by the Cabinet of Ministers. The adoption of this law is important because an effective accounting record that is consistent with international practice is one of the tools that can increase the investment attractiveness of the economy and improve the investment climate in the country. In addition, the European integration processes in Ukraine and the active development of international cooperation also involve the transition of as many enterprises in Ukraine as possible to international financial reporting standards. At the same time, I would like to stress that other enterprises, other than those I have called, have the right to determine for themselves the feasibility of applying international financial reporting standards. Either international standards or national ones, they determine it themselves. The Chief Research Office of the Supreme Council Office has made separate comments and proposals to the bill, inter alia, that the disclosure of annual financial reporting by banks has already been resolved by a new edition of article 69 of the Banks and Banking Act. We must accept this and the Committee on Economic Policy will take this into account in the second reading process. There are also proposals to clarify certain provisions of the bill, but in general the Committee on Economic Affairs proposes to adopt the bill on first reading and as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u256	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Do you want to talk about it? Please, Sas. Sasu microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u257	Thank you. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Why don't we stop raping the Supreme Council? The second bill is being considered on the initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers, and there are no reporters. I've been in Parliament for a long time, but I don't remember any of that from the Cabinet of Ministers ignoring a report from the Supreme Council. So, Adam Ivanovich, let's stop this, it's a fact of flagrant disrespect for the higher legislature. I repeat, there have never been such things. And you do not, according to article 31 of the Rules, even by a reduced procedure, have to consider bills that do not have a report. Thank you for your attention. Let's stop all this stuff, close the meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u258	You're right, but the law has been declared, we'll make a decision, and we'll consult there. There are no others to discuss. Then I put to the vote a proposal for a profile committee to adopt as a basis in the first reading a bill amending some of Ukraine's accounting laws. [[Registration number 8194]] Please vote. [[14:07:11]] For 249 Thank you. Copy that. Pancake microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u259	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, I'd like to ask you to return to Law 7304, that's why. Fortunately or unfortunately, the profession of notaryus has become prestigious, and how prestigious is the deficit, and where there is a shortage of corruption. That's the law. It's the law that takes away the corruption component. Therefore, I ask you with conviction, Adam Ivanovich, to put this law to a vote and return to its vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, the proposal came back to the Bill 7304, which we discussed with you in the second reading process, all the amendments, but there were not enough two votes or one vote to accept. Who's to go back to voting on this bill, please vote. [[14:08:40]] For 235 We're back. I'm betting on the vote to be adopted in the second reading and in general the Act on Amendments to the Act on Notariat. [[on requirements for notary activity]] [[Registration number 7304]] Please vote. [[14:09:11]] For 232 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Break till 4:00. Please come, we have a lot of work to do.
