ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests and invited Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[10:00:18]] There are 379 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Let's join our colleagues in welcoming today's good day in their lives, namely their birthday, Labunski Angelika Viktorovna and Shamanov Valerija Viktorovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! I'm bringing to your attention the results of the Supreme Council's plenary meeting yesterday, November 1. We've discussed 42 issues of the agenda with you. As a result of their consideration, five decrees were adopted, nine bills were adopted on the basis of which two bills were converted to the subject matter of the legislative initiative, 17 bills and one draft decree were rejected. Dear colleagues, in accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to present proposals, announcements, messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Yes, please, Tischenka, get ready for Samylenka Yuri Pavlovich. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u2	It's on. I give the word to Oleni Fedorovni Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u3	Please, Bondarenko, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u4	Olena Bondarenko, faction of the "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", Party of the "Fatherland". Dear colleagues, today there is a co-reporter of the monitoring committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Among others, a meeting with Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko was scheduled. Clearly, such a meeting will not occur, there will be a watchful and completely independent Mr. Kyrieev. My colleagues and I in the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland" in the meantime received exactly the same answers, until the coma, to Mr. Kiriev's statements of a date with Julia Timoshenko. "Your statement does not state the appropriate evidence to show that there is a basis for granting a date permit," writes independent Kiriev. The purpose of my date with Julia Volodymyrna is to support her more humanly, to inquire about her health, self-esteem, conditions of detention and communication, I wrote in my concern for Judge Kiriev. The same goal was for my fellow national deputies to apply to court for a meeting with our leader, who, without the slightest error, the ruling regime had left for playing where it had been for more than 80 days. Is our goal wrong, inhuman, immoral, inadequate? Of course not. But the legal, human, moral, adequate grounds of the apiorists cannot be taken into account by the inhumane, immoral, inadequate authority that has put itself outside the laws of man and of God. The European and the world community condemns the political repression that the Yanukovitch regime has been undergoing in the fight against opposition and describes Timoshenko’s indictment as a violation of human rights and the abuse of the judicial system for political persecution of leading opposition politicians. "The trial against Timoshenko is totally contrary to the Ukrainian government's commitment to democracy and European values," said the European Parliament resolution. The world is outraged by the collapse of democracy, the transformation of state institutions into instruments for the realization of party goals and political revenge. Meanwhile, new criminal cases are being violated against Julia Timoshenko, just as stupid and stupid as the fear of today’s power against this delicate woman with the lion’s heart and the unbreakable Cossack will. The brutal debate over Yulia Timoshenko threatened to sign an agreement between the EU and Ukraine on an association. The signing of the Free Trade Agreement with the European Union scheduled for December 2011 can also be postponed with severe consequences for Ukraine. Where do Ukraine lead these Braygel blinds? To complete isolation. In spite of the Ukrainian will, the government is blocking the door to a civilized world, its values, its laws, and its rules. "The Ukrainian authorities of President Yanukovic have reached an alarming record in the deterioration of democracy and the rule of law," states the United States senators. Lords, read the great Shevchenka. It's you he's been telling you for centuries: " Surrender! Be human, for you will be in trouble."..
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u5	Yes, Yuri Samuelenko gives Anatoly Kinacha the word. Please, the faction of the Party of Regions. Get ready, Necsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u6	Respectable national MPs, respected citizens, under conditions of increasing competition, risks to European and world markets, economic, financial markets, have the unique importance of protecting the State’s internal market by modern methods, supporting the national exporter, ensuring that effective import programmes are implemented, and localizing production on Ukrainian soil. As a result of these priorities, the President of Ukraine, the government is substantially reinforcing foreign economic policy and it is essential that all official official visits of the President of Ukraine are organized and carried out with the active participation of those who produce the national product, pay taxes and ensure the state's activities. That is, industrialists, entrepreneurs, businessmen in Ukraine. And every official visit is accompanied by powerful business forums where we seek common interests with our partners. These activities are particularly important in terms of worsening the trade external balance of Ukraine, including payments. Including the fact that Ukraine is forced to pay the very high prices for natural gas, which have been recorded in the January 2009 agreements, which are totally not in line with the national interests of Ukraine and the laws of the economy. Based on this, as an example, the last visit by the President of Ukraine to the Federal Republic of Brazil provides an opportunity to significantly strengthen our positions throughout the South American continent. For help, Brazil is a state that today has an economy at the level of seven in the world -- 2.3 trillion dollars. A state that is strong in shaping its direction. Including Ukraine and the current Cylon-4 project, the construction of a cosmodrome in the area of the equator, allowing Ukraine to take a powerful place in the space services market. On the basis of the above, honourable national MPs, honourable citizens, as never before, have the fundamental importance of understanding that in the world, only consolidated states and the ability to defend their national interests, to take a decent place in the world are primarily determined by the consolidation of all political, social and state powers around the national interests of Ukraine, to which we call you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u7	Thank you. Netecka gives the word of Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Please, Alexander Ivanovich, faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Catherine Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The world situation in the 21st century and especially in the current year has not changed for the better. Conflicts spread across continents, creating new challenges for nations and their ability to defend themselves. Powerful collisions, terrorism, and access to high technology call into question the effectiveness of armed forces designed to resolve long - term armed conflicts. Ukraine's geopolitical location, its non-blocking, its participation in peace-supporting operations, its peacekeeping operations require radical reform and the modernization of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In addition, the reform of the Armed Forces should coincide with the time and implementation of other reforms in the State in the administrative, judicial, economic, social, and educational, health, and so forth. Therefore, the definition of principles, directions, priorities and reform measures of the Armed Forces should be carried out systematically. An important factor in the need for reform is the dangerous state of the armed forces ’ resilience and their willingness to respond to modern challenges. For a long time, the state did not pay enough attention to solving urgent problems, and funding was limited. The 2012 State Budget project does not allow a powerful start to reform and modernize the army and the fleet, which challenges the achievement of the final result. Following the demands of the President of Ukraine in addressing the Ukrainian people, the faction of the Party of Regions insists on predicting cost of defence of 1.35 percent of gross domestic product. An additional resource of 2 billion 731 million has been received: the development of military equipment, the training of the Armed Forces, and the maintenance of the Armed Forces. Increase exploration spending by 133 million dollars. A portion of the special fund’s expenditure is proposed to provide for an increase in the financing of housing and the provision of money for military personnel. Under these conditions, the adoption of proposals by the faction of the Party of the Regions can ensure that real reform takes place.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u9	Thank you. Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u10	Catherine Vasuk, faction of the People's Party, Volin. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I would like to raise a few painful questions today before the day of the government's social policy issue in Ukraine, which I have brought up with the citizens' reception in Volina. Youth housing and shelter for young professionals, including teachers and doctors, are extremely painful. I think this problem is characteristic of every region, and it's particularly painful. Here's the citizens' address. "I, the speedman of Inna Volodymyr, the teacher, and the husband of the teacher, and the two adult children who are working too. As an educated person, my family had not been given an apartment in Lutsk for that time, and my family had become “Affordable Housing. ” We're going to report that 170 families are on Volina. We're bringing to your attention that the situation on October 24th of this year is at the expense of the Youth Housing Fund, and that's where the "Available Housing" line is passed this year. Now for the second question. Kabminu’s decree requires that schoolchildren be given credit for housing purchases of less than 3 percent of the year’s age. [[No. 364 of April 6, 2011]] But as we've been told in this fund, no bracelet has been received until now, and for that reason no one gets anything or even hope for such a home." Second question, housing for orphans. Today, there are about 100,000 orphans in Ukraine, there are about 2,000 in Volina, especially in Volina, about 400 children who have nowhere to go, leaving boarding schools and leaving orphanages. I think when we adopt the budget, especially the government, we need to set up housing for orphans and involve rich businessmen, regions, charities in partnership so that they can actually have Parenthood for these children of parents. I want these problems raised to be questions until tomorrow of the government from our faction of the People's Party in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u11	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine, to prepare Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u12	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues! I want to draw attention to, without exaggerating, the whole of Ukraine's affair and perhaps the largest in the modern history of Ukraine, this unique and resonant journalistic investigation into the newspaper "Express", which sparked the criminal nest, which is centered on adventurers, fraudsters, pseudologist Andri Slissarczuk. In advance, I would like you to consider my statement to the Attorney-General, the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Bureau and the Administration of the President of Ukraine. For 20 years, an apherist, a pseudologist, has been working in Ukraine, killing, maiming Ukrainian citizens. This whole story of this unique affair was caused by the very activity of this man, who has not a medical education, as he claimed, but a common PTU in the Burditch of the Žitomir region. [[Two higher medical institutions: Vinnicki and Moscow Medical Institutes]] The man’s activities are surrounded by psychotropic drugs. Until recently, the care of this pseudoprofessor has been clearly monitored by the law enforcement authorities of Lviv. To identify yourself as an adventurer as not strange to say, and joined Minister of Education Dmitri Tobacco. These are the questions the newspaper Express asks the minister and all of us. "Minister of Education Dmitry Tobacco signed a letter on a form of the Ministry saying that Sluzarczuk had a kind of basic higher education, but no one found out to have verified that fact. The Advisory Commission of the Ministry of Education and Science assigned a fraud to a man without a higher education, a professor of neurosurgery. [[Head – Dmitri Tobacco]] The president of the Ministry of Education and Science has awarded an undisciplined apherist who degrades people, the highest national education award." So today there is an opportunity, taking into account only this fact, to release the Tobacco from office. And once again, this is my question to the heads of law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u13	Mikola Tomenko, non-factional. He will be followed by Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u14	My fellow Members, I would like to express immediately the words of solidarity from the BUT faction, in particular, and the opposition in general to those MPs from the Party of the Regions that have now come under the press of power, and, in particular, you know, the National Deputy of the Party of the Regions, Basil Hara, said that in Ukraine, the political repression of the 37th year was restored. I would like to state that the BUT and opposition will protect all people, including members of the Party of Regions, from the press and criminal acts of power. Just as we will work together and protect those MPs of the Kharkiv District Council from the Party of Regions that were under the walls of the Supreme Council yesterday, and today under the walls of the Cabinet of Ministers are protecting the interests of the Chernobyls. As you can see, people who don't accept politics are expanding, and especially are actively involved in the MP Corps of the Party of Regions. But the teachers I met in Cherkas, Poltava district asked me to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education, who are still discussing this fantastic Third All-Ukrainian Education Association, which was held in secret, and every person there was interviewed so that God wouldn't let her say anything wrong. But what the teachers heard at the convention exceeded all expectations. The classic said, "they're terribly distant from the people," that our authority would say that they're vastly and terribly far away from the people. If they believe that a teacher in Ukraine gets two thousand and 530 dollars, I apologize, they insult these people. If they believe that we have three thousand directors today, they are wrong. If they believe that teachers today, as the Prime Minister has said, are raising bad guys, they don't respect these teachers. The bad guys are sitting elsewhere, the bad guys who are preparing the Prime Minister's papers on unrealistic wages and the bad guys who make teachers take vacations at their own expense because they can't pay them the thousand, the one and a half they really get, that's where the bad guys are trapped. I talked to the teachers who are shocked and talking about the unprepared schools by summer, where coals are still unscheduled. I've been to those rural schools where it's impossible to meet because they're still not burning. And Azarov will report that our teachers eat and receive a large salary. On behalf of BUTU, on behalf of the opposition today, I would like to thank the teachers and especially the rural teachers, who are both parents and educators today, and the organizers of artistic activity, and the sports organizers, everything is on them today. And if the authorities and local officials were working for the teachers, we would be living in another country. So you have a low bow and thanks for the opposition that honors our Ukrainian teachers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u15	Olga Bodnar, BUT faction prepare for Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u16	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable TV and Radio Watchers! I'm sorry we don't have much of a freedom of speech, and you can't see what's going on behind the walls of Parliament in Kiev right now, how many people are there, how many are there. I don't know who else is there. But at the same time, the consequences are that when we decide how we give our voice and realize our constitutional rights, our electoral constitutional rights, we probably don't really understand how important this is for our future. Today, Ukraine is being manipulated into a proportionally major electoral system. Even though the Supreme Council has five drafts that propose different electoral systems, with open lists, with a proportional system, all understand that the draft will be supported by the one who will be submitted by the authorities. Especially cynical is the way in which authority initiates consideration of the matter. For almost a year, a working group created by the President of Ukraine wrote a draft Law on Elections of People's Deputies, which was put forward for public discussion and concluded by the Venice Commission. Suddenly, representatives of the majority were presented with another bill, almost identical to the draft working group, but with money that paves the way for the distortion of national will and the rise of corruption. In this regard, she expressed her concern about the vast majority of committee hearings that had taken place on Monday, October 31, to discuss draft laws on the election of national deputies. The head of the Directorate-General for Constitutional and Legal Modernization of the Presidential Administration of Stavniczuk also made a statement about the unconstitutionality of a number of provisions of the bill. First of all, they are not in line with the Constitution of Ukraine's legislation on granting candidates the right to vote in parliamentary elections immediately in the multi-mandatory and single-mandatory districts, depriving voters who vote outside Ukraine of their right to vote, different terms of election and registration for candidates in multi-mandatory and single-mandatory constituencies. In addition, the project provides for the possibility of de-registration of candidates in major districts after two warnings have been issued by the electoral commission. It is not difficult to predict which candidates will be removed from the race. The legislators did not take into account the recommendations and comments of the Venice Commission on the draft bill prepared by the working group. First of all, we're talking about the inadmissibility of changing the electoral system to the next elections from proportional to proportional. This does not correspond primarily to the code of good practice in election rights. If you want to change the election system, you can change it, but not for the next election. The absence of clear criteria and deadlines for defining the boundaries of the constituencies when the majority system is introduced in such a case, the authorities will be able to access the so-called electoral geography, which will certainly affect the results of the elections in the one-maned districts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u17	Thank you. Mishchenko gives the word Prokopchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u18	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The political repression of the Yanukovic authorities against the leaders of the opposition: Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, and other members of the cabinet of Ministers Timoshenko are turning into political repression against their own Ukrainian people. These included teachers who were carefully dispossessed by the authorities at assemblies that did not inform anyone of what was being done in places where both Ukrainian and Ukrainian schools were closed. When medical institutions are closed under the form of reform, when both education and medicine are destroyed, and now they are taking the lead in eliminating the Chernobyl disaster. The government of Yanukovic has not put any money into this budget on their social security. And that's why they went out on the street, went out against the Supreme Council and went out against the Cabinet of Ministers. In contrast, their leaders claim that 450 national deputies voted in favour of these laws. I am responsible for this: the opposition, namely, the Yulia Block of Tymoshenko, is the "Fatherland" party and those who are our opposition colleagues, for this anti-national, anti-social law, have not voted and will never vote. And at the request of the meeting, I will read the address signed yesterday by representatives of the areas, the liquidators, and the Chernobyl disaster. "Government officials! You're conducting anti-national politics -- you're not implementing Ukrainian laws, you're violating article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 6 of the International Convention. Our demands are those of those who stand near the walls of the Supreme Council: remove Law 9127 on the judgment of the European Court of Justice and give us a normal life for both the liquidators and the victims and their children. This law violates the Constitution of Ukraine and is an essential right of liquidators and victims. We demand that it be removed immediately. That's why we're making a clear statement again, and we want you to step aside and cancel the previous decision that was made in the first reading." Glory to Ukraine! And by order, I'm handing over this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u19	Yes, please, we have the next Cassinuk, the faction of the Party of the Regions, he's asking to pass the word to Maxim Lutsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to inform my colleague about the All - Ukrainian Association of Education Workers. Because Mikola Volodymyrovich only commented on what was written on the Internet, and as it really was, he had to come and see. So 10 years after the previous convention, much has changed in the educational sphere. Thus, its relevance was dictated by the time and urgency of the adoption of the national strategy and the development of education by 2021. More than three hundred different measures are under discussion as a result of the convention. Some 5,000 amendments and comments were made and taken into account. The strategy was designed by the country’s best experts. As a result, the draft document received a very positive assessment from the Education Directorate of the Council of Europe. We predict that the adoption of a national strategy will be an impetus for the bold and concrete steps of our country in the pursuit of the goal of extra-school, school, and higher education. The primary education program, the continuous process of socializing children and monitoring the quality of education. An important component of the National Strategy project by 2021 is higher education. And the fundamental prerequisite for its formation is certainly the adoption of a new edition of the Higher Education Act. And in this sense, without the support of the parliamentary majority, we don't need to. We have to give life together to this reform, which depends on the future of education. Finally, millions of Ukrainians are born and are still born. Delegates from the Third All-Ukrainian Congress endorsed the decision to recommend approval of the draft National Education Strategy for Ukraine for 2012-2021 and the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. Ask the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovich, to submit a draft law to be considered prime minister. The educational resolution, in particular, refers to the inadmissibility of the politicalization of the educational process and the introduction of negative forms of political struggle into the educational environment. So they came to us, MPs, asking them to hear them, not to scream at the political slogans I was just talking about. I offer to listen to the authority of teachers and teachers and to support them in improving the educational field of the country. I want to say that I was personally present at the convention. He was in a normal working environment. Many important questions were discussed. The students appreciated Catherine Semenovna Samojlik, secretary of our committee, and the atmosphere was generally working. All that was written on the Internet does not respond to 10 percent of what was actually happening at the convention. So the convention went well. And what we accepted at the convention will be put into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u21	Replica, please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I would be very happy to present the position, the opinion of experts, experts and my own as a person who analyzes the situation in the education market in the humanitarian sphere, but no one invited me. Just as it was not invited by the authorities who were involved in the issue of education, so it was not invited by the authorities. I, for example, fully agree with the position of the Rector of our Institute of Technology, Michael Zgurowski, who said that he did not see and hint at a real education that would be consistent with European standards, Ukrainian values of the education system, because to rewrite the history manual, where it was meant to be, it was not education, and it was not a reform of education. Or taking down the rectors who are wrong and putting up their own is not a reform of education. So once again, I think that mysterious gatherings that are held exclusively by their people to support a minister or someone else are not gatherings that unite the educational community. I am convinced that the authorities should organize, as always, not in institutions, but in the Palace of Ukraine, to gather the best experts and listen to experts, not to teach teachers how to teach children. You run the government, and listen to the teachers, the rectors, and they'll tell you how to reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u23	Yes, the speeches are over. Two factions, "BUT" and "Our Ukraine," filed for recess, but they're ready to announce the speech. Please give the word to Yatzenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u24	The people of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Azarov made a statement on Friday that he was proud of the principle of the Russian side in the negotiations with Ukraine. And I am ashamed that there is a prime minister in Ukraine who is proud of a foreign country who is not fighting for Ukraine, who is not fighting for its national interests and who is doing nothing to make Ukraine a strong country. After that, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine said yesterday that Ukraine was moving to Russian natural gas bills in Russian rubles. This is the first step towards the transition of Ukraine to the full protectorate of the Russian Federation. Going to Russian roubles means only one thing. You don't have to join the Customs Union anymore. It's actually a monetary union. And the Russian National Bank will control all of Ukraine's calculations, including natural gas. Ukraine refused to join a negotiating group between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the accession of the Russian Federation to the World Trade Organization. Refusing to participate in this group means refusing Ukraine’s economic requirements to Russia. That is, we cannot sell our goods to Russia. We can't get a new contract with the Russian Federation. We can't get rid of a whole bunch of imported items. In view of that, first. We demand that the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, along with the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, report to Parliament, who gave them the right to change the Ukrainian bracelet to Russian ruble? If they want to change their calculations, let them transfer Russian gas bills to the Ukrainian national currency. It's in the bracelet. The other one. We demand that Ukraine immediately join the working group on Russia’s entry into the WTO and put forth its clear demands to protect Ukraine’s national interests. First. A gas contract. The other one. Unbound access of Ukrainian goods to the Russian market. Third. Remove all trade restrictions. And for the rest. After Azarov's statement about the principle of the Russian side, I think he has the only way out today. By not giving up, as they say, from the register to write an application for resignation and get out of the government as they are unable to do anything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the list of issues that you are invited to consider at the meeting today, you have. So let's move on to its implementation. We have the first section on ratification. There is a question about the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on cooperation in the defence sphere. [[Registration number 0221]] There'll be no objection if the procedure is shortened? I'm voting on this proposal. Please be supportive. [[10:37:16]] For 197 Offer supported. First Deputy Defence Minister Možarowski Volodymir Mikolajovich will report, please, for 2 minutes. Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u26	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on defence cooperation was signed in Kiev on September 15, last year, in accordance with the agreement of the Presidents of Ukraine and Brazil. The provisions of the agreement provide for cooperation in joint interstate projects and programmes aimed at manufacturing armored equipment, air defence systems, airplanes, and more. There is also the provision of training and training for military professionals in various specialities, which are now in line with the defenses. Special attention is paid to the fields of scientific research and development that may be of interest to both sides. Under the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, the treaty is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Ministry of Defence is working on an appropriate draft of the Ukrainian law, which has been given to you for consideration. In our opinion, honourable national deputies, it is important to take into account the fact that the ratification of this agreement is being considered in the light of a recent visit by the President of Ukraine, the Chief Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to the Federal Republic of Brazil, during which six bilateral documents, including the Agreement on Military and Technical Cooperation, have been signed. The ratification of this agreement once again confirms that Ukraine is seriously set up to deepen its mutual cooperation with Brazil. The implementation of the law does not require additional financial costs. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its foreign affairs meeting on October 19, this year, held a position on the need to ratify the agreement. Therefore, I would like to ask for the support of the people's deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u27	Thank you. Please. Billorus Oleg Grigorovich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u28	The honourable presiding, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting has considered the draft law of Ukraine on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on cooperation in the defence field. The adoption of this law is based on an objective requirement for the implementation of internal procedures, which is a prerequisite for the effectiveness of the agreement in Ukraine, establishes the legal framework for relations between the two states in an important area of cooperation – in the field of defence, including manufacturing aspects, and joint arrangements for mutual military visits, exchange of military personnel, instructors and students, experience and information in the field of military training. The main scientific and expert management has some comments on the need to grant an agreement of duty to Ukraine by ratifying the Supreme Council. The Budget Committee of the Supreme Council reports that the above-mentioned bill does not require additional budgetary, financial, material costs. All budget expenditures will be made within the budget provided for in the State budget of the Ministry of Defence. The Supreme Council Committee on Rules of Procedure believes that the bill is in line with the requirements of articles 90, 92 of the Supreme Council Rules. The Committee of the Supreme Council on National Security and Defence proposes to take a decision on the ratification of the above-mentioned agreement, taking into account the findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u29	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u30	Taking into account all the factors, conditions and aspects, the Committee on Foreign Affairs recommends that the Supreme Council ratify the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u31	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Sign up and pass on the word to Carmazin. Yes, Karpuk, will you give it back?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u32	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u33	Yes, come on, Knyazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u34	Thank you, Mr. Carpuk. The point is that we generally support this kind of ratification, but we are surprised by the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, which is expressed as remarks to this bill. And I don't think we can get past her, because she's good enough. The point is that, in the case of Ukraine and Brazil, if one of the provisions of the respective agreement is said to be harmful to any third country, if the joint actions of the Two-State Armed Forces in the case of Ukraine and Brazil are to be done in any third country, the same amount of damage is to be done by two countries, i.e., on an equal footing, regardless of which one of the countries has suffered greater harm. At the same time, this clearly contradicts article 11.66 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which states that in the case of such things occurring under Ukraine’s international treaties, compensation takes place on the part of the person who caused them, that is, the party whose army specifically damaged them. And so Minust points out that, in accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, in this case, it would be necessary to amend the Civil Code at the same time as the ratification of the document, and specifically article 11.66 for the implementation of this agreement. And according to the same Law on International Contracts and Ratification, and the adoption of amendments should be considered simultaneously and voted in the Hall. However, according to the Ministry of Justice, such documents had not been filed, and it therefore strongly denied the introduction of the document at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why we can't get past this kind of thing, like me, without proper comments. If the warnings are withdrawn and this position is somehow agreed upon, that's one thing. If not, I feel that Minniest is right, and we need to stand in that position to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u35	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u36	Thank you. Masterful colleagues! Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'm not going to repeat what the previous colleagues said from both the rostrum and the venue. I just wanted to point out the following. The need for Ukraine’s consent to be bound by an international treaty is based on the need to ratify the Treaty’s approach to liability for damage is different from the one provided for by the Ukrainian legislation of the previous colleague. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that if article 5, paragraph 4, of the Treaty actually establishes a party's shared responsibility in the event of joint actions affecting a third party, for example, in the course of teaching or other joint action, I would like to point out that the possibility of taking such a responsibility, i.e. a solidarity, is also foreseen by the current legislation of Ukraine. Yes, according to article 541 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, a duty of solidarity or a requirement of solidarity arise in cases established by a treaty or law, particularly in the event of an object of obligation. Furthermore, article 1190 of the Ukrainian Civil Code establishes that persons who have been harmed by acts of joint action or omission have a solid responsibility to the victims. The only nuance is that if we're here. We will ratify and maintain this agreement, then this damage will be compensated, not by persons, but by the parties. Since article 541 of the Civil Code explicitly states that a treaty is established, that is. The deal is a contract, I ask you to support it. Thank you. A faction of regions will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u37	Yuri Litwin. Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u38	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! With regard to the content of this Treaty, the faction of the People’s Party has no reservations. Nicely spelled. And what's more, everyone understands, well, who's interested in the corresponding problem that Brazil is on the rise today, it's going to be one of the four most rapidly developing countries. They talk less, they work more, and they develop very quickly. BRAIN is so - called, and growth rates, including the quality of the defense sphere in Brazil, are improving and increasing rapidly enough. Thus, Ukraine is likely to benefit from a country such as Brazil, including in the defense field. And not just because there are such articles here, but I'm saying that the mutual visits of senior officials to civilian and military institutions, I think that's not the basic thing, but the main thing is exchange of students, but the main thing is application and development of defence programs and projects, but the main thing is cooperation related to military supplies and defence services. So a whole series of positions are something that is convenient to apply to Ukraine. But I want to stress that, obviously, Ruslan Knazevitch is right -- I wanted to talk about it -- but I'm going to say it more harshly because I've raised this question more than once. Dear colleagues, Mr. First Deputy Minister! Adam Ivanovich, I can't turn to them: they're talking. Dear First Deputy Minister, when a bill is being drafted by the government and you are the initiator of the development, we need to look at the Act in force on Ukraine's International Contracts. There's a perfectly clear norm, that's what the colleague said. If a change in Ukrainian legislation is foreseen together with ratification, these amendments to other laws are passed simultaneously and are voted on simultaneously. You're in "Explanatory Note" and you're saying in the last paragraph that since the definition of paragraph 4.5. approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u39	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u40	For the damage caused, it is different from the one foreseen in Ukraine’s legislation. Dear Mr. First Deputy Minister, you determine what you have not done. It's a bad practice, it's just a bad practice. One more moment. If there is agreement and if there is a need for ratification of the consent of ministries and authorities, these consents should be given to me. I have all the ratification papers. I don't see any agreement. I understand that these are procedural moments, someone might say that they are not basic, I want to say again: in a meaningful way ratification is beneficial for Ukraine, but, well, we have to follow procedure, but we have to be more serious about everything. We're going to vote for her, but this is the third time I've said this: stick to the current Law on Ukraine's International Contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u41	Yeah, yeah, no, no, no. Carmazine, one minute from me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u42	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. I just wanted to address you as chairman, and to the Head of the Supreme Council for what Mr. Zarubinski had just said and, by the way, attention was paid to this and to Ruslan Knazevich. But I would like to point out right now that, in general, we should have come to one conclusion in connection with the study of this document that, on the basis of part three of article 12 of the International Agreement Approval Act, which, by the way, was signed a year before the visit, a historic visit, of course, by President Yanukovic, was to take place by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We are now taking upon ourselves the insurmountable powers of our own, Adam Ivanovich, which I would like to stress. This is contrary to the Law of Rules and Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u43	No, you were positively mentioned. You're not going to praise yourself. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. There have been fair reprimands here, but I think it's better for the Supreme Council to do this, not the Cabinet of Ministers, Yuri Anatoliyovich. I am voting on the approval of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on cooperation in the defence sphere. [[Registration number 0221]] Please vote. [[10:51:44]] For 313 Even Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin voted. The deal's ratified. The draft Law on Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 155 of 1981 on Safety and Health and the Production Environment is under consideration. [[Registration number 0225]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[10:52:22]] For 215 Offer supported. Reported by Dunas Stepan Vasilovich, deputy head of the State Mining and Industrial Security Service. Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u44	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Bill on Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 155 of 1981 on Safety and Health at Work and the Productive Environment developed by the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs pursuant to the Plan of Action for the Implementation of the General Agreement 2010-2012, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 30 March 2011 and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovič. The need to ratify this convention is due to Ukraine’s desire to comply consistently with its obligations to create safe and safe working conditions, and this once again shows that Ukraine, like the entire world community, is ensuring the highest priority for human life. The Convention provides for the development, implementation and periodic review of all social partners, national security policies, occupational hygiene, and the environment. The aim of the policy is to prevent accidents and harm the health of workers, minimizing the risks posed by their work and the constitutional right of workers to protect their lives and health during their work. The ratification of the convention does not require significant changes in Ukraine's legislation and budget spending, but it does provide for increased responsibility for both employers and workers for violations of labour law. The bill agrees with all concerned executive authorities and social partners without any comments and is supported by the High Council Committees on Foreign Affairs, Social Policy, Health and European Integration. It is also in line with the conclusion of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 155 on Safety, Health and Productive Environment of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u45	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u46	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u47	Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u48	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The consideration of this issue is evidence that the Government of Ukraine needs to pay particular attention to the submission of draft laws on ratification of international agreements. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the International Labour Organization Convention No. 155 dates back to 1981. It took Ukraine 30 years to bring this standard into force. When most of the countries that are members of the International Labour Organization have long introduced and used this productive convention. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention and recommends it unanimously before the adoption of the Supreme Council. We believe that the ratification of the convention will bring the respective functions and responsibilities of government authorities, employers, manufacturing workers and other persons with regard to safety and health at work and the manufacturing environment closer to European and international standards, as well as enhance Ukraine’s image on the international scene. Ratification of the convention does not require additional material and other costs, including the cost of the state budget. The main scientific and expert office believes that ratification will allow international standards of safety and health to be introduced into national legislation. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u49	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u50	Please support the committee's recommendation decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u51	Is there a need to discuss? Let's sign up. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u52	Turn on the microphone? Yeah, it's on. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Of course, if Ukraine were to finally signify that it was moving only towards the European Union, this law would have to be passed literally not today, but yesterday immediately. Because he's at the level of legislation, I emphasize, at the level of legislation, of course, what does he suggest? European standards and labour protections first. But we are well aware that the ratification of this agreement, the adoption of this law, will certainly not improve the situation in our mining industry tomorrow. It's the same Princess, it's also the Creature Pool, it's both Zaporozhye and others, because it's primarily about them. Still, there is a tremendous benefit to this. Because we are part of a system of European values for the protection of work. And we know what old technologies we have, what huge losses we have, let's say, on the same mines, literally, every month brings us these sad messages about the tragedies and disasters in our mines. One day John Plush and I went down into the Australian mine in the mid-1990s, and then we went down to ours when we returned to Ukraine. Believe me, I don't want to say that the Australian mine is an earthly paradise. But these are two completely opposite worlds, the opposite of the working conditions of these people. Because of this, we vote in favour of ratifying this bill, we need it, let it fit into Ukrainian legislation and improve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u53	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u54	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We will support the bill on the ratification of the international agreement on the ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 155 on occupational safety and hygiene and the manufacturing environment. And of course, the late 30 - year adoption of this convention is quite a number of subjective and objective reasons. Because the demands of European legislation on occupational hygiene and industrial safety in Ukraine, especially during the capital accumulation period, were very often ignored by business owners. And every million tons of coal mining in Ukraine is 2-3 deaths of miners. At about this level, there is mortality in the agricultural complex, agriculture. We were proud that we had recently opened the Olympic Stadium, but few know that seven workers were killed. Daily media entrapment is the death of people in a business. Thus, the adoption of such legislation is of considerable importance. And if you look at the articles, it is envisioned by the rules of the rules, the national principle of this policy. There's a way. A set of measures at the national level, at the enterprise level. And what's important is that people know what's being done for it in our country. Article 11 provides for an annual report, annual information on what has been done at the level of national legislation, at the level of the complex in national action, and specifically in enterprises for the protection of the lives of workers. It's a pretty big convention. We'll support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u55	Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u56	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. A respected chairman, respected colleagues, agrees with the positive thinking of his predecessors. The only thing I think is that we have to join one or the other conventions not only by considering and by arguing that this is the case in other countries, even the main ones. I think that's not the main argument, but how important it is for Ukraine itself. For Ukraine itself, this is very important. Because just like in Ukraine, the very low share of wages in the value of a unit of production or a unit of self-sustainability, just as little means, all of this is well known, little money goes to the insurance of employers, injury insurance and the terrible catastrophes that we see with you and unfortunately we see. And that's why such a complex document as this convention must certainly be ratified. But I would like to draw attention to a particular position that not everyone is talking about. Now, if we ratify this convention, there will be a significant increase in the responsibility not only to ensure that the job is provided by the employer who belongs, but also that it will be dangerous for the employee to be employed as long as the job is in danger. I'll be able to read it. This is in article 19 of the convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u57	Secured, yes. That's right, Vladimir Grigorovich. And this is the quintension of this convention. Listen. The employee without delay tells his immediate supervisor of any situation he has sufficient reason to believe is a direct and serious danger to his life or health, until the employer has taken measures to remedy it, if necessary, the employer cannot require that the workers return to the working situation in the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u58	Finish up. This is the second time you've drawn. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u59	when there is a direct and serious danger to life or health. It's a key rule. The key rule for employers is that they have no right to force a person to work in a secure place. So I think this convention is very positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u60	Thank you. Dry, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, we have recently ratified the European Social Charter in this room, which has made a number of commitments regarding normal, safe working conditions. The other one. We're ratifying today, I'm sure, we're ratifying the sixth International Labour Organization Convention. That is, Ukraine gradually, but steadily aligns its social legislation with European Union legislation. Third. We have recently had parliamentary hearings here, and we have learned that injury in Ukraine is not diminishing why? Because there is an increase in occupational diseases. So the problem is not so much the ratification, it's not as much the accession to European legislation as it is in control of our decisions here in the session room. And the last. Regarding the remark made by Zarubinsky’s colleague You see, these issues are clearly regulated by the Labour Code. That's why I'm talking to government officials. Determined by the Labour Code. He needs to be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u62	Yes, please, Chernobyl, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Well, first of all. Our expert group of our MPs has clearly been identified. We support this ratification. It's really focused on the needs of a worker to protect a worker, to provide him with safe working conditions. But there are two warnings that do not apply to this vote, which concerns, first, the nuance that the positions that are in these conventions in these ILO conventions, in particular the ones at which Oleg Zarubinski stressed, are generally not implemented in Ukraine. [[We'll vote and we'll call everyone]] So let's actually imagine how it's going to work out, how it's going to go with the worker who's going to demand that the standards that are in this convention be met. This should be emphasized -- the implementation of those treaties, the laws that are there. And second moment. That's a note to the Cabinet of Ministers. As we analyzed the bill, we drew attention to the inadequacy of the explanatory note. It feels like she's from another contract, another condition. Because it's all about European documents, in an explanatory note.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u64	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u65	The agreement is the ILO Treaty, so the request to the Cabinet of Ministers is more relevant to the accompanying documents. The document please be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u66	Vladimir Leschenko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u67	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Of course, the Communist faction will support the draft Law on Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention on Safety and Health and the Production Environment, but we need to consider the following. 1981 and now, there was a powerful industrial base developed by the agricultural sector. Now we're looking at the level of production organization: the endurance of the core funds no longer withstands any criticism that's safe there. This was mentioned in the report on whether it is signed for the benefit of workers or not, whether it is the role of trade unions, or whether collective agreements are signed. And we also need to take into account the impersonation of the owners of the enterprises in relation to our workers. And one more thing. How our international obligations are fulfilled. The Social Charter and the Charter of Local Self - Rule were also mentioned. So that we don't embarrass ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u68	Active discussion of the subject has been completed. All factions spoke. I am voting on the proposal to support the International Labour Organization Convention Convention No. 155 of 1981 on Safety and Health and the Production Environment Act. Please vote. [[11:08:55]] For 298 The law is passed. We are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Appendices to the Documents, based on the results of the First Joint Inspection of the State Codon Line between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary, conducted between 1997 and 2003. [[Registration number 0226]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:09:36]] For 222 Offer supported. Reported to the first deputy head of the State Foreign Service Administration, Šišolín Pavel Anatoliyovich. Prepare Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, the need for the adoption of this law is due to the need for the approval of the addenda of the documents that were drawn up as a result of the First Joint Inspection of the State Border Line between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary. The check was carried out by the Ukrainian-Hungarian Border Commission between 1997 and 2003 in accordance with the agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary on the regime of the Ukrainian-Hungarian state border. This review was ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Parliament of the Republic of Hungary in November 2003. In the years that followed, natural changes in the river areas of the state border, particularly washed the banks, by the Ukrainian-Hungarian Border Commission in accordance with its authority, resulted in the transfer of nine border signs to a safe distance with a view to preserving them. In doing so, I'm going to report that the line of passage of the state border has not changed. As a result of the transshipment of the border signs, new protocols of the border signs have been compiled and changes have been made to the list of coordinates to be ratified. The implementation of the measures envisaged in the draft law does not require additional funding from the State budget. Please support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u70	Thank you. Head of the Committee on European Integration, Boris Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, the Committee on European Integration has considered the bill 0226 at its meeting on 18 October and has decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a whole. According to the committee, the bill does not conflict with Ukraine's international obligations and must be supported. I will point out that the European Integration Committee's decision is supported by the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office. This positive decision has also been taken by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and National Security and Defence. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u72	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Vote? Please sign up. He's stoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Taras Cnerwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u74	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u75	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! I wouldn't ask you to say just for one small detail, to take away the problem that many of our colleagues have that when they hear something about the state border, they think we should give something to someone. The agreement or amendments to the agreement do not change the line of the state border. It's as clear as it's been, and it's as clearly fixed on topographical maps on the Tis River, and it's going through the same line. The fact is that an integral part of the State border agreement between Ukraine and Hungary is the same clear coordinates for the location of the border columns, which in the case of a water border are located at a slight distance from the coast along the two banks of the corresponding Ukrainian and Hungarian rivers. Since the river regularly washes the shores without changing the line of the state border, it has to carry the data to the poles. Since this is an integral part of this agreement and any changes to this agreement need to be ratified, this ratification applies only to completely technical nuances, no change in the border, no loss of territorial or profit in this case. We are carrying out our technical but prescribed Constitution, the International Contracts Act, the mission. Therefore, both on behalf of our parliamentary group and on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I ask you to support the bill and ratify it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u76	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u77	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The first joint inspection of the state border line between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary took place between 1997 and 2003. This was done in accordance with the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary. the regime of the Ukrainian-Hungarian State Border for cooperation and mutual assistance from border issues since 19 May 1995, which was ratified on 22 July. November 1995. However, after this inspection, respected colleagues have made new changes. Especially since 2003. As a result of these changes, the Ukrainian-Hungarian Commission has carried out 9 overseas signs, and I want to point out that 5 of them were Hungarian and 4 were Ukrainian, to a dangerous distance. As noted, the state border has not changed. We just have to list the coordinates where these border columns are now. The document referred to in the draft is subject to ratification in accordance with article 9, section 2 (a), of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts as applicable to state borders. A party of regions will speak for and ask for everyone's support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u78	Yuri Litwin. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u79	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Our faction will unanimously support this bill, and in addition to what the colleagues have said, I would like to point out that this is exactly the example where the initiators of the bill are absolutely right. On the one hand, it was said that these are technical moments. Well, you know, when it comes to the state border, any moment is not technical, it's extremely principled. And that. That the state border line is not changing, but that the position of the foreign swaps is actually changing – it is also an integral part of this attention that each state has to pay to the state border. But in this case, I would like to note positively that it was initiated in accordance with the Law on Ukraine's International Contracts, which is exactly the ratification of this agreement by Parliament. So we have to support this, just as obviously we will support it when appropriate observations are made by the central executive authority responsible for the state border in other areas of the border. Right? Because there are natural things when these signs need to be moved. But we have to ratify it in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u80	Ruslan Knyazevich gives the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u81	I'd like to give Arjevitina a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u82	Respectful national MPs, indeed, do not particularly touch on issues of concern. And the transshipment of the signs is, in fact, the result of the destructive power of floods. But the very fact of the ratification of the agreements between the Republic of Hungary and Ukraine is a good message, especially for the Carpathians, for former ethnic fighting, for the funnels, for the rumbles, that lived in nine countries of the world at different times. And by the way, each of these countries has established or pursued their national policies in part of the state’s borders, as they wanted. Here are some examples: As a result of the 1919 Saint-Jeremen Treaty, nearly 250 Ukrainian Carpathians found themselves in the territory of Purgatory. Nearly two dozen Ukrainian Carpathian villages found themselves in Romania. I think it's very symbolic today that it's the 2nd of November that we're considering this agreement, because on November 2, 1938, the occupied part of the Carpathian Empire, then the Subcarpathian Ukraine, and Uzhgrad, Mukachevo and Beregovovo went to Hungary, and the capital was transferred to Hust. But this historical fact needs to be kept in mind that almost 20 percent of the Hungarian population now live in Carpathian territory, and this is a good benefit to improve the Hungarian-Ukrainian relationship on Zacarpathia. I think it's a good messenger, what this Ukrainian-Hungarian commission is doing, and it's only the first stage, the first ratification, the work will continue, it's a good signal, and it's to improve the investment climate at Zakarpatta. So, of course, the deal has to be ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u83	Thank you. Discussion. Yes, please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I'd like to support this document, but I want to pay attention to two positions. They relate to the fact that usually such a document is right when it is prepared. ICC and the President's Secretariat. And I think that when we work together in this part of the world, we should pay attention to a number of problems that arise in our relationship and seek a parallel solution. The first problem is the activation of funding and joint projects of the European Union for the Carpathian Region project, because our neighbours and Hungary, and Slovakia, and the Czech Republic are active here, Ukraine is lagging behind and we would have to be more active, and the ICC in the part that we would have to engage more actively in environmental and other projects of the European Union. And the second problem, which is less optimistic, is that I've repeatedly called attention to the fact that the PNB and the BNP and the MNF are somehow closing our eyes that we have too much activity and Hungary and some of our other neighbouring countries in the area of dual citizenship. So we would have to be more consistent here and realize that this is a complicated story. Rather, we will find ourselves in interstate agreements of visa-free entry and exit, normal conditions for people who work or travel there, rather than creating such a double - act mine. I would ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to pay attention to this, and I think it is worth it, history with dual citizenship deserves a special meeting of the National Security and Defence Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u85	Question completed. I put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Appendices to the Documents, based on the results of the First Joint Inspection of the State Border Line between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary, conducted between 1997 and 2003. [[Registration number 0226]] Please be supportive. [[11:21:48]] For 303 The law is passed. Thank you. We are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Estonia in the field of social security. [[Registration number 0227]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:22:18]] For 213 Offer supported. First Deputy Minister of Social Policy Vasil Ivanovich Nadraga will report. Get ready, Kurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u86	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Estonia in the area of social security was signed on 5 October 2010 with the aim of improving the valid contractual and legal base in the area of social security for citizens of both States. This was due to significant changes in Ukrainian and Estonian social security legislation since the signing of the Treaty between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on social security cooperation since February 20, 1997. The new agreement will regulate, firstly, payments under Ukraine’s mandatory state insurance for industrial accidents, occupational illness and death for these reasons, unemployment, pensions in accordance with the legislation on compulsory state pension insurance, funeral assistance; secondly, payments under Ukraine’s legislation on State assistance to families with children regarding the birth of a child and the care of a child before reaching the age of three. [[or]] The adoption of the bill will allow for the implementation of the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the agreement. In the course of interfaith agreement, the bill was supported by all interested ministries and departments. The adoption of the bill and the conclusion of the agreement will enhance the social protection of the citizens of both States and increase cooperation between the competent authorities and the institutions of Ukraine and the Republic of Estonia in the area of social security. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u87	Thank you. The committee is the deputy head of the European Integration Committee, Stepan Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, a contract made on October 5, 2010, in Tallinn, aimed at developing cooperation in the area of social security for persons in need of legislation on State pension insurance, unemployment assistance, burial, social insurance against accidents at work and occupational diseases, assistance to families relating to the birth of a child and care for a child until it reaches its three - year - old age age. Individuals who live in one party’s territory will be granted the same rights and social security in accordance with that party’s legislation, and they will have the same responsibilities as the nationals of that party. The Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration discussed at its meeting a draft law on the ratification of this agreement and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u89	Thank you. Please sign up. Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u90	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Since the signing of the previous international treaty with the Republic of Estonia, Ukraine has been mentioned for more than 13 years. Of course, during this time both our society and society as a whole have become more open to the international community. And there have been questions about improving the valid legal framework, because the situation is out of place. There is a need for such an interstate agreement. It's quite obvious, because it's not just about the exchange of guarantees in the area of pension insurance, it's also about some other areas of social protection. So the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this document. We think it's a step in the right direction so that citizens, let's say, who came from Estonia to Ukraine or from Ukraine to Estonia, don't feel like they're citizens, so to speak, of a second kind, so that they have appropriate, equal rights with the local population. So this is moving in the right direction, and the faction of the UK Company will support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u91	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that from 1999 to 2003 in Ukraine, implementing the Law on the Fundamentals of Stately Compulsory Social Insurance, has been adopted at the legislative level and four social insurance funds have been developed in the same way as in Estonia. But there is one unpleasant situation for Ukraine. A colleague told us just when our citizen arrived in Estonia to make him feel at home. It will feel bad because there is no fifth type of compulsory government social health insurance in Ukraine. And he will receive medical care in Estonia as a third-class person, not as a European citizen who has the same insurance policy as Estonians. Therefore, we should speed up the process, the procedures for the adoption of the fifth species, and complete the entire cycle of compulsory State social insurance. Because without a fifth type of health care, you are well aware that health care is more acute today than ever before. Moreover, in the subsistence minimum of that year 2000 we did not place a figure on the increase of the road to medicine and paid medical care, which is actually but not yet legally constituted. So I can see why I took the floor. It will take some time for us to rewrote this agreement, to re-sign it when it appears in Ukraine, I am convinced that common sense will prevail, that some governments will take responsibility and maintain our proposals for the creation of the National Deputys of Ukraine at the legislative level, the establishment of a National Social Insurance Fund. Otherwise, the Ukrainian social security system is incomplete, and this needs to be stopped. Therefore, this treaty must be ratified, the ratification should be supported, bearing in mind that we have a huge problem with the fifth type of compulsory state social insurance, medical insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u93	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, should we ratify or not? Of course you do. The second question. Why it took the government a year, I remind you, on October 5, 2010, the Treaty was signed in Tallinn. Why did it take a year? To get through the park, which is now full of autosaves! Mr. Mogilov, have a conscience. You're driving. Remove the autosaves, you put them right in front of the government. Your president has to go public today and say, "What are you going to do?" Never before has the government of Ukraine intimidated citizens with autosacks that were displayed directly in the park near the Supreme Council and the government. It's embarrassing, fellow MPs! It's very embarrassing. I agree with my colleague Jaroslav Suhi, who said that in Estonia our man would feel like a third-class man. In Ukraine, does a person feel that way compared to an oligarch? This is your political power, leading Viktor Fedorovich to power, promised the minimum pension of a thousand 200 dollars in 2011. And what you're suggesting is that you don't offer it in 2012. That's exactly what you're doing right now, managing, has cut by 40 percent the cost of disposable material assistance to disabled and non-working people. As a result, respectable ones will not feel like a third - class person when opposition comes to power in Ukraine. And this has to be ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u95	Yuri Litwin passes it on to Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u96	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Well, as for the last sensation, when a person is not a third class, but a different one, obviously a class, well, that's the impression that all amnesia and no one remembers that was 5 years old, 10 years old, 15. Apparently, 10 years ago in 1998, or in 1998, when the pension was not paid for the whole year, the person was of a different class. Well, let us not forget to suffer, and now in this heat of populism I will remain just a person of common sense. As far as this agreement is concerned, since it is aimed at social protection for the people, for the protection of our citizens who have gone to Estonia, our faction will vote unanimously in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u97	Chernobyl, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u98	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, our panel of experts has decided unanimously to support the ratification of this agreement, but I would like to stay here on two of the issues that concern us. First, this is well - described by Jaroslav Suhi. For our MP group, this is also a very important moment for us to bring our Ukrainian domestic legislation to the level that when we are on an international level, our citizens will not feel damaged. The second point I want to point out. It's a good thing that we're on the road right now and we've got a ratification of the deal with Estonia. I'm reminding you again of the agreement with Portugal. Every week, when ratifications take place, we raise questions about the social agreement with Portugal. Finally, I received confirmation from the Cabinet of Ministers, which was transmitted from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the work text of this agreement to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and some disturbances took place. I am calling on the Cabinet of Ministers on behalf of our MP group to expedite the procedure. Because there are the same people who also deserve social protection. Thank you for your attention. Please support the deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u99	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Estonia in the area of social security. Registration number 0227. Please vote. [[11:34:22]] For 295 The deal's ratified. Dear colleagues, in view of the need for production, we must now consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of individual issues of foaming for the late payment of housing and utility services and the activities of contractors/producers of such services. [[Registration number 9054]] There is a proposal to consider a bill with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:35:13]] For 215 Supported. A bill by the Ukrainian national deputy, Serbin Yuri Sergiyovich, will be reported. But where was Serbin, where was he? All right, well, let's get started. Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Sergey Maybeard is present? Oh, there's a Serb. Please, Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! This is our own majority who blame the opposition on the fact that we don't make any constructive laws. That many of our laws do not receive the support of scientific or legal administration. Here's an example, from my point of view and from our point of view, of opposition to a constructive law that aims to improve the situation in the LHC and our people. The Law consists of two parts. The first part. We don't have two hundred and seventy thousand people in statistics who don't get a salary right now, that's over 1 billion dollars. And at the same time, we charge them a penny for not paying the tariffs. A person who sees himself falling into a debt pit generally stops paying the tariffs. That's the law that's going in this area in two directions. The first is that a person should pay the tariffs. That's the first one. And the second is that the LHC or the LHC companies get real money, because when the debt is hopeless, it just doesn't pay. That's the first question. And the mechanism is proposed to develop the Cabinet of Ministers, although the mechanism is very simple. If a person has brought help to the LHC, it is enough for a person not to receive a salary to avoid a penny. And the second question is also the issue of LHC and the reform of the LHC. We haven't spent the second year in a row on reforming this program. And we keep talking about how we need to increase energy efficiency, encourage people who work with these issues. So it starts with the energy savings from the employee who works in this company that uses energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u101	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u102	What's proposed. If the enterprise has actually saved on energy efficiency, it is confirmed by the city’s authority that there is really no claim on it, that they perform all the obligations under contracts with residents, then 50 percent of the economy is directed to pay. As we know, we have a salary now in the LHC of only 50 percent of the country's average wage. The scientific expertise supported this law, I repeat, supported two committees, right, our committee, the second time I looked at it, it divided six into six. You must decide whether or not to uphold the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u103	Thank you, Yuri Sergiyovich. Mybeard Sergei, head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u104	Dear fellow MPs, the bill was considered by the Committee on 21 September this year. The Chief Research and Expert Office noted minor comments and expressed the view that the bill could be adopted as a basis. The Committee on Budget Affairs concluded that the implementation of the bill would have an indirect impact on the spending of the State budget. The views of the Committee were divided, i.e., equally, by six votes in favour and “no”. I mean, the Committee's decision was not taken. In the light of what has been stated, and with the agreement of the Chairman of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Litvina, the Committee submits the draft law for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for decision. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u105	Thank you. Please sign up. Please, Kamchatny Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u106	Please pass the word to your colleague, Zadirko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u107	You're an ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u108	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the Reforms for the Future faction will support Bill 9054, because it gives the consumer the right not to pay his pension for untimely housing and utility services, but only if there is a debt to the consumer from payment of wages, pensions, scholarships or other monetary payments that depend on his ability to pay. Of course, in order to avoid abuse, the consumer must provide appropriate documentary evidence of his temporary insolvency, and then the foam for the late payment of the services of the LHC will not be counted. We, of course, count our parliamentary group that this is a good legislative initiative, we will support it. What is more, today we realize that the debt owed to employees with each month is unfortunately increasing. So it's a social law, and of course we'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u109	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u110	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. I would like to give the floor to the Communist faction colleague Eugenia Wolintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u111	Eugene Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u112	Eugeny Wolynec, Communist faction, Schachtersk, Donetsk region. Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The essence of this bill is very important at this stage, our faction will naturally support it. But I would like to say that, in its time, a broader bill, broader and more objective, was drafted and submitted to Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko, where there was not only a question of a penny that was in fact worth a lot more, but also the payment of the services themselves, due to the fact that salaries, scholarships and the same social benefits were not paid. As for the fact that we had a dispute on the committee, how do we determine whether a person pays or does not pay, i.e. whether he has a debt or not? I would like to remind you that at one time such a process has taken place in the middle-end of the 1990s, in coal enterprises, when six months' wages have not been paid, and somewhere around a year there have been these moments when you could get a certificate that you really don't get paid and come on the basis of this certificate. In fact, you weren't taken off, nor were you charged, nor were you taken off, let's say, money. The faction of the Ukrainian Compatriot will therefore clearly vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u113	Yes, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Of course, supporting today’s overwhelming majority of this project will be a kind of test that you have to pass on to maturity for not being responsible for society. Strange, paradoxical situation: For 6 months the Donetsk metro builders did not receive a salary, had debts, or had transporters in Kharkiv. And they are obliged to pay for the foam. I'm not saying that's the foam today. The government of professionals has already accumulated almost one and a half billion wages. And forbidden. You can't see the exact number! Because statistical authorities are not allowed to speak and display true figures. That's the question. This calls for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u115	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u116	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". We will support this bill. And I want to agree with the previous statement that this is a kind of test. Because yesterday they tried to run a bill in this session room on non-payment of debt by heating companies, and that was to be extended over a period of five years. At the same time, people should pay the penalty for debt for water consumption, electricity, and so on. Despite efforts by the authorities to date, the debt of wages is nearly $1.3 billion. First of all, they're budgetary institutions. And first of all, they're miners. At the same time, if you look in the regions, the level of debt for energy, for water, is the largest in Donetsk, Lugansk, Dnipropetrovsk, Kharkiv, Kyiv. So this is really going to be a test for how it takes care of the inhabitants of those regions and how it promises to improve life today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u117	Question completed. I am betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the Amendment Act to certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the settlement of individual issues of foaming for the late payment of housing and utility services and the activities of performers/producers of such services. [[Registration number 9054]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:46:06]] For-140. Not supported. For the faction, please. Regional Party – 7, BUT – 63, “Our Ukraine – 26, Communists – 25, “Reforms for the Future” – 18, “The People’s Party” – did not vote, “Afterfaction” – 1. Maybe one more time? I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[11:46:45.]] For-136 Not supported, bill rejected. Please, Checheov Mikhailo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Request to include two bills in the agenda: Bill 9326 and 9292. [[author - Kozub]] [[author – National Deputy Tolstenko]] 9326 is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on energy-potential work; and 9292 is a draft law amending the Ukraine Nadra Code. [[author - Kozub]] [[author - People's MP Tolstenko]] [[on the use of total property rentals and concessionaires]] Request to be placed in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, we've been reviewing the bill, they haven't been supported. There's an offer: get back to that question. Who wants to go back to the question of the inclusion in the agenda of Bills 9326, 9292 and 9360, please vote. [[11:48:16]] For 223 We're not back. The factions, please. Regional Party – 165, BUT – 0, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 2, Communists – 19, “Reforms for the Future” – 9, National Party – 20, “Afterfaction” – 8. Didn't the cards work? Who's in charge of coming back? Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please find out now. The question is being considered, and the question is being answered. You scream very quietly, I can't hear you in the street. You can't be heard on the street. Do you have a higher education? Did you get a diploma like that? [[B in m in s a l in]] There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 9002]] How do we view it? Is it full? Please. Reports Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich, please. The drafter proposes a reduction, please vote. [[11:49:59]] For-164 Offer supported. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich Pavlovski. Prepare Baran.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u120	Andrey Pavlovski, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland. Respectable fellow countrymen, the size of social standards in our country, are artificially and severely underestimated. According to official data from the Ministry of Social Policy, the actual subsistence minimum per person in the consumer prices of July this year amounted to a thousand 98 dollars, and the draft budget proposed by the government of Azarov proposed only a thousand 17 dollars on January 1. Compared to a significant increase in food prices, social services for rising social standards are pitiful and are determined by outdated methods. For example, during the period of need, a Ukrainian citizen has a minimum of 250 grams of potatoes, 100 grams of bread, 10 grams of pasta, 5 grams of Greek, 5 grams of sala and 25 grams of sausage. And what do you have to say about clothes? You're only allowed to buy once a few years. We'd try to live with Janukovich and Azarov for the experiment, and we'd look at them. And compare this to $170,000 a day spent on the State Budget to keep Janukovic and his family. Therefore, the faction with the aim of forcing the authorities to implement Yanukovic's pre-election promises, as well as the "Fatherhood" faction, as well as with the aim of restoring Ukrainian purchasing power, proposes to adopt a bill setting a minimum of 1,494, a minimum wage of 15,576, and a minimum pension of 1,254, corresponding to Yanukovic's promises to make a minimum pension of more than 1,200 dollars. And so I propose to adopt these bills that will allow at least a little support to ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u121	Done? Please, from the Budget Committee. Shpak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u122	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Budget Committee at its meeting considered the draft bill and determined that the bill had an impact on the expenditure of the budget, increasing it by 39 billion dollars, without the author proposing a source of additional expenditure for the State budget. The Ministry of Finance considers the adoption of the bill to be inappropriate, resulting from the insecure implementation of the bill by real financial resources. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the bill should be rejected. Therefore, the Committee on Budget Affairs decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill number 9002 to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u123	Thank you. Let's sign up for the performance. Alexandrovska Alla, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, the topic is very topical, the subject is mundane, and the faction of communists will certainly support this proposal. Both this year and last year, and in the past, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Timoshenko and all previous Governments have always said the same thing: we cannot raise social standards, including a subsistence minimum, because there is no money. But in fact, we have money, and the Communist faction talked about it when we were considering the state budget next year. Because it is necessary to effectively establish a subsistence minimum when a draft State Budget Act is approved. I wish to say that, unfortunately, the decision of the Timoshenko Government has not been implemented, which has already approached the need to revise the consumer basket. It was on the composition of the goods and services in the basket that the establishment of real prices and needs at the time depended on the establishment of a real subsistence minimum. The Government of Timoshenko has not done so. It's not too late to do it today, it's gotta do it. This was to be done in the first reading of the State Budget Act. This needs to be done today, because we will be considering the State Budget Act next year, and we can set a realistic minimum of living, and we must do so. Because this depends on both the minimum wage and the social standards financed by the State budget. Therefore, once again, the Communists insist on reviewing this indicator, increasing the living minimum, raising the minimum wage, the minimum pension, because these figures do not really meet what the Ukrainian law requires, do not fit in with real life, and this is exactly what makes Ukrainian citizens into poverty. The Communist faction requires the adoption of this law on first reading and the adoption of these indicators as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u125	Stoyan Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u126	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, do you know why the authority of the Supreme Council is steadily falling? I think I've worn cynicism and hypocrites. The MP was in power -- he said one thing, the deputy went into opposition -- says the other. I mean myself. I was once in opposition, and this bill was passed by a colleague of Papiev. And on the committee, when we listened to him, I was impressed by the rain. It's the same bill, the same motives. What's more, colleagues, I'll remind you, then we said, let me try Yushchenko and Timoshenko, then Yushchenko and Yehanurov live for 106 grams of bread a day. By that time we had called the number of captured Germans who were in captivity during the Great Homeland War, they had several times as many, such as meat and the like. What's the problem? The minimum wage of 2000 is no one’s pleasure now. The collection, the consumer basket that colleague Alexandrovska was talking about, does not meet the biological needs at all. This bill, we should thank Pavlovsky for bringing it. Our government should immediately go back to looking at what was stopped in 2005. And in 2005, the Council of Experts and trade unions came together to produce a new set of consumer baskets, where there was both pay and pay and medical treatment, and a constantly galloping roadside drug. Therefore, it is vital that we examine it. But in the same way that it's called with specific numbers, and you could vote for it, in one case, if the author called the source, where it came from. And I'm asking you very much, colleagues, all with higher education, don't confuse the money to keep the equipment or the admin, the cash-free money and the real living money that's being deprived of the mass, it's leading to hyperinflation. So today, this bill, it has to be given due, it awakens the opinion of our officials. But it has to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u128	I continue to hold meetings before the conclusion of this consideration. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u129	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I feel like I'm in the theater of absurdity. And perhaps this is how the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be renamed. Obviously, this will help to remove both the fence at the Supreme Council and everything else. Just write, "Theatrics of Nonsense." It says, "Bloodbed for bloodsuckers," and it'll be clear. The power changes, and the bloodstains remain. Yes, there was the Popeyeva bill. Yes, there was a Suhigo bill. Yes, he was the leader of the Stoyan trade unions. Yeah, he's heading Hara now. But you've seen somewhere that, in accordance with the Ukrainian Labour Pay Act, I remind you, there is this article 10, the size of the minimum wage that we set with regard to the proposals made through the negotiations of representatives of trade unions, owners, authorized authorities, citizens' associations and so on? You didn't see it. Now you're going to show them where they're going to be, and you're going to put them right across the street from where they're rallying. You've figured it out before, you're going to Europe with seven steps. Because of this, I will now continue to defend President Viktor Yanukovic's initiatives. So he said, the minimum pension of a thousand 200 dollars in 2011, how is that different from Pavlovsky? Pavlovsky, you're not a good man. You're only increasing 54 bracelets, and our president has promised to do so since 1 January 2011. Count inflation — 9 percent. You're not a good man. I'm criticizing you. I had to write 100 more. As a result, the bill should be adopted, taking into account exactly what the budget is. And I want to tell the guys from the bloodsucker government, well, I have to answer for what I'm saying. You promised.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u130	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u131	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland, Reforms and Order. Dear friends, let's think about what world we live in -- real or not real. Nowhere in the world is there such a situation that the untaxed minimum, which we have about 17 dollars, is so low. Doesn't it seem like it's long overdue to come to what should be an untaxed minimum cost of living? He can't be taxed, because if he's taxed, then he doesn't reach the minimum he needs to survive. This is the first position. Or could it not correspond to the minimum living size of a minimum pension or a minimum wage if they do not provide for a person’s living? So, methodologically, we live in a society that produces these beggars, who produce people who cannot survive in a normal way, and that pushes us to crime, to acquire some assets illegally, and so forth. If we talk about what we have today from what's happening, we have billions of housing repairs, we have billions of Euros that could cover businessmen who would come to Ukraine and invest their money. We're already funding some kind of mythical Olympics, which will be in the '20s, who knows who's going to live on this earth at the time, and there's already funding. It buys 500 autos instead of buying a few thousand ambulances for the village, as was done by the government of Yulia Timoshenko, for which it is now being tried. Autozaks are probably more needed as quickly as possible. I think it's necessary to finance the prosecutor's office and other organs, like it's scheduled for today, rather than providing living to the minimum people at a decent level. Hence, today’s authorities have lied, continued to lie, and were deceiving themselves in this situation, so they must leave. This is no way to rule the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u132	Chaplin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u133	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, honourable national MPs, on behalf of the MP's Reform for the Future Group, I am authorized to state that, in principle, we would support this bill, because those who rise up in it are indeed right, indeed, every Ukrainian citizen deserves respect and raise social standards. However, with good intentions, there is bad legislative practice, as four laws in force are being violated immediately. Well, even if we don't pay attention to it and not pay attention to the fact that the subsistence minimum has not been reviewed in the last 10 years, even among those who are introducing this bill to the hall today, I would like to pay attention. Where, then, are the marauders who will vote in favour of this bill and of the minority who have passed this law today? The previous ballots show that there are no votes in the room even in the Timoshenko Block, with high regard for him. So I don't think it's as easy to throw as a bone, this bill, but not vote for it. We won't vote for him in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u134	Yeah, the other factions that didn't show up don't insist? Please, Pavlovsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I would like to respond to the adoption in 2009 of a law on raising social standards, living minimum, minimum wage. But you forget that it was a time when the world was facing a terrible financial crisis, and the government of Yulia Timoshenko did not once ask you to work together and compromise. Instead, you forcefully passed that bill. And now that the government is saying that the economy is growing, you don't want to raise people a little bit of the same social standards. And by the way, I support Mr. Carmazin. And you can go over the second reading of this bill and pick up from a thousand 200 dollars, as you would have to, at least a thousand 108 dollars. Because real inflation, as you say, is officially government, more than 10 percent. And there's money! Save it for Euro-2012, half the money you're stealing from! And that's 115 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u136	Alexander Stoyan, line, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! Of course, you have to look at the minimum of living. I mean, one more time. In 2005, the government of Timoshenko was given a minimum of living. But this government didn't look at it, and what's more, it frozen the payments to teachers, doctors for 2009, frozen the pension of 498 dollars, and today it's almost 800 dollars. There is a difference, and there is no need to say that nothing is done! I'm going to point out that Timoshenko's government had a minimum wage of 70 percent to the minimum of living per employee, and in 2012, for the first time in years of independence, the minimum wage would correspond to the minimum wage. So you don't have to say you're not doing anything. What's more, I'm going to say that the unions, together with employers and the government, have finally developed a set of livelihoods for this year. And I also, like my colleague Suhi, insist that the current government approve the new subsistence minimum and that all the social parameters be calculated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u138	The discussion is over, dear colleagues. I'm voting on the author's proposal, because it's the conclusion of the committee, and the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to reject the bill. The author proposes to support the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 9002]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:07:02]] For 106 Factions: Region Party 2, BUT 53, Our Ukraine 21, Communists 25, Reforms 3, The People's Party didn't vote, non-fractional 2. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u139	Dear Adam Ivanovich, perhaps what I said at the time in Ukrainian, people didn't understand, somehow they didn't understand, I want to ask again in Russian to go back to Laws 9326, 9292 and once again ask the hall to put them in order of the day, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u140	Okay. There was another offer. Let's end with 9002. The proposal was to send the subject of the legislative initiative bill number 9002 for further work. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:08:08]] For-79 Even less. Unfortunately, the bill has been rejected. Dear colleagues. I'm gonna call it a night. This is Mikhailo Vasilovich, who is absolutely right, that I made a mistake, that I called not two bills, but three. I'm sorry. Who's in favour of returning to the Bills of 9326 and 9292, please vote. [[12:08:50]] For 243 We're back. I would like to vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to carry out energy-potential work. [[Registration number 9326]] Please vote. [[12:09:21]] For 259. The price of a question of 259 votes. A proposal for a daily draft amendment to the Ukraine Nadra Code is put to the vote. [[on the use of total property rentals and concessionaires]] [[Registration number 9292]] Please vote. For 215. Not turned on. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the session room, we'll continue our sessions. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the provision of social security for citizens]] [[Registration number 9006]] The author of the bill is Andrew Pavlovski. Short cut? There's a short cut. Please be supportive. [[12:41:13]] For-153 Offer supported. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich. Get ready for Spak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u142	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished colleagues, deputies! Your attention is drawn to a bill that relates to the previous one that we have considered. It is proposed to make appropriate changes to the State budget for this year with regard to the provision of social security for our citizens. In particular, it is proposed to increase the living minimum, the minimum wage, the minimum pension, and the indexation of student and student scholarships according to the People's Money Income Index Act to the level of real inflation in our country. The aim of the bill is to raise the basic social standards to compensate for the negative effects of the oligarchy regime. Today’s authorities have repeatedly promised to improve our lives today, but on a real scale the decline in the standard of living in the population, the decline in purchasing power, caused by an increase in food intake, in utilities. And it beats, first of all, the most vulnerable socially vulnerable: pensioners, disabled people, students who cannot even provide themselves with the necessities of life. So it's suggested that they be indexed, these incomes, to the level of real inflation. For food, this inflation accounted for more than 40 percent. The compatriots! The anti - national policy of the government of Azaroff is just indignation. And in order to break this moment of national outrage, Janukovich left Timoshenko, Lucenka for playing. Require the adoption of social laws and exemptions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u143	From the Committee on Budget Affairs is Vasil Fedorovich Špak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u144	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered the proposed bill 9006 and determined that the bill had an impact on the expenditure of the budget, increasing it by 40 billion dollars in the current year. The authors did not offer additional costs to the State budget. The Ministry of Finance does not consider the adoption of the bill to be appropriate. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the bill should be rejected. The Committee on Budgetary Questions decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u145	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Please, George Prokopchuk, BUT faction. Get ready, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u146	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland." You know, there's been a lot of charges against the previous government that didn't do something, did something, but, excuse me, when a citizen of Ukraine today has the right to buy only 106 grams of bread, 25 grams of meat products, 5.5 grams of pasta and so on, I'll remind you that in the fascist concentration camps there was a standard of 200 grams of bread -- that's what today's government for Yanukovich's government led the country to. And they don't forget to blame Timoshenko all the time, who gave money to people who didn't insult the Chernobyl liquidators or other categories, they didn't take away social security and benefits. So this bill needs to be supported in order to really level the situation. Because soon the Ukrainian people will live on reservations, and someone will be staying on golden toilets in the princely rule of Midian. So please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u147	Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u148	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Please pass the word to Andrew Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u149	Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Julius Timoshenko" – "The Fatherland". I propose to support this socially important bill. At least by the end of this year, let's raise the social standards a little bit for our citizens, primarily socially vulnerable, at least to the level of real inflation so that they can survive somehow. Because the norms that my colleague was talking about, well, it's impossible for 100 grams of bread to survive on a single person's day or 5 grams of hall. Well, let them try Janukovich, Azarov, if they force ordinary citizens to live like this, let them feed themselves. That's why I'm offering to support him. On the other hand, they keep asking, "Where do you get the money?" That's how I tell the authorities, and other citizens know where. Look at the Euro-2012 projects. More than 115 billion dollars were spent from the State Budget. And they're asking for another 7 and a half billion dollars next year. Half this money is stolen and shipped to Cyprus, in offshore areas! And where are the foreign investments that promised to do so in the Euro-2012? You don't? So maybe we'll have a football championship in Cyprus? Because there are hotels and roads that are better, and they steal, and that's where they take the money. That's why money is, you don't have to blur people's eyes. All we have to do is have the will and desire of the current oligarchy regime of Yanukovich to look where the money is and to take it. Return them from offshore areas, invest in your own businesses, and increase your wages for your own employees in your own businesses. And the money will be. All you have to do is have good will and desire, and Janukovic has to make his oligarchs be socially responsible, then everything will be and you have to cut down on your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u150	Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u151	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, is considered an extremely important question for our common people. But we realize that this year the issue will probably not be resolved. And you'd need a legislative initiative from the government, it's not there. Because a real government is the same as any other government. He's got one answer for all of his suggestions: no money. And so the communist proposals on this issue have always been broken down by the deaf wall of indifference on the part of both the bourgeois governments and the national deputies of Ukraine from the bourgeoisie, which, in the Supreme Council, is now more than 90 percent. During a parliamentary debate on the Ukrainian National Budget Bill 2012, the Communist faction submitted its proposals to the budget committee: to review the structure of the consumer basket to determine the minimum of living because it had not been reviewed for ten years, to ensure that the laws concerning veterans of the Great War and the work, children of war, other low-income categories of citizens were implemented, to provide for the cost of the lost savings of our citizens. There were also specific proposals for taking money, strategic industries and businesses back to the state, the state monopoly on external economic activity, liquor, tobacco -- also for the state monopoly, the set of taxes on luxury, the progressive scale of taxation, to bring wages out of the shadows. All of this has been ignored by both the budget committee and the bourgeoisies, who, contrary to the interests of their voters, voted in favour of the draft State Budget Act in the first reading. The Communists are outraged by such unconscionable acts of the MPs. Therefore, we turn to the electorate: look carefully at who is voting against you and use this in 2012 in the elections. And the bill needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u152	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u153	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm reading the agenda on Wednesday, formed by the opposition, and I'm thinking, what do you call the day of Parliament's work on the environment? And I think a better name than I'm going to say is not: Wednesday is a day of populism, demagogs, and fairytales. Well, you know, fairy tales are good for kids. They learn well, there are fantasies so good and so forth. But when adults try to tell fairy tales to 46 million people, it's called "tasting on the ears." You can't call it anything else. You see, by our populism and demagogies over the years, we have created a state's insanely hanging debt to people under laws that have been passed in such a imaginative, demagogic populism regime and that cannot be paid today, and we are trying to think of something else. So I would like to address all the people's deputies, well, let's draw the line, and let's start not thinking about our future elections, not about how one of us is going to get into Parliament. Well, let's think about the country. To that end, we must pursue the pragmatic, rigid and true policies pursued by the President today. On the one hand, we are building a normal relationship with Russia, the CIS. We will decide and sign a free trade treaty with Europe, with the European Union, which will allow for dividends. But most importantly, our policy must be based on rigid pragmatism. And the strongest cement is true. In truth, we can raise the economy and the country, and in lie and populism, we are only destroying it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u154	Question completed. I put to the vote a proposal by the author of the adoption bill on the basis of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2011. [[on the provision of social security for citizens]] [[Registration number 9006]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:53:28]] For-103 The factions. The Party of the Regions did not vote, BUT 54, Our Ukraine 20, Communists 25, Reforms 1, The People's Party did not vote, non-fractional 3. The bill was rejected. The question is: the draft Act amending the Act on Shareholder Associations of Ukraine, registration number 905. [[on how to use the income of a shareholder company]] The author of the bill is Andrew Pavlovski. Short cut? There's a short cut. Please be sure. [[12:54:19]] For-195 Offer supported. Please. Prepare the Voropeyeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u155	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! And this bill, which touches on the interests of almost 13 million people, the owners of the simple shares that they've been given in the course of voucher privatization, will also call the oligarch authorities populist. By the way, what does populism in Latin mean? It means "national." So, as the populists say, and the oligarchs still say, it's an honor for the opposition. Friends, most of these 13 million people have never received a penny. And those units they got, they're lousy dividends. Meanwhile, the indivisible profits of those who own controlling stocks that block shares in stock companies are usually the oligarches, the owners of large enterprises, who seem to share in representational purposes, using shadow schemes, royalty and others to take them out to Cyprus in offshore, and ordinary citizens do not get a penny out of those shares that they got at the beginning of independence. Thus, the Act on Shareholders allows the majority shareholders to exercise the right to decide in general congregations where and how to make dividends and allow them to avoid making a decision to pay dividends, which is in direct contravention of article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that the State guarantees the protection of the rights of all property subjects and ensures the social orientation of the economy. It's about this social orientation of the economy that our "creatures," the oligarchs of today's government are somehow trying to forget all the time. I therefore propose to support this bill, which protects the interests of ordinary citizens, simple shareholders of 13 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u156	He will report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u157	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The bill was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy and was recommended by a unanimous decision to send it for further work. By the way, the same decision was taken by the Chief Expert Office. And here's the reason. Unfortunately, he's not populist, as you said, and he's, unfortunately, lobbyist. Why? I'll explain. It protects the interests of not 13 million Ukrainian citizens who own less than 1 per cent of the shares, and it protects the interests of only one specific group of shareholders whose shares will be less than 100 per cent in general, who own between 25 per cent and 50 per cent in the country. That's the first reason. Second reason. He, the bill, contrary to all the law, changed the principle of voting on all other matters, and that was rightly pointed out by the Chief Expert Office. That's the second reason. And the third. In your explanatory note, you wrote that the reason for the non-payment of dividends is that money is withdrawn from the enterprise by other rules, by other principles. And that's really what it is in Ukraine. And that's what we have to deal with. That's the right thing to do. But this issue, which you have referred to in your bill, does not solve this problem. And in no way prevents them from getting their money out. For this reason, it invites our committee in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to send its work back.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u158	Let's sign up for the performance. Please, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u159	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Please pass the word to Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u160	Please, Bondarenko Volodymir. After him, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u161	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends, in my own time, I turned to the Constitutional Court, representing the interests of hundreds of people's deputies -- that was two summonses ago. When there was a tendency to blur small particles in stockholder societies, actually to deceive people, to throw them out into the street, by blurring them out, which was that the emissions were being carried out, and actually those small particles were disappearing. At that time, I wrote in my own reasoning something that might still be relevant today. The point is that the minority shareholders are now scattered, they are not united, they have their own little interest, and they cannot act in a blocked way as do those who have large portions. And so it was suggested that there was a fairly fair thing that was in the economies of individual countries or there would be stages of privatization. This is when a minority has the right to claim the sale of its shares and a major shareholder who has more than 50 percent of the obligation to buy them. At the same time, the price is set justly as the share of the total shareholding company’s asset. So the total asset is calculated in a calm way, this fraction is some kind of money term, and that major shareholder, as we say today, is an oligarch, should buy all the parts, if there's such a request, up to 0.5 percent immediately, up to 1 percent per year, 2 percent in 2 years, 3 in 3 and so on. Thus, it would be fair in relation to people who in their own time were simply deceived in the course of the so-called voucher privatization. I want to tell you that I'm not counting on this power to do this because its interests here are represented by fairly serious lawyers who serve the main oligarchs. And it certainly surprises them, as it is, ordinary people to give some money from their huge pie that they are working for Cyprus today or on other offshores. So I said how it could be, but if it were, you'd see, right after the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u162	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, I am truly impressed by the fact that the author wants to protect the minority shareholders. And by the way, we should also remember that the state is also a minority shareholder in many, in many cases when we should also protect it. And it's a big truth that in our country today there is actually no culture, no corporate culture of governance. We do not have general principles when the stronger one cares for and protects the weaker one. It's a big truth that we have that minority shareholders are actually removed from any management, actually removed from getting any dividends on their shares or on their pies, that's also a big truth. They don't get tens of years. But does this legislative initiative provide an answer? And I would say no. Why? Because this one sentence makes two fundamental mistakes. Well, first of all, it's not shareholders who vote, it's stockholders who own stocks, it's shareholders who vote shares. If it's legal, you have to write it like this. I don't agree that we have to write down 100 percent in the law. It's an economic activity, there may be different cases here, it should be determined by really the people who run and run these processes. Conclusion. If we want the bill to be legalized, we can send it to the second reading and replace the shares with the number of shareholders that own it. If we really want to essentially protect minority shareholders, maybe the author needs to think about protecting them through privileged shares. So the shares at which the price is fixed. Of course, that's not quite right in terms of big democracy. But given that we don't have a corporate culture, maybe that's the best way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u164	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u165	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Well, I'm going to go back to the first line of the previous speech, when I called today, it's Wednesday, it's a populism, demagogs, and fairy tales. But Yuri Nikolaevich raised the curtain a little higher and it turns out we can add another word. It's lobby day. After all, the beautiful slogans that we defend the interests of 13 million shareholders are a narrow group and far from poor people! Twenty-five percent of the shares! They're millionaires! 30 percent of the shares, millionaires! And if you lift the curtain even higher, it becomes clear. Let's go to the election. But if your stockholders, the millionaires with 30 percent of the shares, are funding your campaign for the election of the future, you say so! This will be understandable and true. But don't confuse your interests with the interests of the whole country. It's not on his head! Therefore, I propose that, in conclusion, we take the scissors and, in voting, cut off the corporate ears that are sticking out of this law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u166	One minute, Caplienne.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u167	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Thank you, Your Honor. I was given the right to express our position on behalf of the MP's Reform for the Future. You know, well, really, so far there's a problem with minority shareholders in Ukraine. The problem of failure by the chieftains who currently hold most of them in the general congregations and in the distribution of profits over the past year is indeed squeezing. There really are some faults. But in our opinion, this bill does not clean up all the flaws. And even from the fact that by raising only 15 percent of the total number of shares owned by specific owners in order to seem to stop this process, the question will not be solved. I'm going to remind you that 41 articles of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations regulate the minimum quorum, which is equal to 60 percent today. So we think we need to go more radically if we're going to solve things essentially. For example, commit to the law and the minimum amount of income that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u168	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt, in the first reading, the Act amending the Act on Shareholder Associations on how to use the income of a shareholder society. [[Registration number 9005]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:06:35]] For-63 The bill was rejected. We are discussing the draft Decision on 100th anniversary of the birth of the outstanding Ukrainian writer, the Laureate of the National Award for the Name Taras Shevchenk Tsupi Ivan Antonović. [[Registration number 8768]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. [[13:07:12]] For 197 Offer supported. The author of the bill, Paul Mokchan, is not. The spokesman is the head of the Yavorovski Committee, Vladimir Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u169	The silence was blown away, so I'll report it. John Tsupa’s name is not generally so popularly known, it is quite understandable. It was a proseic, well, let's say there, not the first one, there, a row like Olesis Potter, Paul Zagreb and so on, but it was such a work, I'd call it, a writer. The most interesting thing about his fate is that he was also a working-Celian correspondent, and he was an activist, and he went through all these classes, which were written by a number of books, novels, the most outstanding, from my point of view, and not just mine, because he won the Shevchenk Prize -- "Through the thorns to the stars." This novel -- an epic thing -- about the family of the Kotsubinskis, you know, you probably know, about Mikhail Kotsubinsky, the great Ukrainian writer, the European, as it were, the scribbling with a very thin letter, the thin net, and his son Jurk, who went after the Bolsheviks at that time, was later shot for it all. He described it all, but he described it, in fact, on a documentary basis. But it's kind of artistic. Curious John Antonovich Tsupa and that when we were in the spring of 2004, when a group of writers held their convention on the street, because we refused to give room anywhere and wanted to crush the Writer’s Society then, I would not call their names. This 90-year-old man, who was barely walking around the country, came here to be seen because he was the oldest writer in Ukraine. In fact, he lived a very long and difficult life. And I'll also say that the continuation of his case is here in the Supreme Council of his sons, working on our "Council" television company. This celebration has already begun. In the Society of Writers happened yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u170	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u171	The evening dedicated to his memory is already celebrated by Poltavian. I'm asking you to back me up. Only, Adam Ivanovich, should be taken off, there's an evaluation word for "excellent." We never write "mighty," "not outstanding" in the rulings. National Prize laureate, Ukrainian writer. Then it'll all be literate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u172	Vladimir Aleksandrovich, we'll make a decision about you if they don't write what's remarkable, what do you say? Shall we discuss it? No, it's not. I put to the vote the proposal to accept as a basis and as a whole the Order on the 100th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian writer, the Laureate of the National Award for the Name Taras Shevchenk Zupi Ivan Antonovich. I'd like to make up my mind. [[1:10:42]] For-99 I think Vladimir Aleksandrovitch gave this number of votes. Yeah. The decision is not supported. Right now we should be looking at a draft decree on the non-admission of biased and selective justice in criminal proceedings against Lucenka U.V. and Timoshenko J.V. However, the national MP, the author of the Yatsenuk Legislative Initiative, asks that the hearing be postponed in connection with the fact that he is now taking part in the session of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. Therefore, the question is being considered. We're looking at the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Living Minimum on Consumer Basket Formation. [[Bill registration numbers 9016 and 9016-1]] The authors of the bill are Royal and Pavlovski. Short cut? I'm putting this motion to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:11:58]] For-191 Supported. Please, Natalia Yuriovna. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u173	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I propose to your attention the draft Act amending the Law on Living Minimum on the Construction of a Consumer basket. [[No9016]] The purpose of this bill is to change the principles of consumer basket formation, i.e. I would like to propose a revision and expansion of the consumer basket. Under the current law, the consumer basket should be revised 1 time every 5 years. For the past 10 years, there has been no review of the composition of the consumer basket in Ukraine. External and internal conditions are changing. The socio-economic situation in the country is changing, and people are still trying to force themselves to live by ten years of age, which were old and inadequate 10 years ago. We can note that the country's social policies and actions have been completely disrupted by protests against Chernobyl, Afghans, people who have given their lives, saving their homeland, today demonstrate the social instability and social protest that is taking place throughout the country. And if power continues to function inadequately today and does not understand that changing social standards is a permanent path of stability in the State, that today, by destroying small and medium-sized businesses and by mocking the economy, by selling Ukraine's economy without creating conditions that destroy all social guarantees, we will lead the country to total destruction. And today our demands are clear: to revise the consumer basket; to recalculate an adequate living minimum for people and to give an understandable strategic social policy to the State when people know what they are. Today, the State is provided with a resource for security of residence and when there is a just social policy. That's why I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u174	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u175	I insist that Bill 9016 be adopted and that we hear an adequate position of the Government and the authorities on social policy, because it is certainly easier to manage poor people, but it will never be an independent Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u176	Perhaps it's easier for rich people to manage. Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u177	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! Dear fellow MPs! A bill of amendments to the Act on Living Minimum is proposed. [[on the principles of the formation and establishment of a consumer basket and minimum of living]] The bill proposes to amend part 1 of article 3, stating that food sets and nonfood packages are not less than once a year. Now, old - fashioned, only once every five years, and inflation changes every year. So why do we change the minimum of living and the methodology over and over again every year? It is also proposed to calculate the minimum cost of living, taking into account the consumer price index defined in the main macroeconomic projections of Ukraine’s economic, social development for the year in question. Dear fellow countrymen, the unsatisfying state of the economy, the high rates of inflation, primarily for food, utilities, require the adoption of the bill. This will allow higher social standards for the population to meet the real needs of people and meet the real rise in consumer prices. And I'd like to add a little sociological evidence to that. Now 50 percent of Ukrainian citizens regard themselves as poor people, and 73 percent believe that the economic situation in Ukraine has deteriorated considerably and the government is going in the wrong direction. So maybe there's a way to change this disgraceful direction towards improving people's lives, actually improving people's lives? And we have to do that by changing the old methods of living to the minimum, to support the most vulnerable levels of the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u178	From the committee head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u179	Dear fellow countrymen, when I hear you are fed 125 grams a day or 5 grams a day with bread, so that you may know who did this: those who are now here crying for your health. In 2001, Prime Minister Yushchenko refused to listen to me as head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions in order to change the consumer basket. In 2005, when a new consumer basket was served, Prime Minister Timoshenko, who was twice prime minister, refused to listen to the change in the consumer basket. President Yushchenko was president for five years and refused to hear about the consumer basket. Now you're eating what this government didn't do. And so today, when they say that you have to change, you definitely have to change. If in 2005, these ladies, who didn't want to change the minimum pension, were 498 bracelets that had stalled for a year's pay, paid the teachers who had stalled the minimum wage, even if they had taken a step in social protection, today people would be eating more halls and more bread. And now it goes out here and blasphemy requires you to do it, we'll do it because we already did it because we have a pension of over 800 dollars, that's a little bit, twice as much. Because for the first time in years of independence, the minimum wage is 100 percent equal to the minimum wage and much more. And what you're proposing to do every year is give it to God, and that's exactly what we're asking our government to give a new living minimum this year, given new consumer basket calculations. We will force our government, the government of Azarov, to establish new standards based on which new consumer prices are based, a new basket. And then we're going to review that year and we're going to increase it by 20 to 30 percent and the minimum pension, and the salary, and so on. That's our real step-by-step, not what you're saying right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u180	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u181	Give me a second to finish, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u182	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u183	There was a time when you could have done it, honestly, decently. You have not done, you have mistreated the people, and now you are making excuses to the people, which you did not do at the time. I propose not to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u184	Let's sign up for the performance. Asshole, please. After him is the Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u185	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The parliamentary group "For the Future" will vote in favour of this bill because, in fact, this bill sets the actual size of the subsistence minimum. And the bill proposes to make the following changes to the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act: every year, following the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve by the Supreme Council food, non-food and services packages by law before the beginning of the consideration of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for the year in question. In fact, before the start of the fiscal year, the Cabinet of Ministers at the Supreme Council provides the actual size of the subsistence minimum. And I honestly don't understand why we have to care today, who did better or worse before, let's do it now, because it's urgent, because it's necessary to do it again, so that the right numbers are set in the State budget of Ukraine, and, frankly, we people's deputies weren't ashamed of the people who, by the way, come here, under the Supreme Council. We're going to vote in favour of this bill, 9016, because it's right because it's necessary because it's social. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u186	Natalia Kraljevska, behind her is Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u187	I'm amazed at the position of the ruling party. When people are not seen, when they do not understand what is happening in the country today, when there is a complete lack of power towards their own people, that is why we see such a result. When people protest and when people today demand to give them what they earn. Well, can it be called an adequate policy when in ten years they do not want to review the consumer basket, when in ten years they do not want to adopt adequate social standards, when today neither inflation nor population employment are in line with any adequate indicators when inflation exceeds all possible indicators when people are poor every month when economic policies and social policies in the country are completely broken? And now you have an ostrich policy: to put your head in the sand, not to hear any alternative proposals or to accept what the opposition is offering. And that's why you're provoking the country to the fullest resistance. We invite you, let's sit down and review and offer an adequate consumer basket to the people. We will tell people that today in a country where power is declared: the economy is growing, so this growth of the economy must be directed not to the debt of energy companies, not to the debt cancellation of oligarchs, but to the change of consumer baskets today, when people will know clearly what they are set up by the State, what they have earned and what they can expect today. You don't have that policy. We have an alternative. Mr. Pavlevski and I have prepared, together with the faction, an alternative vision of the social policy of State development, social policy on consumer baskets and minimum standards that should be in force in the twenty-first century.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u188	Mikhailo Chechetov. Get ready, Prestenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u189	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to turn my back on one of the points of the previous speaker. He says there's a position of power. Yes, there is a pragmatic, realistic position of power when we come from a real economic situation and realize that the real standard of living of people can only be raised with economic growth. But I want to look at the position of BUTT and "Our Ukraine – Self-Defense". The people elected 153 people from BUT to Parliament and 82 from Our Ukraine to Self-Defense. 225 pcs. I'm sure that's the law of these 225 people who were standing on the floor yelling, "Stupid, yes!" And the people believed them, that the law and half would not vote for it. This indicates that the populist diaper from the eyes of more than half of the members of the BUT and our Ukraine is gradually slipping away, people are becoming transparent, pragmatic and understanding, and supporting the President's sound policies. And anything can be said, and the results of the vote will now show how many people out of the 225 butlers and our self-defence Ukrainians elected by the people will vote in favour of this law, I am sure, less than half. Because the rest have seen and every day will be more and more perturbed. I am in favour of the transparency of Parliament so that Parliament can adopt pragmatically sound laws that push the country out of a deadlock and effectively raise the standard of living of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u190	Marina Perestenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u191	I give my word to Gordienko Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u192	Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u193	Dear Chairman! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Today, all Ukrainian citizens are witnessing an extremely interesting phenomenon that is taking place here in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council. Who will not support the drafter of the bill, which comes out in a well - set voice, with righteous anger on his face convinces him that a minimum of living needs to be reviewed? Let's go to all of our Ukrainian homes and all 100 percent. But today I would like to draw attention to the way our Ukrainians are being fooled. And today our Ukrainians should listen to such bills, and there is no doubt that the Company will support this bill. I'd like to ask you a question: why don't you support the Company's proposals for decades? And my colleagues Lechchenko and Alexandrovska spoke, but you didn't hear them. And I'd like to say that these are double standards. And what I'd like to say is that people understand who are really friends of the people and how these "friends" are fighting against the people. I'd like to remind you that those who are in power, they're forgetting about the social bloc. And in 2000, former President Yushchenko, as prime minister, introduced this novelty to stop the entire social bloc in the state budget. I'm the author of the acne project, and I'd like to remind everyone that in the state budget that you voted in the last few years, you've ruled out 112 laws that apply to social programs. Today, you have a conscience to go out and tell people with righteous anger about the cost of living. Fear God! And people need to know how.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u194	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act on consumer basket formation. [[Registration number 9016]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:28:31]] For a hundred and The factions. Region Party 3, BUT 55, Our Ukraine 27, communist 25, reform 17, People's Party didn't vote, non-fractional 3. The following proposal is put to the vote: adoption of the bill number 9016-1. Please vote. [[13:29:12]] For-100 Not supported. We are considering a draft Act amending article 167 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on taxation of income in the form of salaries of medical, pedagogical and science and teaching workers working in public and municipal establishments]] [[Bill 8567 registration number]] There's a short cut. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:29:54]] For 199
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u195	It might not be a shortcut, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u196	199. Offer supported. The author of the bill will report to Vladimir Alexander Yavorowski. Prepare Pinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u197	I'm the author of this bill. And you know, when I heard it from this rostrum today, it said that our Ukrainian people are coming out, starving, it's getting more realistic, it's only starting to make sense when they're undernourished. When I also heard from this rostrum today that I really need to pursue a true policy, an open policy, a hard policy, you know, I've got a panorama in front of my eyes that's so, you know, wide-ranging. On this stand Papiev, a young littoral, reads a short bill as a shot, says that twice the minimum wage should be increased, twice the pension should be increased, twice the living basket should be increased. Well, you're so empty today that you can put it on the heads of officials, because there's absolutely nothing in there. A month and a half stood there in the rostrum to support this totally false, lying idea of Papiev. I want to say, by the way, to these elections, who will go to these elections next or the presidential ones, or these, remember that the people have lied. The entire cavalry set is already in use. Now we just have to ask them. Tell me, what else can you lie to please? Otherwise, it's nothing. It's all been lied to. Janukovic had already promised to make teachers and doctors public officials. What happened? Please, I'm going to give you a little bit of this right now, you're going to see how much we have in our home country, look, the manager gets 39 bracelets per hour, the marketing specialist 35, the last place a medic -- 10 bracelets per hour. A pack of cigarettes, if you'll excuse me. And teachers and teachers earn a little more than 12 bracelets a day. Can we live for it or can't we live for it? And the Smoker claims that teachers make little money because of what they do, you see, little work. And we got it, and we got it in a meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u198	Thank you. From the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Yuri Vasilovich Karakai Please, Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u199	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! A panel of professionals at its meeting pointed out that a bill had been considered. I wanted to add that this is not the first bill introduced by the people's deputies that envisions a reduction in the rate of wage taxation for individual categories of workers. The Committee decided, by a majority of votes, to recommend to the Supreme Council that it reject it. This is also the position taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. What is the basis for this? First. The fact that the introduction of a tax approach to the taxation of salaries of individual categories of workers contradicts the basic principle of taxation, the principle of equality of all taxpayers before the law. The other one. According to the Ukrainian Cabinet, the loss of this law for the year of coming to the budget will amount to over 2 billion dollars. So we ask the Supreme Council to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u200	Thank you. Let's sign up for introductions. Soročinska Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u201	To pass on the word of Hashuk Peter Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u202	Please, Hasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! According to the author, Ukrainian National Deputy Yavorowski, the purpose of the bill is to amend article 167, paragraph 167, of the Ukrainian Tax Code, to reduce the income tax of individuals from 15 to 17 per cent. What will be used to tax the wages of medical, pedagogical and scientific teachers who work in institutions of state and municipal property. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office did not make its views clear about the adoption of the legislative initiative, but it does warn about discrimination against private workers in relation to public workers. In my opinion, the issue of the legislative initiative on the need for comprehensive state support for medical, pedagogical and science-pedagogical workers working in public and municipal property institutions, given their lack of income, is extremely relevant and deserves support. In our country, everything is done for the development of metallurgy, mining, nadra and others, where the long-standing 10 percent interest rate has been set. However, the professions that depend on the lives, health, and education of our citizens are always a waste of time. In view of the above, I propose that the bill be adopted in the first reading for more detailed analysis in preparation for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u204	It's heresy. It's the BOOT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u205	Please pass the word to Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u206	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u207	Most of the time today, we hear from our Prime Minister's mouth the almost pure English for "no money." So I just want to tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u208	Turn on the microphone. On the rostrum, Jereshko passed it on to Jaborovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u209	No, no, no, Tomenka!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u210	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u211	Tomenko!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u212	Moses?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, I thank Igor Hennadiyovich for giving me his word and would like to say that the discussion on the state of health teachers and health workers is extremely relevant, and we picked it up at the morning session when the discussion took place. Well, I'd be out of the situation today, first of all, we need to sort things out with the wages that are there today. Once again, the Prime Minister told the teachers that today we have a teacher's salary in 2011 of 2 000 530 dollars. I want to say again that I have met with teachers from Cherkaske, Poltavsk, Kyiv region, and I have not found any living teachers who receive such a salary. So the question arises, Who receives such a salary as is officially declared at the convention, and what is the problem? Another problem. Today, it is vital that those local officials found today as a mechanism be severely punished to report to the government that they are paying their wages. Today, in virtually every school, through the district education department or otherwise, teachers are forced to take a vacation at their own expense, and in some areas, they are wise to do so. For example, if a teacher is a supporter of the Party of Regions, he only takes one day on his own, if a supporter of the BUTU, for example, has to take four days on his own to order a bracelet for being in the opposition party. Second position. In preschool. Today, there has been a total reduction in the number of people working in preschools, although the paradox is that the children have increased because it is now a compulsory preschool education, the children are increasing and the states are shrinking. That's why I said it like that. The maximum program offered by colleague Vladimir Yavorowski needs to be supported because standards of living need to be raised. By the way, I don't agree with the committee statement about what we're going to do. We won't think of anything. Look, we've got miners, emergency workers, paramilitary workers, 10 percent. So we have about 4, 5 categories already have this benefit. So I think it's going to be the right thing to do, but first of all, let's sort of sort of sort of order with the wages that are declared by teachers and not paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u214	Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u215	Vladimir Moses, party "For Ukraine!".. Please give it to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u216	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u217	A great actor said that if there's no money, look, they're in the tumor. Well, you're sitting on the curb right now. Please, you've got the keys to it, take it, get it. What do I mean? How many things can be deceiving in this regard? Indeed, a country that today does not support a teacher has no future. Doctors today earn 10 bucks an hour. Here in Pavlovsky, there are estimates that the government today does not pay teachers, you hear, teachers, about 800 dollars to your salary today, just takes and does not pay. What Tomenko just said is that you have to do what's on paper today. But where is the money? Well, I took it literally today, coming here, going online, and I found it. Please. More than 6.5 million dollars will be spent on repairs to public gates. Another 3 million 945 thousand there with tails the same company will receive repairs to Special Forces 9 and 10. Another tender won?What?? Almost a million dollars worth of Stroyservis Crimea. 56.3 million dollars of government budget will be spent on reconstruction of state residences in Crimea and construction of two helicopters. For the construction of logging roads, it will cost 7 million 300,000 to hunt Yanukovich, our beloved President. In Donetsk, they're going to build a terminal for VIP aircraft, which is where a beautiful airport, especially for itself, is operating today, for 2-3 ten people. 307 million from the state budget is allocated to satisfy them. I would like to say that the Cabinet of Ministers has already allocated 900 million dollars to this airport. So, people are good people, but even though they are a little bit shaky, add, indeed, to our teachers and doctors. I'm not offering to print money that will fuel inflation, I'm offering living money. 5 percent lower taxes, we'll support them a little bit. If there was a conscience, you'd do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u218	Question completed. Samolica, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u219	Adam Ivanovich, our faction will vote in favour of this bill, as we have always supported both teaching and medicine and cultural workers. As far as the previous speakers are concerned. Well, I'm actually a little bit impressed by why you're so late to see things. When 300 or 500 schools were destroyed each year, why did you remain silent? Why did you keep silent when complete preschool education was destroyed, when teachers were paid by straw? Why didn't you say anything? And now just because the parliamentary elections are coming up, did you talk about it?Oh, my God! Why didn't you vote on any of these issues that we're discussing today when you've been in power for 10 years? I remember how you failed all my laws on the pension of teachers. At the time, the teachers felt sorry for the money, and now you feel that enough is needed. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u220	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 167 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on taxation of income in the form of salaries of medical, pedagogical and science and teaching workers working in public and municipal establishments]] [[Registration number 8567]] Please vote. [[13:43:39]] For-119 The bill is not supported. Declined. We're listening to a question, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[establishing a progressive scale of taxation of the income of natural persons]] [[Registration number 8638]] There's an offer -- it's short. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] And your proposal will be put to the vote if the first one doesn't pass. [[13:44:13]] For 199 Supported. Please, Andrew Pavlovski, author of the bill. Prepare Karakai.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u221	Andrew Pavlovski, "Blok Timoshenko is "The Fatherland." Respectable compatriots! According to the United Nations in Ukraine, 80 percent of the population is below the poverty line, and 25 percent are already below the poverty line. The difference between the wealthiest and the poorest is 40 times. And a dozen clan families from the Party of Regions control almost 90 percent of the economy. And that's not enough for them: the government of Azarov is trying to deprive 16 categories of citizens of social assistance in the face of a violent rise in prices and tariffs. These socially dangerous indicators are the result of a very unfair system of taxation, income distribution, and social well - being. With the aim of restoring social justice and reducing the tax burden on low- and middle-income citizens of the opposition, the Fatherishina faction has drafted a bill proposing to reduce the tax rate from 15 per cent to 10 per cent for those who do not have more than 10 times the minimum wage. The same where large, incomes, more than 30 minimum wages, are proposed to apply a progressive scale of taxation following the example of the United States, Sweden and France. But the upper limit is very liberal: 30 percent of everything. And in the United States, it's 40, and in Sweden and France, it's over 50. State regulation through progressive taxation: luxury tax, offshore tax denunciation – is a means of reducing social tension and inequality and is successfully applied in all civilized countries of the world, except Ukraine. Ukraine, because of this inefficient policy, anti-national, is on the verge of a social explosion. Let us adopt this law that will restore justice in taxation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u222	The committee is Yuri Vasilovich Karakai.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u223	The honourable presiding, respected colleagues, the committee of profile has repeatedly considered similar bills that have touched on the introduction of a progressive rate of taxation on citizens’ income. We know that some time ago such a system had been in operation in Ukraine and was declared ineffective because it had led to the tinification of wages, paid in envelopes. Therefore, the new Tax Code introduced the sole rates of payment of citizens’ income tax. Next position. The Ukrainian Tax Code establishes new approaches to taxation of citizens' incomes, which are also differentiated in nature. The tax code hasn't worked for a year. Therefore, the committee, based on the need to wait and look at the results of the Tax Code, at least over the course of the year to make any further informed, rather than populist decisions, taking into account the negative results of the progressive tax scale in previous periods and the fact that, according to the expert conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers, losses from the bill, only local budgets amount to $14 billion per year, the committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council to reject it. A similar expert conclusion signed by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u224	Shall we discuss it? Let's sign up. Natala Krávsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, we know that in our country half the wages are paid in envelopes. And when wages are paid in envelopes, people get money for survival, not for social security, but for childish pay, we have a duty to lower wages. By lowering the wage tax, we raise both wages and raise incomes in the budget. Because more and more wages are being paid legally. This reform was carried out by all European and some post-Soviet countries, when people revised the wage tax, Governments revised and gave a tax rate that benefits people and benefits the State. Today, in Ukraine, one of the highest rates of taxation, wage taxes and, therefore, wages are paid in envelopes. We must take the first step today and signal that we are able to review the income tax, that we are able to reduce the burden on the wage fund today, and that we are able to give people more money. If the Government declares that it is unable to raise wages, then reduce taxes, then make a transparent budget and give people an adequate signal that you are ready to make concessions today and that people will receive more wages. The opposition has developed an alternative proposal for you, and we ask that this proposal be supported today in the Chamber. Because just by lowering the tax, people today come out of the shadows and people today can get a lot more pay. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u226	Vladimir Moses. Get ready, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u227	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Please give the word of Volodymyr to Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u228	Please, Vladimir Viezowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u229	Vladimir Vizewski, "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense. I wanted to contact the opponents of this bill. I want to take the next one into account, so we can all take it. If the government says that there will be a huge underfunding of local budgets today, let's do a simple thing: if we're so afraid of poor citizens lowering the tax, let's, to the best of our ability, let's increase the tax, and so next year we'll expect more revenue. And in the future, it is entirely fair to ask the question that in 2013 a progressive scale of taxation would also work for those citizens who would have to go to a meeting and cut taxes, as in a civilized world, when the rich would have to carry and be socially responsible to those citizens they take to work. If a person earns more, he has to pay more to the pension fund. The more a person gets, the more he gets, the more he gets in our country. The last social. The social indicators themselves show that in our country, those who are rich are even richer, and the poor are even poorer. The bill is proposed as an option today to look into the profile committee, to read second-read the accepted tax rates for both poor citizens and wealthy citizens, and to go from a positive balance to a 2012 budget, and in this way to resolve the issues and local self-government, to improve the 2012 budget and to further reduce taxes for poor citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u230	Thank you. I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. Please, Vladimir Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u231	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u232	Zybenko’s word. Prepare the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u233	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill. But we are witnessing today that we are listening to a number of bills that have been submitted by representatives of the so - called opposition or opposition. And I've drawn attention to the key word that's echoing in the bill rapporteurs: we have to do this today. So I'm asking myself this question: and yesterday, when the government, starting with the minister, the Prime Minister and the President, was in their hands, it wasn't relevant, it wasn't necessary. Of course not. It is simply, unfortunately, that there is a consistent position of our faction in the lawmaking activity today, which, while in one camp or another, consistently protects the interests of man’s work. As far as our colleagues are concerned, the position changes very often depending on where they are: in power, that position, in opposition, that position. So what we're talking about is that we have to have a consistent position on these issues. One more thing I'd like to turn to. By the way, this element was introduced just from the one command that says today, it's wrong, it's not true. And they've moved away from this approach, that is, the progressive scale, in these very times. Because it just seems, at first glance, that absolute justice is that everyone, let's say, 13 percent. But sorry, 13 percent for a millionaire is one thing, and 13 percent for a person who gets a thousand dollars or less is a lot different. So this is about visibility, let's say positive. And one more thing I wanted to pay attention to. Respectful colleagues, who are very often defaming the Soviet authorities, confirm by this bill that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u234	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u235	It wasn't all bad. And in Soviet times, there was a progressive scale of taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u236	Caplienne, the Reform Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u237	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! You know, when we were looking at this bill at the Expert Council meeting of the MP group, we basically split up in half. Of course, there is a problem. And world experience proves that the state should regulate through progressive taxation the reduction of the threshold of social inequality. Here, even in an explanatory note, the drafters proved that in some countries of the world, such as Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, I think this ratio is quite low. That is, when those who receive minimum income in principle break up with those who receive maximum income no more than five times. It's possible and right. But I would like to point out that the countries to which we refer have approved standards of overly social security for the state in relation to its citizens. And so maybe getting the minimum wage during their work is compensated by the pension costs and social guarantees they get after they retire. We don't have that in Ukraine. Not enough, I would like to point out that in countries like the United States, Canada, France, Germany, or Israel, these indicators are in a very different direction. For example, instead of restricting the income of the majority of their citizens, they give benefits to high - cost people who receive high incomes. So maybe we're going the wrong way. And one more question. Please tell us today that 15 percent of Ukrainian citizens receive high taxes. If they get 30 percent, won't they go into the shadows? And won't this bill even make you hide that part of the salary that's still on the surface? So we're not going to support this bill, based on technical considerations, x-eyes, essentially it's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u238	Carmazine, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u239	Yuri Carmazin. Dear people's deputies, look, the whole world that's in crisis right now is actually going this way. They increase taxes for the rich. The whole world. Our rich don't pay taxes at all. You know that very well. That is why these terrible benefits are not destroyed today because of offshore accounts. We've got 16 of them today. And that's why you don't want to hit this big business. Don't be afraid. The whole of Europe is civilized, which is what you want to be worded for, and it does exactly the same thing: the same bets are 17 percent and 20 percent and 30 percent for profit. Because there's nothing to talk about, and in fact, the policy that is being pursued by today's government is demagogic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u240	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[establishing a progressive scale of taxation of the income of natural persons]] Please vote. [[13:59:11]] For-96 Not supported. The number of votes required. Overruled.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u241	Adam Ivanovich, by factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u242	The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 1, BUT – 45, Our Ukraine – 23, Communists – 25, reforms and the People's Party – did not vote, non-fractional – 2. Rereading the first reading. Draft Decision on 100th anniversary of the birth of the Hero of Ukraine Alexa Hoornik. [[Registration number 8661-d]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:59:59]] For 186 Supported. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. First there's a little line. One wise man said it was before we could say a very wise phrase all the time there, back, back and forth, and then what was then and what was then. He says, "Normal nations fight for their future, and we fight with our past forever, and we win forever, and we win forever." This bill has already been considered. I don't think there's any need to talk about him in detail right now. I'm just going to remind our radio listeners, if they are, and the MPs, who may not have been the hero of Ukraine at the time, did an amazing thing. He went up to Taras' Mountain, left a note saying he wanted to see Ukraine democratically, he wanted to see Ukraine free, and he set himself on fire in protest. It's a perfectly well-known fact, uniquely simple. He was later sentenced to the name Hero of Ukraine. He wasn't a politician, so don't sew some kind of politics on him, and so on, there was just a Ukrainian patriot who, well, couldn't stand what happened in language, culture, that sort of thing. That's why there's a proposal, we've considered it last time, and you've proposed, the Supreme Council, that is, we've offered to work on it. Completed. I'm just going to read a transcript of ours so that it's in the transcript. The committee suggests that, during its consideration of the plenary session, such changes be made to the text of the ruling. In the preamble of March 29, to replace 27, the authors made a simple mistake. Paragraph 4 of paragraph 2 should be moved to paragraph 5. In the above paragraph, replace the word "implementation" with "arrangement" and after "the death of the Bogorodians," add the term "Ivano-Frankiv region." In paragraph 3, the words "organize the show of thematic television broadcasts" change to "organize thematic television, radio. " The Committee on Culture and Spirituality carried out its mission, clarified everything, led it to a standard of normal. There's only one left.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u244	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u245	There's only one thing left for you to vote for. We'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u246	Yes. Shall we vote? Who insists on the discussion? Gnutkevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, I would like to make two small remarks on this subject, as Paul Mokchan, a sensation, says. I would like to remind you that Alexa Hoornik was the patriot of his nation, he fought for its preservation. In the days of Panama, he fought against the occupation. We know how difficult it was because there was no Ukrainian school. He was concerned that the Ukrainians in the days of Suslov had given up their language in a mass way. And it's natural. We too are concerned when Ukrainians renounce their language. He wasn't even in the UPA, he wasn't a gangster. He was even an internationalist because he was in favor of the Poles, who were loaded with goods. I'd like to say another sensation. Dear colleagues, how long do we have to insult each other? You call us nationalists, bandits, Nazis, even fascists. We say you're perverted, you're collaborators, you're chauvinists. Olesia Donya says there are Russian nationalists in our government. Let us stop this practice! I would suggest if we voted in favour of this decision, that we actually hold a round table, a conference where we would get together on one side of the Communists, and we, the nationalists, would talk. We see the same realities in our country. We can only draw different conclusions from this. I think we have to find a common language and build Ukraine, well, really tolerant and national and language. I think we should still support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u248	It's about the vote. It's about the 100th anniversary of the birth of the Hero of Ukraine, Alexa Hoornik. [[Registration number 8661-d]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:04:54]] For-93 The decree is rejected. We are hearing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality concerning the conduct of matters concerning restrictions on the exercise of the right to peaceful meetings. [[Registration number 9052]] There's an offer to consider a reduced procedure, please support. [[14:05:30.]] For-195 Supported. Reported to be the subject of the legislative initiative Royal Natalia Jurijovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u249	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I propose to your attention a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Procedure of Ukraine concerning proceedings concerning restrictions on the exercise of the right to peaceful assembly. [[Number 9052]] The purpose of the bill is to resolve issues related to the constitutional right of citizens to peaceful assembly. I mean, I propose that the reasons and timing for the executive authority being allowed to go to court for the prohibition of peaceful activities be clearly defined. We all remember August 24th when people came from all over the country to go through freedom marches. Under the Constitution, they had the full right to do so. And we remember the decision of the court when the Kiev City Administration appealed to the court to ban the passage of the convoy. And we remember thousands of Berkuts when they chased people away. We remember "automaidan" on August 24, when people on cars came from all over the country to drive around the capital of their family and show us what we are and what we are alive. And we remember how the police blocked all the central streets of Kiev with a ban on the movement of convoys to Kiev. We are well aware of the trial of Yulia Timoshenko in the Pecher Court, when the people who came to support their political leader were being prosecuted and prevented from showing their citizenship. Dear colleagues, I insist that we today have an obligation to stop manipulating the decisions of the courts currently in power, because they have forbidden to move, forbidden to follow the decisions of the court, and that is to say, they will not breathe. And today we understand that it is necessary to revise the law and revise the rules. Violence will not build a peaceful and free country, and people need to be given an opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u250	Thank you. Have a seat. From the committee. The committee did not consider the bill. But since the deadlines were introduced were more than 30 days, the author insisted on his consideration. Shall we discuss it? Sign up. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u251	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Of course, no one here has any illusions that this bill is voted by the authorities, who use the courts as a tool for carrying out their own policies, no one doubts that. But I would just like to remind our fellow citizens of what just happened to 24 numbers. 24 numbers is Ukraine's Independence Day, it's a national holiday, it's a national holiday, it's a celebration for every Ukrainian citizen who lives in an independent Ukraine. It's just that we have some part of the government that still thinks that it lives in another country, in a dependent country, in some virtual country, and that's why they actually made a decision to stop the whole center of Kiev, not to allow it to follow a pre-accepted local government route, which is in advance agreed with the local police, eventually, on the route, and to demonstrate its attitude as such, and on the other hand, as such. So it's an absolute norm in a democratic country, it's even an absolute norm in some semi-democratic countries, but unfortunately, it's not the norm for today's Ukrainian state. And actually it stopped being the norm after 100 percent of the power was given to one party in Ukraine. It's not Communist anymore, but it's the Party of Regions, but the methods of action are the same as they were in the far away 1991, 1990, to the independence of the country, when all the demonstrations were staged, where the blue and yellow flag was raised, where the issue of Ukraine's independence, statehood and composure was raised. And here it was actually a round date, 20 years from Independence Day, yes, and the authorities cynically, in a rude, sneaky form made this holiday turn into, I don't know, a holiday of terror and a police state. This is what happened then. And actually here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u252	I understand that you mean that the Party of Regions has come to power for at least 70 years. Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u253	Please pass the word to Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u254	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Ukrainian Company will not support this bill, and I will explain why. This is a matter on which the drafter has submitted his bill, it is regulated by law, it is fully regulated by law. I want to say that the actual version of the execution of court orders uses two terms, namely "immediately" and "immediately." As far as the authors' suggestions are concerned, it means "for three days" and, or "on the same day." I think, for example, and we've analyzed this situation, for example, we think that the words "immediately" and "immediately," they absolutely match the essence of the problem. And the need to change the actual drafting of the law, well, at least we don't see it at all. The other thing that I understand is that in a moment, under a situation, we're trying to build two different laws. We will soon come to the point that we will put words into the legislation where Timoshenko is concerned, directly the surname, or all the articles that apply to him will be excluded. Well, dear fellows, if we want a single approach, let's take one approach. I stress once again that the issue is completely settled by law, and we do not see the need to make changes to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u255	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u256	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland’s Defenders You know, Your Honor, I'm upset with the last speech. I'm so upset. Because of what? Because you freely or arbitrarily restrict the Constitution. You're just limiting it. Brutal for that. Because it is in article 39 of the Constitution that citizens have the right to meet peacefully without arms and to hold meetings, rallyings, marches and demonstrations, which are notified in advance by executive authorities or local self-government authorities. I mean, they don't ask permission! No, no one gives permission: no Kiev city head, no Donetsk, no Odessa. They are told that we citizens of Ukraine are going there. And go! In the second part, it is only in the interests of national security and public order to prevent disturbances or crimes, to protect the health of the population or to protect the rights and freedoms of others. other people. All of it! This is what the Constitution tells you. And now your selling courts are doing what they say and do. You made people ask, think! - to get together and walk. Because you support this coalition, you support its pants. Because of this. And they're already falling, and you can see it's all naked. You said you were ready for winter. You're not ready for winter. You are now Alex Hoornik, who wrote, last words, a protest against the Russian occupation in Ukraine, a protest against the Russians' Russians' Russians: "Let's live the self-congregation of the Ukrainian State! Soviet and not Russian!" It was his last words that were written. The hero of Ukraine! And you didn't vote! And you're sitting here today, in the Ukrainian Parliament, yelling at me?Oh, my God! Shame on you! And the law has to be passed. Thank you, Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u257	Thank you personally. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u258	Dear colleagues, let us lower our emotions a little. Well, in any democratic country, the primary function of law enforcement agencies is to ensure the safety of every citizen, regardless of his or her position, of the nation, of sex, of religion, of age, and, above all, to protect his or her safety, so that he does not suffer from confrontations or provocations. This is the primary function, for which the taxpayer finances these law enforcement agencies through the budget. This time. Now the second one. In any democratic country, my right cannot be exercised to the detriment of the rights of someone. It can't be like that. The rights of some cannot be exercised to the detriment of the rights of others. Yeah, in Kiev, the main crowd wants to go out with the kids, and they want to go out with the kids on a holiday. Someone wanted to be confused. And the previous speaker rightly said that the Constitution enshrined the right. He clearly read, thank you, it was one of the country's best lawyers who spoke now. He made it clear that the Constitution stated that when law enforcement authorities saw the possibility of provocations that could potentially affect civilians, they could take appropriate measures. Therefore, in this situation, it is precisely the meaning of democracy that we will be a real, great Ukrainian democratic family if we do not try or assert the rights of some to the detriment of the rights of others. We must respect everyone's rights. Then it will be a truly friendly Ukrainian family, and unbeatable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-02-m0.u259	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal: to adopt a bill to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice on the conduct of matters concerning restrictions on the exercise of the right to peaceful meetings. [[Registration number 9052]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:17:19]] For-40 The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we have two questions left, shall we consider them? [[B in m in s a l in]] At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. At 3 p.m., we have committee meetings, factions, groups. We're starting work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
