ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:49]] A total of 346 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Gureev Vasil Mikolaiovich. Please welcome our colleague, wish him health and success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 21 April 2011. Forty-eight issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 24 laws and 13 regulations were passed, 7 bills were passed on the basis, 4 bills were returned to the committee for further work, 4 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Friday, from 10 to 11 a.m., are held "the hour of questions to the Government". Representatives of the deputy factions made proposals during the "hour of questions to the government" to hear information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the Ukrainian and Russian negotiations on the customs union. Deputy factions of the Party of the Regions, "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherschina", "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense", the Communist Party of Ukraine and the MP's "For the Future Reforms" group, based on part six of article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, have been informed in advance by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the questions they would like to ask for answers from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, to answer the questions of Ukrainian national deputies on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Constantine Ivanovich Grishchenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you once again that the Rules provide for the next order of the "hour of questions to the Government". On a question to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from the MP factions, groups and directly national MPs who have written their questions, 30 minutes to question directly the national MPs present, 30 minutes. I'd like the answers to the written questions briefly, within two minutes. Written questions, questions of the oral members of the national parliament would be asked to be formulated within one minute. The answers are also for two minutes. Is there no objection? None. Dear colleagues! I'd like to invite you to the Foreign Minister's podium, Constantine Ivanovich Grishchenk. In that case, if you have any questions about the other members of the Cabinet of Ministers, you will be able to do so within 30 minutes. Constantine Ivanovich, I would ask you in turn from each faction on a question. And so we're going around the circle.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I'm going to point out that the topic of Ukrainian-Russian bilateral cooperation is traditionally arousing the attention of the deputy corps. This is especially evident in the fact that I am speaking in this rostrum for the second time in almost two months. This time, 24 written questions were received from four MPs and one MP group. The MP's faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 9 questions, the MP's faction of the Party of the Regions – 5 questions, the MP's faction "Clock of the Yulia Timoshenko - "The Father" – 3 questions, the MP's faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine and the MP's "Reforms for the Future" – one question at a time. Since most of the questions are resonating or are related to one topic, with a view to saving time in my answers, I will group some of them together. In particular, regarding Ukraine’s relations with the Customs Union of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan, and the Russian Federation, there are seven such questions. Questions from the MP's faction of the Party of the Regions. What does the format of cooperation with the three plus one customs union mean? From the MP's faction, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." What difference does it make, if any, between the introduction of Ukraine to the customs union of Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus and cooperation with these countries in the format "three plus one", please specifically? From the faction of the Party of the Regions. How is Ukraine’s relationship with the Customs Union of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation being developed? From the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Can you officially state that Ukraine will not join the customs union for today's authorities? Question from the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." The first vice-premier of the Ukrainian government, Andriy Klav, in a conversation with his Russian counterpart, Igor Shuvalov, said in answer to a question about the entry into the customs union: "In order for Ukraine to join the customs union, we will have to go through a very serious internal procedure, so clearly answer this question I cannot, but we show a great interest in the customs union." So the government’s leadership does not reject the possibility of being part of a customs union and testifies to the Government’s great interest in it. How do you appreciate the second person’s comments in the Ukrainian government? Next question from the faction, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." How could it possibly be implemented, as proposed by President Viktor Yanukovic, a scheme for Ukraine's participation in the customs union "three plus one", if the statute of the customs union has been marked by experts, does not allow any conditions, but means no other forms of cooperation other than those laid down in the statute of full membership? And the question from the MP's faction, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." The question is that the responsible secretary of the customs union commission, Sergei Glazierev, in an interview with the newspaper "Comersant", said that Russia did not understand what was meant by "three plus one". Glaziers confidently predicted that the next step in Ukraine's entry into the customs union would be the only economic space. What reasons should Glaziers make similar statements after the negotiations of Yanukovich and Putin? And the question from the deputy faction of "BUT" is: "What are the basic conditions expressed by the Russian side regarding Ukraine's entry into the customs union?" I'd like to give you the next answer. In line with the defined and legally established principles of Ukraine’s internal and external policies, European integration remains the country’s top foreign policy priority. The irreversibility of the Ukrainian course on European integration has once again been confirmed by the President of Ukraine in his annual letter to the Supreme Council. In recent times, this trend has been followed by a small system of work for the preparation of an association agreement that is to be made up of an in-depth and inclusive area of free trade. By the end of this year, we want to compromise to remove differences in sides and sign this document. At the same time, this does not prevent us from developing other forms of mutually beneficial cooperation with important trading partners in Ukraine. In the context of a possible interaction with the customs union of three, we are ready to work on finding an acceptable formula for relationships. As the President of Ukraine pointed out in his message, Ukraine's interaction with the customs union can follow the three plus one formula. That means the next one. First, Ukraine intends to interact with the customs union outside the framework of its formal membership. We are not in the negotiating process with the customs union as such. No conditions on the part of the Russian official on Ukraine’s entry into the customs union were met, only the desire to see our country in this union was expressed. Secondly, as everyone in the room is probably aware, the free trade zone agreement, although with certain exemptions and restrictions, exists with each individual state, member of the customs union, and a number of sectoral agreements have been concluded in the areas of industry, transport, fuel and energy and agri-industrial complexes, social policy, etc. For Ukraine, it is vital that trade conditions with Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan do not deteriorate in connection with customs union formations. Since there is a threat that the protective measures in force in trade with one country will be extended to one customs union territory after the relevant decision of the customs union commission has been taken. I would just like to point out to you that, for today, there are no exceptions to the free trade regime in Ukraine and Belarus. The Russian Federation, when importing with Ukraine, applies an exemption for one commercial position, this is sugar, and Kazakhstan 9 commodity positions, these are alcoholic beverages, sugar, alcohol, vodka, cognac, cigarettes, tobacco, raw materials. Appropriate bilateral consultations are being held to determine the position of the parties. In doing so, Ukraine assumes that, in accordance with the national international law, the extension of protection measures throughout the customs union is only possible if the damage is proved to be done by the national producers of the customs union member states as a result of unscrupulous and mass imports. In other words, we have a professional dialogue with Union member states to protect our national interests, the interests of our producers. In this regard, with a view to addressing all possible problems, the Ukrainian side is ready to address the issue of the conclusion of a free trade agreement between Ukraine and the customs union, which will provide for the mutual abolition or progressive reduction of customs tariffs, the dismantling of non-tariff restrictions on trade and other measures. Ideally, such a covenant should be complete and inclusive. To date, however, documents adopted by the Customs Union are far from covered by all kinds of external economic activity. Thus, it is possible to work together with the customs union by making sectoral agreements in areas of mutual interest. It works in the same way, by the way, in the European direction. We're completing a free trade agreement in the European direction, we're members of the Energy Community, we're negotiating to join the common aviation space. This package of contracts can be completely combined with a free trade zone, with a customs union, or used as a separate tool. With regard to the inability of any other form of cooperation with the Customs Union other than its membership, the Customs Union has the right to contract with other countries, international organizations. and published information that, in the future, the "ministery union of three" plans to enter into an agreement on a free trade zone with the European Union. This very purpose indicates that our efforts in both directions are not contradictory to each other. The provisions of article 24 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in 1994 of the World Trade Organization, to which Russia and other members of the Union want to join, also provide that the creation of a customs union should not lead to a deterioration in the terms of trade and external economic activity for third countries compared to the conditions provided for in the previous agreements in this area. In short, our negotiating position with the three customs union states is fully aligned with our negotiating position with the European Union on the conclusion of an association agreement. The following question from the Communist Party MP: "It is obvious that the negative position of joining the customs union with Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan threatens many serious consequences and not only economic consequences for our country, especially in the face of the ongoing crisis, the open reluctance of partners in the European Union to open markets for our agricultural production, machine-building products and other sectors. The introduction to the WTO, which had so much hope, had not changed the situation for domestic goods for the better. The three plus one formula essentially preserves the current situation in an unfavourable climate in Ukrainian-Russian relations. How do you see a solution that would better suit Ukraine's national interests?" I'd like to give you the next answer. The harmonization of national legislation with the rules and requirements of the World Trade Organization in general has had a positive impact on the gradual increase in export opportunities for all sectors of the economy in Ukraine. Thanks to its membership in the WTO, Ukrainian producers and exporters have much better opportunities to avoid or positively resolve disputes from foreign markets, as well as to counter unfair competition by importers on the inside. It should also be noted that both we and the global economy partners have been seriously affected by the global financial crisis. Then, the challenges that have been faced to this day and to this day, our economy is now linked, not so much to our membership in the World Trade Organization, but to the general situation in the world’s markets. At the same time, it is clear that Ukraine’s membership in the World Trade Organization has become a prerequisite for the start of negotiations on the establishment of the Free Trade Zone of Ukraine, the EU. Participation in working groups from other countries to WTO gives Ukraine added weight not only to issues of bilateral trade but also to help solve other problems that remain in line for many years with international partners. The acquisition of WTO membership has enabled our nation not only to become a full - time player in the world market but also to participate in the formation of qualitatively new parameters for world trade in the coming years. It is important to note that Ukraine can participate in the current WTO negotiations in the Doha Development Round under full membership conditions. As far as the best option for Ukraine to suit national interests is concerned, as I said, this is the creation of a deeper and inclusive area of free trade with the EU, as well as the establishment of a mutually beneficial cooperation with the Customs Union outside its membership. I am convinced that Ukraine's interaction with the Customs Union does not conflict with the European integration of our state, but should contribute to it in keeping with the principles I have set out in answering the first group of questions. Questions from the MP's Reform for the Future. How well the government estimates are the figures published by the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation of Putin on Ukraine's winning when it joins the Customs Union. He said it would be between $6.5 billion and $9 billion a year and an increase of 1.5 - 2 percent in annual GDP growth. I think that these estimates, they're probably based on some calculations of the Russian side, and at the same time, it's important in our view to see not only a closer perspective, but also to take into account the real possibilities and the real prospects of our entering a given market. We have to take into account that the European market is several times the size of the customs union, the consumer potential of per capita GDP in Europe is much greater than in Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus. At the same time, it is also vital for us to take into account realities, realities, that very clearly demonstrate the figures of our circulation. Thus, Ukraine’s trade with the Russian Federation, Belarus and Kazakhstan amounted to $42.1 billion in 2010, with exports of $16 billion, 38 per cent of the total, the EU’s 33 billion, with exports of $13.8 billion. This dynamic is changing, and we know that with Russia, more than 60 percent of what we buy is energy, but at the same time, we have to assume that most of our exports consist of the production of machine-building, metallurgy, chemical industry, all those industries that depend on the health of our economy. That is why we need to work with both the European Union and Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus separately and within the customs union. Questions from the MP's faction of the Party of the Regions. Do you think there is a real threat to the implementation of joint Ukrainian-Russian projects in the field of aviation construction, WTS, the peaceful development of space, nuclear energy, agriculture if you refuse to participate in the customs union? The answer. Our interaction with the customs union is aimed exclusively at minimizing potential losses for Ukrainian exporters, and thus by forming a consolidated list of free trade exemptions and reviewing special protection and anti-dumping measures that are being applied in Ukraine's trade with each member state of the Union and extending them to the entire customs territory of the registered union. With regard to joint Ukrainian-Russian projects, are they being implemented within the framework of bilateral agreements and contracts, and thus not related to whether or not we are going to join the customs union? At the same time, of course, we need to consult and agree with the customs union states to create the most favourable conditions for industrial cooperation and to implement the large-scale projects that we agreed on on on a bilateral basis. Questions from the MP's faction of the Party of the Regions. Has it been possible to overcome the decline in Ukraine’s trade with the Russian Federation and reach a cross-cutting level in the last and the first quarter of the current year? The answer. 2010 and the first quarter of this year are characterized by a dynamic increase in trade between our countries. In 2010, the volume of trade in goods and services increased by $15.3 billion or 1.6 times and, as I said, more than $41 billion. Compared to the 2008 crisis, the volume of our trade with Russia exceeded by about 4 percent or 1.5 billion dollars. In January-March this year, trade in goods and services between Ukraine and Russia increased, compared to the corresponding period of last year, nearly a half-time, and made up $12.4 billion. What is particularly important is that the Russian Federation is the main market for high value-added Ukrainian products. It's machine building, it's metallurgical, it's a chemical industry, it's also very important, it's the production of an agro-industrial complex. At the same time, Russia remains an important source of strategically important raw materials, materials, semi-manufacturers and energy carriers, which are about 65 percent of the total import volume, synthetic rubber, copper, nickel, and many others. Next question from the deputy faction, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland. According to the European Union rules, member countries have unequal and uneven rights and zones are determined by the size of their contributions. For example: Russia – 40 percent, Belarus and Kazakhstan – 20 percent, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan – 10. What share of the contributions and corresponding rights are offered to Ukraine?".. I've already answered that question, because we're not negotiating the entry into the customs union, the question as to what, in practical terms, is not. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Russian side has made it clear that if Ukraine's confirmation of its desire to join the customs union, the distribution of votes will be reviewed. But since we are not discussing it, the question of the day does not stand. Questions from the deputy faction of "Timoshenko's House of July - Fatherland." The question relates to the rules of the court of partnership, whose decision may be suspended or amended by national courts. This court is located in St. Petersburg and is governed by civil, administrative and criminal law, which operates at the venue of the court. Do you think Ukraine will be able to protect its interests under such conditions? In this case, the question lies in the same plane as the previous one. Ukraine has no intention of joining this court. But I would just like to point out that as any other international court, it is primarily governed by the norms and rules of international law, and everything else is determined by the agreement of the participating States. Questions from the MP's faction of the Party of the Regions. Do you share the idea that Ukraine needs to develop and approve soon the strategy of international economic integration, which would cover all directions of integration of Ukraine, both in a multilateral format with the EU's EVT, Mercosur, both on a bilateral basis: Ukraine - Turkey, Ukraine - Israel, Ukraine - Canada, Ukraine - Syria, Ukraine - Singapore, etc. The answer. In principle, I think the idea deserves attention. And we'll think about its implementation. But the main thing is the question. The basic principles of Ukraine’s internal and external policies, including international economic integration, are already laid down in the recently approved law. The main objective is to expand international cooperation with a view to attracting foreign investment, new technologies and administrative experience into the national economy in the interests of its reform, modernization and innovation. Of course, our negotiations, which we are negotiating with both the European Union and the member states of the Customs Union, as well as on a bilateral basis with Turkey, Israel, Canada, they all agree with each other. So this strategy in the practical plane is already working. Further questions related to the presence of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine. Questions from the MP's faction, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." On April 27, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, contrary to article 17 of the Ukrainian Constitution, ratified the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, which extended the stay of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine until 2042. At a bilateral level, however, a number of issues remained unresolved, allowing the Black Sea fleet to command the RF and continue to violate the basic agreements of 28.05. In 1997. Whether measures are being taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to revitalize the negotiating process to address current issues related to the temporary stay of the FF in Ukraine, such as the settlement of the border crossing by military personnel, ships, military personnel of the FFF, the conduct of inspections at the locations of the FFF, the order in which the forces of the Black Sea fleet of Russia are used in possible conflicts of the Russian Federation with third countries. The answer. Section XV, paragraph 14 of the Constitution of Ukraine refers to the fact that the use of existing military bases in Ukraine for the temporary stay of foreign military formations may be subject to a lease in accordance with the international treaties of Ukraine ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The right to continue the term of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine was exercised on the basis of the above-mentioned article of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 25 of the basic agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the status and conditions of the presence of the RFF in Ukraine since 28 May 1997, which foresees even automatic continuation of the agreement at the agreement of the parties. The continuation of the agreement allowed the Ukrainian side to reverse the process of regulating the activities of the Russian Federation’s CF in Ukraine within the legal field. In particular, the Ukrainian side insisted on a return to the consideration of such agreements, which the Russian side had expressly refused in previous times. This is primarily the case with the Agreement on the Interaction of Emergency Warnings and the Elimination of Their Consequences in the Settlements, where the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation is based. The text of this agreement is practically agreed upon by the parties at the expert level, as well as the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the action of the parties in the event of a threat to the emergence or occurrence of a crisis involving the use of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation located in Ukraine. A serious discussion of the draft Treaty was initiated to address the issue of crossing the border of Ukraine by military personnel and ships of the Black Sea fleet. At the same time, an inspection agreement has been signed in Ukraine on 26 November 2010 and has been in effect, as has the Protocol on the Provision of Information on the Total Number of Personnel and Basic Armed Forces of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, which the parties had previously been unable to sign since 1998. Next question from the deputy faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”: “How is the process of inventory of land, water and infrastructure transferred to the temporary use of the Black Sea fleet of Russia? The definition of the market value of the lease and its design according to the requirements of Ukrainian legislation.” So very briefly, I'm going to say that for today, out of the 375 land plots that are in use of the Black Sea fleet, the parties have practically agreed on the results of the inventory by.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! I think you finish this question, Constantine Ivanovich, and then we'll move on to questions from the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u4	Inventory of immovable property located in these areas has been initiated. The parties also discussed the possibility of returning separate areas and properties to Ukraine. It should be noted that the definition of the market value of leases will take place after the completion of the inventory process and the processing of results according to Ukrainian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a question to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Elina Shishkin, please, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u6	Please give the floor to colleague Taran-Terreen Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u7	Victor Terrence, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, as I understand it, the position of the Ministry is clear enough. You think Ukraine's prospects in Europe, in the European Union, because they are incomparably higher than in Russia's pensions, wages and we appreciate your position, and we thank you for that. On the other hand, leaders of various departments, such as Petnicek, Deputy Minister of Economics, Valerius Muntián, Deputy Minister of Economics and others, can be counted, expressed completely diametrically opposite positions because of what we have heard today. So the question is very simple. Is there no coordination between management? Will all these actions, to what extent, continue to weaken Ukraine’s position? Because if there is no single position, Ukraine will also be a weak player. And how can we finally get out of this situation here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u9	Thank you for asking. I think the answer lies in the plane of what I have already pointed out about the interests of our state to maintain the level of economic interaction with Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus, which is already achieved today and which is actually beyond the scope of our trade and economic ties in the European Union. We see the perspective of our economy, of course, in a deeper area of free trade with the European Union. But in the coming years, and we'll expect it in the long run, the market of Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus is fundamentally important to us in terms of security, both of the interests of the state and of every citizen of that state. That is why we consider it important to have a dialogue with the Customs Union in order to preserve the generally favourable conditions that exist in this trade today. As I've explained, there are a lot of issues here, not as political as important, but as technical and economical as it is that require serious processing at different levels. As for Ukraine's principled position on the future of its integration aspirations, it is enshrined in the Ukrainian Law on Internal and Foreign Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u10	Vladimir Stretović, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u11	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian Democratic Union. Dear Constantine Ivanovich, taking advantage of the opportunity that you are on the rostrum right now, I would like to get an answer from you, why is our Ministry of Foreign Affairs silent about the situation with Ukrainian civil society organizations, the Ukrainian library in Russia? There are political seals, public voices, public organizations, but the official arm of the state, which is our external political authority, is somehow silent about this. I can imagine for a moment that some similar situation happened to the Russian organization in Ukraine, which would have made a noise to their services, or, for example, to the Polish organization, which our neighbours would have claimed had such steps been taken. Tell me if it's an MMS underdevelopment or if it's a conscious position not to hurt anyone's interests or cause harm to the common cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u12	The function and role of any state's diplomatic service is to solve the issues as much as possible, not to use the sensitive moments that arise in relations with other states or within other states to demonstrate their commitment to such protection. We're working specifically in several directions with Russia in Moscow. One of these is the expansion, of course, of the cultural possibilities, to satisfy the cultural and educational opportunities of our fellow countrymen both inside and outside the capital. I'm not going to make it. We've already had our hearings on this. There's only one thing I can say. This question is under constant control. Meetings needed to solve problems are held on a regular basis, both with the leadership of the Russian state and with the leadership of the city of Moscow. I've explained earlier that there are certain internal challenges that the Ukrainian community must solve as such. We provide support to the Ukrainian community in the context of the need for self-organization. Just as we do not want anyone to come to the public organizations registered in Ukraine, either from embassies or from elsewhere, from other capitals, and tell them what to do, so perhaps we should give our fellow countrymen the best way to protect their rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u13	Valerius Baranov, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u14	I give the word to Zarubin Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u15	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u16	Dear Constantine Ivanovich! We know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing a lot to ensure that our foreign political representations, our embassies, are in a position to perform their functions. In this case, I'm not taking a meaningful, but a formal or, let's say, technical side. It's the construction of the embassies, just to make the houses attractive. You don't understand that the country is often viewed by where it is invited: either it's a rented apartment, or it's a serious house, something that is owned by Ukraine and will forever remain the property of Ukraine, the price at which it goes up. In this regard, I have a specific question: Where are the most pressing questions now about the construction of those embassies, those houses outside Ukraine? What's the situation with the embassy in Tbilisi that's about to be upgraded? That's a specific question, very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the expansion of the diplomatic service requires serious costs, but this is the face of our state, and then I hope that the support of the MPs in allocating the necessary funds to ensure that the network of our diplomatic representations does not even expand as much -- we are already sufficiently represented -- is how much in the key directions we have the infrastructure that corresponds to our own desire for how we will be perceived in the network. Today, there are several objects that I believe require either immediate construction or acquisition. One of them is the home of the former Embassy of Lithuania in Warsaw, where all the possibilities are coming up, if we can find the funds, to have a prestigious building right in the capital of one of our major partner states. Another urgent need is Romania, where we just have to find these possibilities. There's a lot of money going on in Tbilisi. Of course, they simply need to be accelerated. We have several areas, well, especially in Azerbaijan, that require, of course, more substantial costs. We hope to find them next year. I would also like to point out that a whole series of buildings that have been purchased before are now in need of repairs, both in some cases capital and more superficial. This is also a question that we constantly care about and look forward to your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u18	Litwinov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u19	Vladimir Litvinov, Party of Regions. On April 19, this year Russian Defence Minister Serdukov stated that the Russian side is planning to purchase a large number of AN-70 and AN-124, Russian aircraft. How much does this correspond to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u20	Well, first of all, I'd like to point out that our cooperation with Russia in the aviation sector is gaining, taking turns, and in the field of transport aviation, there are the biggest prospects. After years of searching for alternatives to the "AN-70" project, the Russian Federation Armed Forces have returned to the realization that there really is no such alternative. As you know, well, if you don't know, I'd like to say that there's a job going on right now to fully digitize this plane, to make it perfectly suited to today's requirements. They're interested in both Ukraine and the Russian Federation. There is also no alternative to our AN-124s, and we also need to upgrade them. But I would like to point out that this big project on one side on AN-124 requires substantial investment. But the need for such an airplane is enormous today. With regard to the possible volume of the "AN-70" aircraft, it's essentially 60 cars. Given the total cost of this aircraft, you can imagine how important this will be to the future of our aviation industry. The issue of ensuring effective interaction and industrial cooperation in the aviation sector is a priority of our bilateral relations with Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u21	Liczuk, please. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u22	Vladimir Liczuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Constantine Ivanovich, there is now much to be heard about the excessively rapid increase in bilateral trade with Russia. Could you illustrate this in specific examples? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u23	I've already given figures on the total volume of our trade. But what I would like to stress. First, we're changing or, let's say, expanding the geography of our relationship. Recently, the governor of the Novosibirian region visited Ukraine. Already the level of our trade, according to his estimates, with Ukraine's industrial enterprises, is above half a billion dollars and has a steep trend towards growth. That is why a direct flight from Kiev to Novosibirsk is organized today. This is a testimony to the fact that there are real prerequisites for expanding our specific interaction. I would also like to highlight another important point. In our deliveries to Russia, the main article was machine-building, which accounted for more than 28 percent of the total amount of Ukrainian exports to the Russian Federation, it must be realized that this is a very important component of thousands and thousands of jobs, where they have a huge need. In general, if we speak in most commodity positions other than normally energy carriers, our Ukrainian exports are largely imported with Russia, especially by food of 3.7 times, by machine-building products of 3.4 times, by metallurgical products of 2.1 times.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u24	Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u25	Basil Krawczuk, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". I give the floor to my colleague, Helen Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u26	Olena Bondarenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u27	Olena Bondarenko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland. Dear Constantine Ivanovich, why do you think the Russian side does not comply with the terms of the free trade agreement that we signed back in 2003. Ukraine is implementing this treaty, and Russia has removed 203 items from the product nomenclature? And the next. What steps has the Ukrainian side taken to comply with this treaty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. This is an extremely important area of our interests, which is why Ukraine is actively engaged in two-way negotiations. First, the mutual total rejection of removals and the conclusion of agreements, including within the SND, on creating a free trade zone that is already more broadly legal on a modern basis, has addressed all issues of free access to the Russian market for our goods. As I have pointed out, today the issue in this area is complicated by the negotiation process between the three States members of the customs union, which also addresses the issue of the distribution of existing restrictions throughout the territory of the member states of the customs union. So it's fundamentally important for us to list these constraints, if it does remain, it's been minimised and it would actually meet those, let's say, trade-economic factors that arise as arguments for the application of these restrictions. To our conviction, there are virtually no such factors to this day, or perhaps the reasoning behind their support is insufficient. But this is again a matter of both political and economic and technical, where our experts regularly hold consultations, negotiations, and we insist on our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u29	Alexander Skibinetsky, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u31	Andrew School, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u32	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'm on a point. I hope you're aware, because you've remembered well here, I fully support the initiative to expand our embassy in Warsaw. But what measures did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs take, and did you personally or did you discuss, or did you have a discussion with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Poland, Radoslav Sikorsky, on the question of the likely acceptance in the Seima of the Republic of Poland of the statement regarding the veneration of the Volinian tragedy, "volinian differences" as it is called? I'd like to know if there's a working group in the Ministry? Because we've been working our time to turn this tragic page of our history together. But I'm just curious about the state of today's affairs that you personally made as the minister of the ministry, and what plans are being prepared? Because the Supreme Council will respond accordingly. But without the reaction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it will be difficult for us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. It's important, and of course we can't leave out any intention that could lead to a deterioration of the atmosphere in our relationship with our strategic partner, our neighbour country, with a country that consistently supports Ukraine's Euro-integration aspirations. This does not mean, of course, that we avoid complex issues, we monitor the internal political factors in Poland that affect the consideration of this issue in the Seima of the Republic of Poland. This is a question that I myself have discussed with my colleague Sikorsky, and we have quite a few dialogues at different sites. We have many subjects and questions that we need to resolve and where mutual support is fundamentally important. This element is the same as where our Polish colleagues, first of all the Polish MPs, need to show consideration and understanding that unthinkable actions can cause such harm to relations not just between governments, but between the peoples of the two states, that no internal political pianist reasoning can justify them. So we're not just working with the government, we're not just working with the government, we're working through our embassy, we're working through other channels with members of the Polish Fair to avoid the unwarranted, from our point of view, a tightening of relationships where we've already turned the page of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u34	Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u35	Please give the floor to Deputy Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u36	Jaroslav Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u37	Jaroslav Kenzier, "To Ukraine!".. Constantine Ivanovich, yesterday our Supreme Council made a "historic" decision in the paws, defining the use of the red flag, the Soviet flag, whatever you want to call it. Of course, basic logic suggests that Ukraine is not a successor to the Soviet Union. Ukraine cannot, as it were, mark this date with this symbol. It has its national symbolism today. For some reason, the Baltic States did not come up with the mark of victory in World War II in a way that Ukraine did. We have left, Constantine Ivanovich, all 260 deputies who voted yesterday for this decision to wear steel hats and steel galliffs. And you, by the way, including as a member of this team.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u38	Thank you. Of course, thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u39	Well, I'll just answer very briefly. Which is very, very short for me to answer. At the embassies of Ukraine abroad, no one, to the extreme extent, plans to hang red flags. At the embassies of Ukraine, only the State Flag of Ukraine will hang abroad. What is being decided in the middle of the country is to be decided here in this room according to the political debate that is taking place among the political forces. Of course, the state symbol that we're dating in the international arena, it's one and the other, I don't think anyone in this room is suggesting hanging.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u40	Yes, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you for your answer and hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also have two flags on the day of the Great Victory – the flag of Ukraine and the flag of the European Union, the same as that of the victorious countries. And now let me ask you a question. A year ago, during a meeting between the presidents of Ukraine and Russia, Janukovicz and Medvedev promised to raise questions about the presence of Ukrainian and Russian television channels, respectively, on the airs of friendly countries. We have an expansion of Russian television channels, but no Ukrainian television channels are yet available on Russian cable networks. And there is absolutely no information about Ukraine. What is going on is the negotiation of the presence of the Ukrainian television channel, one on Russian air. That's the first question. And the second. The Supreme Council adopted a decision by a majority of the votes initiated by the Committee on European Integration, Boris Tarasyuk, on visa support, visa free, free visas for Ukrainian citizens, including. Your forecast when this will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u42	Well, first of all, thank you for both. They are very important. I have to say that when I was an ambassador to Moscow, Ukrainian channels were present. Maybe not all over Russia, but that's what we're working on. This is, they say, a question, well, I'm not as big an expert as you are when TV channels want to get their share, but from a political point of view, we're doing our best right now to solve this issue through interstate channels. With regard to visas, groups of visa issues, you know that last year we agreed for the first time on the real parameters of our relationship to achieve a visa-free regime for all Ukrainian citizens. This plan, as well as the internal plan we have developed, is now being implemented consistently. There's a part that requires a pretty substantial amount of money, because you have to create an automated system that will operate in real-time cross-section control, and you need biometric passports and a lot more. All of this is being done consistently. Again, we are setting an ambitious goal of going as far as we can this year. And with regard to our partners, we insist that this plan of action is based on the long - term nature of this effort. At the last meeting with a group of friends I had, 12 foreign ministers of the European Union, support was given to move away from this formula. And once we're ready, we'll do our part, we'll get to the real discussion already.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u43	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u44	Just a minute. I would like to say that we are not the sequels to the Soviet Union when we go back to the previous question. But we're law-abiding. Because they're different things. Russia called itself a continuum in the 1990s. We don't go on. But just as in international law it is defined, just like the countries of the former Yugoslavia, they are all legal successors in terms of the opportunity to claim certain rights and opportunities. But this, again, means one thing. I just made it clear. That we will base our policies according to what will be adopted primarily in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u45	Uljana Mistpane, faction "BUT" - "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u46	Please pass the word to a colleague of Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u47	Paul Unguryan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear Constantine Ivanovich! I've been asking you a question that we've been doing with you for a long time. The question of our sad road "Odessa-Rani" through Palanca's populace, which enters the territory of the Republic of Moldova. For many years, we will soon celebrate the Jubilee, as this question is not resolved. Clearly, the situation in the neighboring republic is not entirely balanced. And much depends on it. But still, at a distance of seven miles [7 km], there are 4 overseas customs posts, and this is constantly passed by our people who are actually traveling from Ukraine to Ukraine. Because this is the only road connecting Odessa and Bessarabia. What is going on in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u49	Thank you so much for asking. It's a question that I, I can say here without diplomacy, have made hard contact with my colleague when he was in Kiev several times. We're actually thinking that this is just a natural first step so that we can go together to discuss the possibilities that exist in both the commercial and economic spheres and in many others where the Moldovan side is interested. Our position is very clear and I think we all understand. This is a commitment from the Moldovan side that they had to make many years ago, 10 years or 12. And any delay, any argument, they're not being taken by the Ukrainian side today. We're starting to think that right after the local elections in Moldova we have to have, I think, a much deeper discussion at the intergovernmental level, let's say at the level of foreign ministers, to define the whole complex of our relationships. And it is clear that this question will be clearly set in the context of our future relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u50	And the last question of Kirilo Kulikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Minister! I have one question, because it's not just for you, it's a question for all the authorities. What's happening today, but what's happening right now in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is the creation of a public council. We know that a public council has been set up to implement the government's decree of 14 November last year to involve the public in the decision-making of government authorities. But it did. That the public council was created by the representatives of the Sunday Adelaide sect. Today, this trend is taking place in many public councils. This attempt was made in the creation of a public council in Kiev, which is the influence of the sect on the state authorities. The cult is already in power. I saw Adeleja's case closed, tried.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u52	Thank you so much for asking. It is, indeed, relevant. The question? On the one hand, the Cabinet of Ministers, in taking a decision, has assumed that it is necessary to provide maximum opportunities for public organizations, for those who are really interested in the government's activities to self-organize themselves, to create, without interference by the government or its representatives, a structure that gives or sounds the real concern of society. As always, or let's say not as usual, but as often as it happens, the more democracy, the more creative people there are trying to use the tools of democracy to advance their own interests. We are currently working, to the extreme extent in the ministry, on the formula that would allow the creation of public councils to actually apply some sort of qualification parameters that would not allow them to define so much and not in any way affect the political orientation of those or other representatives who would enter, but would require that they were to the extreme extent aware of the essence of the question, that they might be qualified to have a discussion, and that advice would be useful. So this question, I think, in this case I can speak only for myself and for my ministry, but I think my colleagues support it. We need to make the necessary adjustments so that, on the one hand, we can preserve a democratic character, allow society to influence power, but on the other hand, so that this influence is more or less professional and qualified.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u53	Thank you, Constantine Ivanovich, thank you. "A year of questions to the government" was a success. Thank you. Thank you to the cabinet members who participated in the "hour of questions to the government." [[Applause]] Dear National MPs, according to the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make parliamentary inquiries. With your permission, I'm going to call in the MPs. We also have two national deputies who are dissatisfied with the answers to parliamentary questions. So after that, we will consider their claims. No objections? We will continue to act in harmony with the plan. Ladies and gentlemen of the National People's Party, there have been questions from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Gennady Zadirk to the President of Ukraine on the immediate settlement of the issue of the return to the community of the village of Novoszilka of the Viszgrad district of Kyiv region, about 600 hectares of land of stock, which was transferred to the former head of the High City District Administration, Anatoly Olshanski, without the consent of the session of the Novosilk village council, to the private property of Ukrainian citizens, who became all but not residents of the village of Novosilka. I'm voting on a motion to support the MP's request by Hennady Zadir. [[11:12:10]] For-160. Request supported. I now put to the vote a proposal that requires 226 votes, at least, to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:12:38]] For 245 Decision taken. Eugene Kzarykov to the President of Ukraine for the establishment of an investigation commission for the bankruptcy of Black Sea shipping and for the involvement of guilty persons in criminal responsibility, as well as for the investigation of Leonid Krawczuk's involvement. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:13:15]] For-34 Request not supported. Olega Lalashka to the President of Ukraine on the acquisition and furniture of a quartet in London for 220 million euros by System Capital Management, which belongs to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Rinat Ahmetov, the inclusion in the list of offshore zones in Panama, Cyprus and other offshore areas, as well as the use of measures aimed at halting the withdrawal from Ukraine of billions of dollars and reducing tax burden on Ukrainian citizens and entrepreneurs. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:14:04]] For-12. Request not supported. Vadim Grivkovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the annulment of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 529 of May 30, 2009. Valeria Behwazza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the use of urgent measures aimed at preserving the site of the National Museum of History of the Great War of 1941-1945 by the Central Museum of the State Border Service. Valeria Calchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in the amount of subsidies directed to the Kirovograd region. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the problems of the Kirovograd bourgeois complex. Valerija Suškević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Tax Code and the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011 on the introduction of a mechanism for compensation for loss of income in connection with the abolition of the transport assembly and the increase in excise duty rates for natural persons. Vassil Wooden to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abuse of land legislation by the head of the Podvolocchid Regional State Administration of the Terrapil region, Vitali Sum. Basil Wooden to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate financing of the repair of the Ternopil, Lviv, Ivano-Frankiv and Zakarpati highways. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the cessation of anti-national and illegal activities of Kharkiv officials that promote the propaganda of neo-Nazi ideology. Victor Matchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on providing information on the actual implementation of article 2 of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the whereabouts of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Vladimir Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for insufficient power to consumers of the villages of Buzov, Gurovščina Kyivo-Svetoshin region of the Kyiv region and adjacent garden societies. Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the grounds that, under the "Harkovi Agreements", President Viktor Yanukovic and the Party of Regions have actually committed Sevastopol to life-long use of the Russian Federation for allegedly cheap gas, but the cost of gas for the population under the absolute authority of the "regions" has already been raised twice, the Black Sea fleet is increasing its debts to Ukraine, and the authorities are in no way responding to the gross violation of interstate agreements by the Russian Federation, which is a sign of a national betrayal in the area of economic security of Ukraine. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of financing of the construction of the mortgage credit for young families. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to abolish funding for the 1,000-year period of the establishment of the Sofia Council and the carrying out of anti-accident and rehabilitation work in the Andrian Church, when 14 million bracelets can be considered as lobbying the interests of the Moscow Patriarchate and the deliberate destruction of the National Monuments of History, the Sofia Council and the Andrian Church. Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on planned actions and measures in the area of targeted compensation to vulnerable populations for costs incurred in connection with price increases and tariffs. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in September 2011 on the status of implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 26 February 2010 on urgent measures to overcome poverty in part of the development of the National Programme on Poverty Reduction and Prevention in Ukraine for 2010-2015. Constantine Bondaeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the cessation of violations of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine by the head of the Kiev-Svetošina District Public Administration, Mikhail Zaslavski, and his unlawful intervention in the work of local self-government bodies. Constantine Bondarev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Emergency Situations of Ukraine for the examination of the facts of the theft of state funds and the corruption of the directors of the structural units of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Ukraine during the purchase of the Ka-226 helicopter and two sets of shovels of a carry-on rifle for Mi-8 helicopters totalling more than 30 million bracelets. Mikoli Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the housing of the Kyiv and Basilkov garrisons of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the promotion of employment and the use of measures to create jobs for the rural population. Mikoli Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution to the problem of building a family-type group for young specialists – medical workers in the village of the town-type Wide Dnipropetrovsk district. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on State control over prices and services provided by private notaries. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets of Ukraine on non-payment by Oranta National Stock Insurance Company under contracts of long-term insurance of the former Ukradzhdrzech. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the danger of deterioration and the destruction of the world-renowned architectural monument Andrijavska Church in connection with the cessation of counter-rescue repairs and the use of urgent measures to restore funding in the current year [[Carpupuk, Potpuchuk and others]] Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an in-depth review of the restructuring of customs departments in the Zakarpat region, taking into account the specificities of individual areas. Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent assistance in moving away from the area of activation of the shift process in the village of Black Tis Rahiv district of the Zacarpathian district of the Manilec family. Alexander Crnowolka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice-Prime Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Regional Development and Housing of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Head, the head of the Kiev City State Administration on the need to accelerate the pace of construction of the second Kurenov-Red Army subway line in Kiev towards the housing force Teremka, the beginning of the construction of the sub-Libyan-Vygur line of the capital city of Kiev towards the Triojevih residential area, and the development of documentation for the construction of the five-way line of the city of Kyiv. Paul Mouchcan to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal eviction of Dnipro's state specialized literature from occupied premises. Sergija Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of forced bankruptcy of the municipal enterprise Orżica Vodkokanal of the Region of Poltava by decision-making by government authorities to control and deprive the population of the village of drinking water. Grinevetsky's Sergey to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on financial support for creative groups that have academic status. [[theatres]] Jurya Litvina to Prime Minister of Ukraine to assist in the completion of the construction of the Galician District Hospital of Ivano-Frankov. Jurya Litvina to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the reconstruction of the dormitory of the public education school of social rehabilitation in Kharkiv. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the housing and utility facility, which in 2009 won the competitive selection of investment and innovation energy conservation projects, but is not funded for two years. [[Komara, Mankovsky, Tsurka]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of current legislation in the procurement of services for children living in the Volin region and in the Plain region. [[Potty, koshin, and others. Total 19 deputies]] Vladimir Leschchenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the procedure for paying the value of the State's trust in housing. Valerija Baranov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the situation that has arisen with the repayment of arrears on salary to former employees of the Berdjan State Department of Glasswokno. Mikoli Shershuna to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the response of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to a parliamentary request for State support to maintain and ensure the effective functioning of the internal engineering infrastructure of meliorrhial systems in the Plains region. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the amount of subsidies from the state budget to the local budgets of the Chernigiv region for construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of streets and roads of municipal property in the settlements. Gregory Omelchenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine about the inappropriate response to the parliamentary appeal about the inadmissibility of pressure on journalists of the specialized publication Fito, to prevent their professional activity in connection with the journalistic investigation of corruption in the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. Valerija Baranova to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine to bring about the proper state of the roads of municipal property in Zaporozhye. Group of People's Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, the State Agency for Water Resources of Ukraine, the State Architectural and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, the Kyiv Regional Government Administration, the Kyiv District Council, the Kyiv District Regional State Administration of Kiev, the Kyiv Regional Regional District Administration, the Kyiv District Branch and the Kyiv Regional Association of Plants and Massives on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of members of the Civil Service Association of the People's Republic of China 2009 on the violation of land, urban and environmental legislation in the area of the Ukraine's provincial government. [[Plotnik, Prutnik, and others. Total 4 deputies]] Vadim Grivkovski to Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, for the establishment of sources of funding and the impact of the activities of "No Nuclear Winter" on Ukraine's energy security and independence. Victor Matchuk to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for information on the meeting of Ambassador of Ukraine in Russia with Ambassador William Taylor of the United States of America in January 2009. Eugene Goodyak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the illegal actions of citizen Valery Prudnikov in relation to citizen Alexander Redeuce. Edouard Prutnik to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine scrutinizes the appeal of residents of the villages of Tereshkovka and Schniakovk of the region of Njižin in connection with the need to finance and complete the construction of an underwater pipeline up to four kilometres long. Mikoli Shershun to the head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk about failure to respond to the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting in the parliamentary address regarding the "Brezne" Teleradio company in the Plains region. Valentina Matvieva to the head of the High Council of Justice for violations committed by the judicial authorities during the examination of the defendant's claim to the city of Balaklia Kharkiv district of Love Aksion on the inheritance of land. Valery Kelestin to the head of the High Council of Justice, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine regarding the non-application of measures to address the misconduct of the Head of the Galician District Court of Ivano-Frankiv District of Vasil Klub and the existence of grounds for misconduct in disciplinary conduct. Alexander Blackwolf to the Head of the Public Service for Medical and Drug Control on the publication of the results of the examination of numerous complaints about non-quality pharmaceuticals for the production of the Society with limited responsibility of the Green Planet of the Earth and the Convalia, as well as the publication of the results of the verification of compliance with the licensing requirements of the Green Planet Society's Green Planet plant, the city of Walka Kharkiv Region, and the use of measures to prevent the further implementation of inadequacies and those that could harm the lives and health of citizens of the medical facilities and bring to the responsibility of those responsible for the organization of the network for the sale of inefficient and dangerous medical products. Sergey Greeneweckov to head the Ukrainian State Road Service for the capital repair of the Limanska - Split Road in the Odessa region. Andrija School to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate response of the State Architectural Control Inspectorate in the Lviv region to the construction offences. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the Cable Company and the elimination of violations of the current legislation in its activities. Olega Lalashka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the lack of response to the election of Mogilov-Podilski Vinnitské region by the citizen of the Republic of Moldova, Peter Brokuk, and the need for a criminal offence based on his falsification of documents during the submission to the territorial electoral commission of knowingly false information about his nationality. Sergei Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the Protection of the Rights of the Resident of Lubna Poltava Region, Director of the Society with Limited Responsibility of the "Strech" of Mikola Taranenka, and for the Legal Assessment of the Action of the Officials of the Executive Authorities and the Law Enforcement Authorities who Contribute to Lawlessness. Andrew School to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of cultural heritage legislation during the construction of a multistory residential building on the street of General Chuprinka 3 in Lviv. Victor Olijnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the beating of residents of the town of Zastavan Cherniewecka region by the head of the Zastavnov district government administration, Michael Boychuk, and members of his family. Vladimir Arjev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inactivity of police officers regarding the investigation of the circumstances of the accident by the former senior district inspector of the right - hand district office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, Alexander Dushina. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to fulfil the obligations under the terms of privatization, the owner of the unfinished construction of the administrative corps of the Institute of Agriculture, Polissi, in the territory of the Singapore Rural Community of the Corstomir Region. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Legal Protection, Head of the High Judicial Council, Head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Justice for Civil and Criminal Matters, Judgeship of the High Court of Justice of Ukraine on Civil and Criminal Procedures, Judge of the Russian Federation of Michael Borodin, who, contrary to article 4 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 17 and 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Civility of Ukraine and articles 51 and 107 of the Ukrainian Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges, is the subject of criminal justice by the State of Ukraine. Helen Schustik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to bring the head of the Torez City Court to justice Alexander Pushin for a road accident that resulted in the death of 18-year-old Alina Lichtanska. Peter Simonnck to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate response of the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Cherka district to the decision of the Court to renew the work of the citizen Love Miroshnichenko, to pay her debts on salary during the forced leave and other payments. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inappropriate examination of three parliamentary appeals concerning the distribution of false information through the media and the Internet to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the content of the Order on the Attraction as charged by Yulia Timoshenko. Jury Treguchev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on speeding up the investigation of a criminal case violated by a traffic accident. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the examination of the gross violation by the authorities of Ukrainian constitutional rights for free education and free choice of work expressed in the acquisition of citizens who have been trained on a free basis, the cost of teaching in public and municipal educational institutions and the coercion to do certain work. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the beating and torture of four fishermen by the head of the Zastavan district government administration, Michael Boychuk. [[Grigorovich, Parubius, Karpuk and others]] Irina Herashchenko and Olga Gerasimük to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration regarding the illegal presence of unknowns in the premises of the Bookstore "Sivo" on the street of the Red Army, 6A. Valentina Matvieva to the head of the Zitomir district administration, the Prosecutor of the Žitomir district for the protection of the rights and interests of residents of the multi-floor association of the Korosten educational and manufacturing company UTOS of the Žitomir region. People's Deputies' Groups, to the State Architecture and Building Control Inspectorate in Kiev on the Exercising of the Certified Xeropsy of the Permit of May 20, 2008, issued by the State Architectural and Building Control Inspectorate of Kiev. [[Bodnar, Matvienka, Chernobyl]] [[Bodnar, Matvienko, Cnerovil]] Thus, honourable colleagues, 106 parliamentary requests have been made, including one request addressed to the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! At the same time, we have not completed our consideration of the matter of parliamentary questions. National MP Yuri Karmazin made appropriate submissions and documents of dissatisfaction to the MP’s request. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I must announce this parliamentary request, then make a statement within three minutes by a national MP who is dissatisfied with the answer. And if he raises the issue of discussing the problem, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to take a decision of 226 votes. If not, we simply accept the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u54	226 votes, yes. In addition, he was dissatisfied with the reply to the MP’s request and with Mikola Tomenko. So in the coming order, I'm now going to answer the MP's request that Yuri Carmazin received. Yes, I will read the answer to only the Prime Minister of Ukraine's request, because this was a request for many addressees. "Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, having considered your request, announced at the meeting of the Supreme Council on 17 December 2010, for the recalculation of pensions for working pensioners, I report. Subparagraphs 9, 10 of section III of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2008 and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine, have been amended to articles 40 and 42 of the Ukrainian Act on the general government pension insurance and it has been settled that the salary rate should be set aside for an average of one person in Ukraine as a whole, from which insurance contributions have been paid and pension recalculations have been ordered for the period following the appointment of the previous pension. [[income]] The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has declared unconstitutional the provisions of section III, paragraph 35, of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2008 and the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine in view of the lack of established practice to date in the application of the rules of legislation which have been amended by rules which were later declared unconstitutional, created a legal coalition that called for the need to settle the issue at the legislative level. The Government has submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on legislative measures to ensure the reform of the pension system, which, inter alia, is proposed to address the issue of the recalculation of pensions to persons who continue to work after the appointment of pensions. With respect, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Azarov." Yuri Anatolyevich, please the essence of your dissatisfaction with the answer. Please, in three minutes, you have the right to an exterminator.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u55	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a question that applies to all citizens. The question is absolutely unpolitical. I am addressing representatives of all political factions who receive the same letters. I'm informing you that the courts are now overwhelmed by such lawsuits. From this high rostrum, I would like to thank Mr. Ivanovni Karpachov for violating the exercise of human rights, Prime Minister Ivanovni Karpachov, for bringing urgent measures to the Prime Minister to ensure that citizens are entitled to pensions according to current legislation. Even the Justice Department, which reviewed the application, confirmed the legal validity of the requirements of my and the Human Rights Commissioner regarding the need for an immediate renewal of pension rights for higher earnings. Thus, a letter signed by the Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Deputy Director of the Pension Fund has proved to be superior, honourable national MPs, from the Constitution and from the valid laws that we are enacting with you. And I say, "Well, what's the point of adopting laws if they're not being implemented?" In 2009, the Attorney General's Office found the courage to protest this. What did she say, the Attorney General? They sent the Attorney General's office. That's all they're saying is, sorry, it's not a legal act. Of course, could there be a letter from two law enforcement officials that denies the Constitution deny the laws? Obviously it can't be. Because of this, honourable national MPs, can I be pleased with myself or with someone from the Party of Regions or with the Communist Party or with our Ukraine or with the BUT Block or the Fatherland or the Lithuanian Party or the Reforms? Can anyone be content to receive such discounts today when the law is not being enforced? We have the Act, adopted on January 19, 2010, on mandatory government pension insurance, number 4694 excludes any arbitrary interpretation by the authorities. Again is my appeal, again is the appeal of the Commissioner of Human Rights, and there is no response, Vladimir Mikhailovich. That's because maybe we don't have to produce laws, maybe we should ask the Attorney General of Ukraine Pshonka to have Viktor Pavlovich break the criminal case in this case, after the fact that the powers of officials who have crossed the border have become over the Constitution have become over the law. That's what I'm asking you people to do. And please support me with your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 226, paragraph 2, a member has the right to ask questions about his request or to make such a proposal at the signatures of 90 deputies. In this case, the MP would like to discuss the matter, so I will put to the vote his proposal to discuss the MP's question. Please vote. [[11:41:50]] For-97 The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues, 90 signatures or 226 votes. I read, "In accordance with the decision," para. 3, "In accordance with a decision of the Supreme Council, accepted by the People's Chamber, which is the initiator of the parliamentary request, and if such a proposal is supported by at least one fifth of the Supreme Council's constitutional composition, the signatures of the People's Deputies' Council at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are being discussed in response to a parliamentary request. In this case, we've gone after part of the Supreme Council Decision. The decision is taken only in 226 votes, Yuri Anatolyevich. That's the situation. Sadly, we did not support it. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, as a result of the discussion, I think that we will again address the matter in the form of a parliamentary request. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikola Tomenko, asked the President of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, for the introduction of the 5-8 classes of total control testing of four subjects and in fact forcing the collection of funds from the parents to carry out this test. The nation’s deputy received a late reply, and he was not satisfied with that reply. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, there's been a paradoxical situation that I'd like to inform you about. And I hope that the President will respond, although late, and the prosecutor's office will respond in accordance with current legislation. After we began to talk about the educational affair here in the session hall, and a few months before the end of the school year, parents, students, and teachers told us that there would be 4 additional control jobs, and then suddenly in the Kharkiv publication, they started printing brochures, and then they definitely started collecting 60-70 dollars from each of their parents, and it came under our pressure to explain that, well, it's kind of a control job, teachers check them out, the brochures could not be bought, although you've already taken the money, and no one is responsible for it at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the prosecution, who has withdrawn from this request, must investigate, and the President must respond to this story, because we have created a precedent for the first time that officials are not responsible for. Once again, I have a specific question: who in the Ministry of Education made a decision at the end of the school year to change the curriculum and introduce 4 subjects for control work? I have a question: Who made the decision to print a million - dollar brochure in the Kharkiv publication? I have a question that I want to hear the answer to. Who carried out the expertise of hundreds of thousands of schoolchildren who would submit these questions and answers? I have a question: Who directed teachers to raise money from their parents during their working hours, and where did the money go? And I have a question: who's going to pay the teachers that they're going to do four more checks and check these jobs? So if the Ministry made this mistake, organized this affair, and the Prosecutor's Office and the President take care of each other, then at the very least it would be necessary to apologize to the students, to pay the money back to the parents, and to pay the teachers for the job, because it's an extra burden. So once again, I demand to investigate this affair, because it's about making tens of millions of dollars out of parents in the form of a new government order that wasn't discussed in a professional environment that wasn't introduced in the face of common sense at the end of the academic year. Such affairs require responsibility for both the minister and the officials. And once again, I hope that the President's Administration will carry out its duty and pass this address on to the President, and although we will be late to hear the position of head of state and the position of the Prosecutor's Office so as not to allow abuse of schoolchildren, parents and teachers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, this order of work is still being proposed. We have two factions calling for a 30 - minute recess or a statement. Before I give you the right to make a statement, I'm going to make one announcement. May I have your attention, fellow officers? This is due to the fact that we have numerous delegations who are invited to work in many parliamentary, European regional, international entities. At the same time, in the last period, it has become a "good" in the paws of tradition that national MPs want, fight, fight to get into one or the other delegations and then completely refuse to participate in those delegations. That's what's happening. Don't worry. Listen to what you're told. This is the case, distinguished national MPs. In the process of organizing a parliamentary delegation's trip to set up the Euronest meeting. So I'm going to make an appropriate announcement. The leaders of the factions, the national deputies, please respond accordingly. The meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Union, the Eastern Neighbours, will be held in Brussels on 2 and 3 May. [[Kingdom of Belgium]] [[EURONEST]] I urge the people's deputies, members of the permanent delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely: Boris Tarasyuk, Valerija Baranova, Volodymyr Evening, Romana Zvarić, Spiridon Kilinkarov, Leonida Kojaru, Stepan Kurpil, Vladimir Lemzo, Lvivcken Yulia, Stushenko Alexandre, to take part in the meeting in Brussels. [[The faction of "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense"]] [[People's Party faction]] [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense"]] [[Communist faction]] [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[The faction "Clock Timoshenko – "The Fatherland"]] [[The faction "Clock Timoshenko – "The Fatherland"]] [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[The faction of Yulia Timoshenko]] At this point, only three national MPs have volunteered: Boris Tarasyuk, Roman Zvaric. I don't remember a third deputy. In case of impossibility, I would like to point out, if it is not possible to participate, that I would ask the faction to make proposals in a timely manner for the replacement of the members of the delegation. In this delegation, the funds are provided for other delegations that are defined in our work plan for this year. And if you want to just go somewhere, unfortunately, there's no money. Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" and the faction "BUT" – "Father's" – have submitted an appropriate application for a recess for consultations and statements. At the same time, representatives of these factions now agree to make a statement. The word is Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u59	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Marklessly, on a hot Friday, I will talk about the red flags today, the red flags under which the Bolsheviks destroyed 14,000 churches, shot the priests and sent them away, destroyed religion, and replaced church festivals with songs and revelries. Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, the Party of Regions, the Communists and the Block of Lithuania spit on the Constitution, spit on the Ukrainian state, and decided to raise the red flags. I am well aware that the economic policies of the state have failed, that the absence of reforms in Ukraine must be obscured. That's why a new scenario is being implemented in the last year, and at first they gave up their own security policy by declaring an incomprehensible non-block status, and then they started destroying Ukrainian language, Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian schools, and rewriting Ukrainian history. Now it is said that we will enter, not by joining the customs union, but in the near future, according to Prime Minister Putin, we will also transfer the Ukrainian bracelet to the Russian ruble. I want to remind you that there was no Presidential office in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, if you don't know. That's why I'm now addressing, first of all, the President of Ukraine. Mr. President, be the head of the Ukrainian state, make a commitment to this law. The other one. I'm addressing this so-called majority, if you don't like the Ukrainian state, if you don't like the Ukrainian people, if it's not your country, pass your Ukrainian passports, give your deputy's mandates and go where the red flags are hanging, have national dignity.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. A draft Law 7330 amending certain Ukrainian laws on insider information is being announced for consideration. [[resecond reading]] Igor Prassolov, please. What procedure? This is the second reading we're considering the law that the procedure here is. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? This is re-reading the second reading so you want to? Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u61	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The main objective, I would like to recall, is to criminalize the illicit use of insider information and to fulfil the commitments that Ukraine has previously made in the fight against so-called pre-emptive crimes, i.e. crimes that pre-money-laundering, as provided for in the “40 recommendations” of the FATF and the Council of Europe Convention against Money Laundering. The bill proposes to amend certain articles of the Code on Administrative Offences and the Penal Code, while strengthening sanctions for the abuse of insider information. The draft was sent for re-reading, re-reading and considered at a meeting of the Committee on 20 April. A total of 13 amendments are reflected in the tables for re-second reading, one being edited and the rest being taken into account. To read again, I must briefly say that it is not a matter of your time that we have more clearly defined the list of persons who will be responsible for the illegal use of insider information. And it's also an important moment. It was stronger if one could put it this way, which is exactly what insider information is and at what point insider information ceases to be. This bill is fully agreed upon, in full with the Securities and Stock Market Commission and the State Financial Monitoring Service. Therefore, distinguished colleagues, I ask for support for the decision of our committee and for the adoption of this bill on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u62	Yes, as amended, dear colleagues, I'm now in a situation where there are no adjustments. They're all accounted for, so please prepare for the vote. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on insider information. [[Registration number 7330]] Please vote. [[11:55:34]] For 255 Thank you, the law has been passed. I said it was a setup, and yesterday, when we were looking at it, I was saying that the Law Department was taking note. Well, it turns out. Please, Yuri Carmazin, the microphone, for the reasons of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u63	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just done one interesting thing by voting. I'm drawing your attention to the observation of the Chief Legal Authority. I quote: "At the same time, if Parliament adopts this draft as a law, notes to articles 163 and 9 of the Code of Administrative Violations, and articles 232 of the Criminal Code with a premium. 232 should be complemented by a shareholder. Since the attempt to identify the consummate circle of subjects has led to the fact that the articles will not be extended to shareholders. What, then, was the law for? So shareholders can break the law and so on. Like the man who worked and worked to improve the Criminal Code, I say you're doing a bad thing. And we have this, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to read you had and this has to be removed from this law version. We didn't remove it, we voted. Look at how many.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u64	Thank you. For reasons, Eugene Kzarykov, please. Well, we've already passed the law, I understand. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u65	I'd like to remind everyone whose fathers and grandfathers fought for our country against the brown plague to remind an individual of such, you know, an invisible Jacinyuk Change Front that his father taught at Chernowitz University for many years just the history of the USSR. And he must have hit a son like that on the ass, because he can today in Parliament destroy the memory of our grandfathers and the great feat that they did to make him sit in this room today with MP's integrity, and then hide here behind the guards' backs. It's not allowed on his part. And I'll tell you how to get back, not as a deputy: these things get beat up, sorry, not on the passport, but on the face.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u66	I would ask, honourable national MPs, to hold on, please pay attention, fellow Members of State, I would ask, please, let's go within the limits of the MP rules and the decency of conduct. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u67	Please repeat, Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u68	Individual actors from Odessa. So what I want to tell you is that instead of hanging red flags that you bought at the Odessa City Council, you wouldn't be taking away 6.5 million bracelets that the Odessa Region Party reduced to one-time payments to veterans. I realized that you had money in your pockets, and you decided to feed the veterans with red flags.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to stop this argument. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine is no place for political agitation here. Let's do professional work and not confuse Paska, Easter with Victory Day. Dear colleagues, I beg you, these are all mutual charges on the left and right, please stop. There's a possibility, the TV, please, on the screens, there's political agitation. All left, right, center. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to catch up on your emotions for 30 minutes. After a break, let us continue our constructive fruitful work. Thank you. It'll take up to 12 hours and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, please take your jobs. We'll continue the meeting. We are considering: the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on changing the status of confession as evidence of guilt in criminal matters]] [[Registration number 6059]] I invite you to the rostrum of the Zarubinsky bill. Prepare Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u71	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the National Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! According to statistics, Ukraine now has one of the first places in Europe to deal with the number of crimes that have been committed. At the same time, however, Ukraine has a number of references to the European Court of Human Rights. And by the way, this statistics are based on active debate by defenders, and not just by defenders, citizens, representatives of the media, one of the most common problems of torture in places of imprisonment. These statistics, which are essentially contradictory to each other, and the information provided in the media about the spread of physical and moral pressure in the police to write a so-called "voluntary confession of guilt" that a large number of people who are unjustly convicted point to the need for a thorough review of the very approach to such evidence of guilt as confession. In fact, the practice by which confession is the queen of evidence was borrowed from the methods of the Inquisition. Regrettably, it has been taken over in many cases by modern law enforcement agencies. This is because today, the application of the XIXXV methods is not just an atavism but a gross violation of human rights. However, given the plans made before law enforcement to improve the level of crime detection, voluntary confessions are still being used actively in criminal investigations. Part three of article 62 of the Constitution establishes the basic principle of permissibility of evidence, which is that the charge cannot be based on evidence obtained illegally. This thesis is also being developed in the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which requires the testimony of a suspect or accused person to be examined. However, it has not contributed to the reduction of torture and to the number of unjustly convicted persons, since it may still be the basis for the conviction of a suspect under the law. Article 74, 75 of the Ukrainian KPC. So here's the salt problem. A voluntary confession may be the basis for the accusation. This creates an opportunity, if you want, for the temptation to expose a crime to use illegal methods, which are clearly followed by confession by the accused. And it must be just one piece of evidence, and it can only join the evidence system that has already been made. The next moment. Confirmation of confession became a formality. Because it can be done with falsified evidence. In addition to protecting the rights of the unjust, the problem has a different side, the other side of the coin. Because those who are truly guilty of committing a crime may not be held accountable. Thus, impunity breeds an increase in crime and leads to disillusionment by society in the law - enforcement system. The proposed bill provides for amendments to articles 74 and 75 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which deal with the status of witnesses of the suspect and accused. It's proposed, first, to change the status of confession from evidence that is the basis of the charge of evidence that may be involved in the charge. This will allow these standards to be harmonized with the provisions of article 67 of the same codex. According to which, I quote, "No evidence for the court, the prosecutor, the investigator, and the person conducting the investigation has no pre-established power." As a result, confession cannot be the basis of an accusation. The temptation to use torture used to obtain confessions should not be overemphasized. Moreover, the very process of withdrawing your confession will allow you to ensure that your confession is of a voluntary nature. Dear colleagues, I've been familiar with this bill's work in advance of the scientific and expert management's observations. Some of these observations can certainly be accepted, but there can't be a misunderstanding that until then, I repeat, but I'm doing it on purpose, as long as it's 80, 90, I don't know, maybe 95 percent to accuse a person of making a confession. As long as this practice is defined as it is, torture will continue. And it's not because all the law enforcement officials and all the militia are sadists. It's wrong, it's unfair. Most there are honest and professional people. And because the system itself requires a distorted finding of a system of evidence. If you want, it kind of reminds me of a situation where, I don't know how now, but not so long ago, the level of work and efficiency of firefighters were determined by the number of extinguished fires. Do you understand what this means? The more fires, the more they were eliminated, the better the fire teams work. The more voluntary confessions, the easier it is to increase the number of so - called, exposed crimes, the more false, illegal methods will be applied to the accused or the suspect to give confessions or to make voluntary confessions. So I would ask my colleague to pay attention to the very idea of this bill, and if I accept it as a basis, what I would ask my colleagues to do, make suggestions in preparing for the second reading. Some of these proposals I am prepared to make as a subject of the legislative initiative also by referring to trailers or scientific expertise. But once again, I would like to urge the next to change the system of law enforcement in proving guilt. Without changing this system, we will be witnessing the shameful phenomena that the law enforcement officials will be talking about — the phenomena associated with torture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u72	Thank you. If you have any questions, please sign in. Five minutes. Verni Dubov. Behind him is Smitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u73	Dear reporter! You've been very persuasive, but you're telling me to change the system, and there's no convincing argument in the bill that you're changing the system. Everything you've talked about, everything in the law, in the Criminal Procedure Code there is. No one can force a person to speak the way he wants or change his testimony. Please. These are, as they say, ways to protect the accused or the suspect, and there's nothing wrong with that. And yours, as you say, these arguments about changing the system are unfortunately not convincing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u74	Thank you. My argument may not be convincing, but it is convincing. And if we're based on practice, and it's a criterion of truth, not a discussion, because, excuse me, they say that the debate is about truth, and it's about to die, so I'm a long way from changing the system right now. No, it won't. What's more, my dear fellow, this bill cannot change the whole system. He's changing his accent. If today's voluntary confession in most cases is the basis of the accusation and there's still some evidence to be added to it, it's, I can't say, it's wrong, it's leading to the practice that we're seeing. If what is proposed in the bill, a voluntary confession or confession is just an additional proof, an additional confirmation of those collected evidence during the investigation, then there will be no, the third time I use that word, maybe it's not very appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u75	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u76	There will be no temptation, no incentive to extort voluntary confession. Once again, the militia is not sadists, there's nothing to do, there's no point in beating confessions. Torture, in most cases, is aimed at giving the accused, the suspect, a voluntary confession. So I agree with you that this bill can't change this system -- it allows you to look at the work in the process of learning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u77	Garbage Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u78	Dear Oleg Alexanderovich, of course, I agree with this subject that you have covered in this bill, because the problem in our country itself is, and this has to be acknowledged, and this is not a single phenomenon, and this is a phenomenon that can be said to be systemic today. And of course, your legislative initiative deserves to be discussed at least and most adopted in the first reading to express our thoughts in the second reading. In this regard, I have a question. You know, it's a very, well, kind of a question that can't always be interpreted on one side, which is positive and negative. As you are referring to the question that, for example, in the United States, often law enforcement agencies in pretrial and judicial investigations, a criminal or a person who commits an offence and is attracted to an article is involved in voluntary cooperation with an organ, and thus, even in many cases, he is released from further, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u79	Thank you, Gregory Yudkomovich. I understand what you're saying. So you're asking if it can harm the person himself voluntarily to confess, thereby reducing his guilt. No, it can't hurt. It's just that the system is different. I have to repeat myself: this requires not only taking a voluntary confession, but also proving the system of other evidence that a person is guilty. If she is going on a voluntary confession, it can certainly be, for example, a basis for mitigating a judgment. I don't see any contradictions here. This is the first time. Secondly, it seems to me that we need to be more focused in this area than on the experience of the United States, because you know that the law enforcement system there is much different from the law-enforcement system of the countries of the European Union, the European countries. Well, for example, at least in what you know, I'm not moving away from the subject, but that confirms that we need to focus more on European experience.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u80	Thank you. Carmazin to ask questions, because he will.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u81	I'm on my way. Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Oleg Alexanderovich, thank you for your pain. True, I have a theoretical plan to think about: which Constitution is the best, which law is the best? And I want to give you a hint right now: the ones that are being implemented. And we don't have the Constitution or the Criminal Procedure Code and we just have the human rights authority to let you know, ask questions at the last College of the Henprocuratorium about torture and so on. You and I haven't used control powers here for another one percent. We haven't heard from anyone. And our profile committees are pretending that they don't have control powers, that they don't use them, they're going to blow everything up on the President today. And you tell me, please, how would you from parliamentary, parliamentary control apply to this, to your proposal and listen here? And let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u82	Thank you, Yuri Anatoliyovich, for being an ally because you are an ally to all wise proposals and that is the right thing to do. I think we're both allies here. As far as parliamentary control is concerned, I think that this topic goes somewhat beyond the scope of the bill, but what Parliament's control is supposed to be, of course, is. By the way, it's not just the parliament, it's also the profiling committees. And I think that if you're asking so professionally, I think that the main tool for carrying out control functions should be the committees, the main committees, in this case those committees, of course, whose head is now obviously going to want to make a co-report. I hope he supports the idea of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u83	Thank you. Now let's look at your expectations. Have a seat, please. Although the committee's decision is a little different. Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting considered a bill tabled by the Zarubinsky People's Chamber to amend the Criminal Procedure Code to change the status of confession as evidence of guilt in criminal matters. [[Registration number 6059]] The bill proposes to amend articles 73, 74 of the Criminal Procedure Code, according to which confessions of the accused may be added to the charge, rather than based on it, and the suspect and accused may at any time appeal the confession of their guilt. In the author’s view, accepting these changes will avoid such a shameful problem as the use of torture against the individuals in question and restore confidence in the law enforcement agencies. The Committee considers it necessary to note that in accordance with article 63 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the applicable rules of the Criminal Procedure Code, the right of a suspect and accused person to be free from self-discrimination is provided. Therefore, the refusal of the suspect, the accused, the defendant of giving evidence cannot be regarded as a confession or a denial of his guilt. Giving a statement and answering a question is the right, not the duty of a suspect and accused defendant. Hence, they are free to make decisions about whether to give a witness and what might change them, or to plead guilty, or to deny their guilt. What's more, they can give up testimony at any time. The law also obliges the court to conduct a full investigation, regardless of whether the charges brought against the defendant are found. In doing so, it should be noted that the testimony of the accused of confessing his guilt in the commission of a crime, given in a pretrial investigation that was not confirmed in court by other evidence, cannot be based on an indictment. Suspected, accused, defendant, and now, I stress, and today, may refuse to admit guilt that is not uncommon in court proceedings, but this is not an effective obstacle to the use of torture by law enforcement officials who are accustomed to breaking the law. Furthermore, the text of the bill does not understand what the procedural nature of the withdrawal is, what is its order, what procedural documents can be filed and who is given, or whether the defendant has the right to exercise the right of appeal. Furthermore, according to the committee, the proposed positions would have to be included in the articles of the Criminal Procedure Code, where the rights of the suspect or accused are legally established, namely, in article 43, in the 43rd with the symbol of one Criminal Procedure Code. The author proposes to amend articles 73, 74, which identify the subject matter of the accused and the suspect. In the CPC, it is necessary for the Committee to provide for rules that would allow a judge to reject any evidence or confession of a suspect or accused person if the use of violence or torture is proved in a court of law. Taking into account the committee’s decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to reject it. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u85	These are the expectations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u87	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u88	Since I have 30 seconds left, I'd like to make it up to you. I have great respect for the author of this bill. But I would like to point out that these amendments to the bill will not only break the system that is being taken care of by the distinguished national MP, namely: torture and torture that takes place during criminal proceedings. In order to change this whole system, we need to change the Criminal Procedure Code first. And I am sure that this is our direct duty. And these changes that we're talking about right now, they have absolutely no effect on what the honourable national MP was talking about, on the commission of torture. Dear colleagues, torture is a crime of its own, it is stipulated by the Criminal Code of Ukraine. And there's no way out of the provisions of articles 73, 74 of the Criminal Procedure Code where they're trying, proposing, more loyally, to make changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u89	Thank you, Victor Dmitrovich. If you have a question, write it down. Yes, please, 3 minutes Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u90	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I'd like to ask the honourable reporter to give an answer, doesn't that remind you of some of the well-known Attorney General of Vishinsky, where confession is the Queen, as they say, of evidence?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to understand what this is about? Look, I'm going to read the original edition of article 73 of the Criminal Procedure Code and the amendment they're proposing. There's no revolution here, there's nothing here, it's just being complemented by the proper regulation of the law. Listen, "the suspect's testimony is subject to review, the confession of the suspect's guilt can be based on the charge only if this confession is confirmed by the pool of evidence in the case." What is proposed? "The testimony of the suspect, including the one in which he pleads guilty, is subject to inspection." I mean, what am I leading to? That this "queen of evidence" is not being excluded from the Criminal Procedure Code, which is the problem. And we, if we're such great Democrats and we're fighting for human rights, we have to do everything we can to remove this evidence queen from the Criminal Procedure Code. That would be a revolutionary approach. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u92	Zabarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u93	Please pass the word to Vernidub Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u94	Verni Dubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u95	The honourable reporter, the problem the author of the Zarubinsky bill spoke of, the beatings, tortures and he stressed in his report that it was him that these circumstances forced him to submit his bill. It really exists: beating, forcing, torture, and so forth, it is a percentage. So I have a question for you as head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement. Is it being developed on your committee, or is there some kind of problem? And she's in another, really, torture, beating, and really that the resonance is great and a lot of such examples. And for the first time, I know, at the College of the Attorney General this year, this issue was addressed separately. Please, for this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u96	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich! I would like to say that about 2.5-3 months ago, the committee held very large-scale hearings, where it was about respecting the rights and freedoms of people in internal affairs. And it was during these committee hearings that there were numerous acts of torture and cruel conduct in internal affairs. And on the basis of all the materials that were made public during the committee hearings, the Attorney General's Office conducted that college you're talking about. Moreover, the Office of the President's system has now established an appropriate unit to monitor any violations related to torture and cruel behaviour in the activities of law enforcement agencies, which is an extremely positive result. That's what I'm telling you about the committee's control functions. It was the committee that raised that question, and I must say with great pleasure that it found a positive solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u97	Yes. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Victor Dmitrovich, I want to thank you. Because, indeed, I was present at that committee meeting that was dedicated to the prevention of torture. But that's obviously not enough. Obviously, the committee needs to use its control powers to initiate a special session here and report here from this rostrum. And then it won't be necessary, there won't be any need for a bill that our colleague, Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky, has just introduced. I'd like to ask you if you're following the events, obviously, you see the illegality of keeping Lucenko in custody. It went on completely ridiculous yesterday, and I'm not talking about the authorities who did it, they're going to give their own assessment. So in this context, how does it work when you're forced to get acquainted, that's why people blame it. Is that normal or not? Like the head of a committee, like.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u99	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, I would like to say very briefly in answer to your question. The fact is that we often have a precautionary measure of keeping watch is actually used as punishment for a person. And yet the guilt of one person has not been proved, and people have been in custody for years. I'd like to emphasize that in particular. And the government of Azar introduced for the first time a single law that more or less humanizes this issue. And the Supreme Council, honourable colleagues, we all voted here to amend article 155 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which greatly humanized the issue of keeping watch as a precautionary measure, but the President of Ukraine vetoed. That's the problem. I don't think the current authority is interested in harmonising and humanizing such a precautionary measure as keeping watch. I'll tell you more about what it is you're holding under.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u100	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, it's torture to keep under guard in the conditions that are currently in the detention cells. This is torture. That's why, honourable colleagues, head of the Human Rights Committee, I urge you, along with our committee, to stand up for these people's rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u102	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Honorable Colleagues, Shall We Discuss or Not? I think I think we've heard both the reporter and the co-rapporteur, and with questions so clear, there's no need to waste time. It's only Kendzior's. Okay. Please, Ivan Vasilovich, hold on. I'll give it to you later. Kendzior microphone, please, or on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u103	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! Jaroslav Kenzier, Party for Ukraine! I believe that the initiative of my colleague, Oleg Zarubinsky, deserves attention. I have no relation, as it were, to the study of criminal matters, to the bar, but the fact that I, as a national deputy, are very often approached by people who, because of different circumstances, have become, as it were, objects of interest to the law enforcement authorities and this fact, this wand that is in the Criminal Code that the suspect, by confessing his guilt, may be the only argument to bring the matter to an end. Then it turns out, it's also said to be half-breeds, when there's a 2-3-year-old person who's been forced to declare, as it were, his own and confess to some kind of crime. But we have many facts today when a person is sentenced to a higher standard of punishment, to eternal imprisonment, and then, some years later, it is also revealed that he is innocent. Because a witness gave a witness, even though he changed his witness three or four times, but the investigation team finally received this witness, as it were, in order to complete and place the branch in the process. To avoid being loud, I give an example. The famous work of Vladimir Panasenko, involved in an explosion at the Schuvar Market. The only argument, as it were, that Vladimir Panasenko was put in prison for life is that he was a red witness; who, three or four times changed his testimony, called one, two, third and fourth parties to the explosion against the market manager. And when he finally admitted it, under certain influences, Vladimir Panasenko is in prison for life. And unfortunately, we don't have a procedure in the Criminal Code or in the Procedural Code to correct that mistake. And where the family isn't going today, and Nina Carpachova, and the Supreme Court, and the Attorney General's Office, they're all hand-in-hand. All right, the court has taken place. The Supreme Court, as it were, has listened to the cassation and has no advice. And a man who has not been proved guilty, as stated in a court sentence, could have been a contracting party! And for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u104	Thank you. Yes, dear fellows, we will vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedures Code, author of the bill, Alexander Zarubinsky. [[on changing the status of confession as evidence of guilt in criminal matters]] [[Registration number 6059]] Please vote. [[13:05:13]] For 242 Copy that. Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, let's move on to the Vulnerable. Please sign up. Yes, at the same time, I remind you, Your Honorable Fellow Members, that you can pass on the word only when you're in the session room. Please, Serbin. Behind him is Kamchatny. Serbian microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u105	I'll give it to my colleague Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u106	Arieva? Please, Ariev. Behind him is Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, on April 21st, yesterday, we witnessed another exhibition under the cynical title "The Fight of Ukrainian Femida with Corruption" with allegedly corruption. The Court of Appeal of Kiev has once again continued to hold under the watch of the leader of the political party People's Self-Defense, ex-Minister of the Interior of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenka, for up to five months. Now Yuri Lucenko has been behind bars for four months. And this is happening under the premeditated Attorney General's Office on the basis of his alleged attempt to flee abroad and not get acquainted with the material of a criminal case committed against him under three articles of the Criminal Code, violated with obvious falsifications, aimed at accusing Yuri Lucenka of committing allegedly serious crimes in order to obtain a formal reason to isolate him from society. Yesterday the court ruled to keep Yuri Lucenk in custody because his lawyers had failed to complete a criminal case and had failed to complete a criminal case with other figures in the criminal case. I mean, they didn't read it, but Lucenko should be sitting. All arguments for the defence of repeated violent violations of ex-Minister's legal rights and the leader of the National Self-Defense political party, Yuri Lucenko, the court has ignored. Lucenko will play for as long as there is a desire for the procurator general and the Ukrainian authorities and President Yanukovic himself and no matter how legitimate that is. The so-called justice of the country wanted to sneeze for the trouble of the Hero of Ukraine Leuk Lukyanenka, 65 national MPs and 1 million Ukrainian citizens who asked and demanded the release of Yuri Lucenk from custody. We are the deputies of the factions "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and our colleagues from the faction "Father's" BUT are deeply outraged by the actions of the Attorney-General's Office of Ukraine and the court-martialed courts that have destroyed any expectation of a state of justice. And this applies not only to Yuri Lucenka, but also to Makarenko, Didenka, and Yvashchenka, who are now behind bars because of premeditated arguments. The European Court of Human Rights has already accepted Lucenka's complaint of violation of his rights by Ukrainian femida, and the Ukrainian authorities must now explain to the international community why human rights are being violated in Ukraine. We claim that yesterday’s ruling of the court is another example of political repression, persecution aimed at the destruction of opposition forces in Ukraine. We demand that the Supreme Council intervene immediately and put an end to the legal chaos in the Ukrainian courts, which are actually returning Ukraine to the Dark Middle Ages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u108	National deputy Kamchatny gives the floor to the deputy of Sidelnik. Please. Victor Terrence will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u109	Seatnik, Suma District, "Reforms for the Future". Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days, we will celebrate the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, the largest technological accident in human history. In the wake of this sad date, politicians and managers at all levels in the centre and on the ground have traditionally delivered speeches expressing their gratitude to the liquidators of the Chernobyl accident and expressing their assurances of their full support. But the truth of life, unfortunately, is that this is usually the case at the level of declarations. In recent times, I have received many requests from participants in the management of the accident at CHEC regarding their negative treatment of housing issues. The case is that a 75-bedroom apartment house for Chernobyl is being built in Putivl district of Sumsko. It was put into service in 2008, and think about it in 2008. It has been almost three years since this house was handed over, but the house is still uninhabited. There are lawsuits between the Ministry of Justice and the North Spectration construction organization. On this issue, I sent a parliamentary request to the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Ukraine as early as December 2010. The answer was negative. Thereafter, in March 2011, an address was sent to the MP group of the “Reforms for the Future” Prime Minister of Ukraine Azarov Mikola Janović. It was entrusted to the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Balog, as well as to the Minister of Construction and Housing of Hivrich, Minister of Justice of Lavrinović, to consider and inform on this matter. As they considered, it was still unknown, but the house still remains uninhabited. Dear fellow ministers, what assessment will the people give you if the house is built for three years and is still uninhabited? A trial is under way between the CDM and the construction organization. The point is, argue, judge, but I think the apartments should be given by that date. On this issue, a group of deputies have already addressed the President of Ukraine, Victor Fedorovic Yanukovic. It is hoped that this issue will eventually be resolved, as the President of Ukraine signed the Order of 11 October 2010 on activities related to the 25-year anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, which is, of course, to be implemented. And a settlement in the 70s.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u110	Thank you. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u111	a partial major contribution to the implementation of the decree of the President of Ukraine. The solution is simple: the CDM must transfer from the State to the communal property of the territorial community of Putill Sumska oblast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u112	I invite Victor Taran to the floor. [[Terra]] It will be followed by Eugene Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u113	Victor Taran, "Timoshenko Yulia Block". Well, respectable fellow citizens of Ukraine! Previously on Maidan Independence, near the National Ukrainian Flag of Majors, the flag of the European Union. And that was normal, that showed where Ukraine was going. At the Presidential Palace along with the flag of Ukraine, the State Flag, was the flag of the European Union. When the new power came, the Supreme Council now takes the Order to make this Red Flag, under which all the Stalin concentration camps were, compare it to the State and hang it along with our State Flag. The Supreme Council has defamed Europe's opinion because the Council of Europe has made a very simple decision that compared fascism and Stalinism to the same. And that's right, because Stalin raised a toast in his day and said that "our friendship with Hitler is bound by blood." That's what the papers say. And under the same red flags were concentration camps and fascist and Soviet flags. But why is all this being done? What is the purpose of this red attack on the Supreme Council and Ukraine? Very simple: and in order to split Ukraine once, because the proud Lviv, proud Ivano-Frankivsky, will never let red pots run over them in the sky; and the second, to distract people from the terrible poverty that the Ukrainian nation today faces: when prices go up, tariffs go up, prices go up, and products go up, and the number of billionaires goes up from 3 to 21 in the face of the terrible poverty of the Ukrainian population, and if it goes down, the decision to hang red flags is made. But there's another very important nuance, red flag making, organizational spending, all of this is going to be a very round sum. And today at the faction, at the Timoshenko Block, we decided to propose to the government, all the money that goes towards making red flags, hangings, and so on, to get people back to war veterans, according to our calculations, that's about 12 to 15 thousand every veteran of war could get. And so there's a very simple proposal for government, and I ask you to think of it as a parliamentary request: to channel red flag money, and this goes to local budgets, organizational costs, and so on by targeting just to help war veterans, so that these people, few of them, can buy drugs, they can buy normal products. And it's going to be a real concern for people, not for waving red panties. I'm asking you to consider the offer of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u114	I would like to invite Eugene Kralkov, a faction of Communists. Since he was also given the word by the national deputy Haydayav, six minutes is the order, please. He will be followed by Oreste Mutz, who was given the word of the national deputy Gluschenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u115	Respectable voters, respected people's deputies, in order to build a bright future, must always remember our past, which is the most sustainable foundation. Our State has gone a long way in its development and development and we must not forget our history. The victory flag of the 150th Qutuz Order of the Second Idrik Small Division, married on 1 May 1945 over the Reichstag building in Berlin, symbolizes the victory of the Soviet people, the Soviet Union and the Soviet Army, which included not one country, not one nation, over Nazi Germany in the Great Homeland War. During the Reichstag storm, a number of red flags were married, but among the flags of the Victory, the flag is considered to be the prestigious one, strengthened by Alexei Berest, Mikhail Egorov and Melito Cantaria, from different nationalities. Few know that it was the Ukrainian Alexei Berest who led the group. There is no one truth in history. No one prohibits the perception of historical events in harmony with his or her internal convictions. However, the latest actions of those nationalists who are now in the Western and Ukrainian parliaments and a bunch of villains who are unfortunately in the Ukrainian Parliament show that they did not want the Soviet Army to liberate Ukraine from the Fascist insolences, and they would still be pleased to serve them, as they did almost 66 years ago, 70 years ago, to the Fascist conceits. This is very evident in that the day on which it was finally possible to say that all this terrible would end, which Ukraine had been waiting for 20 years, factions and the Ukrainian Comparty, and the Party of the Regions, the Lithuanian Block, had managed to perpetuate the memory of our grandfathers by such a high legislative act. For Veterans, the Flag of Victory is probably the only one, but it is not enough moral and political compensation that some politicians believe we must forget and put in a remote closet. But the greatest joy for these people would be to have every Ukrainian citizen, especially young people, understand what the feat symbolizes. I gave an example to the press yesterday. When I was with my colleagues in Victory Park, Slava Park, here, in Kiev, I drove a bus with my kids and, if it was a teacher, did a guide release them to the monument of the Mother Family. And when they were asked, "What is this?" - they started laughing and saying, "Maybe it's burning." And it is, unfortunately, the misery of our society and your guilt, the orange fools, that you have, in five years, erased from your textbooks such a glorious period of history. In order to quote some of the figures who spoke from this rostrum today, it is a waste of our grandfathers. By the way, I want to remind Arsenia of the historical document. This was the front of the nation, led by Bandera. Who published the following data in his quotes: “Yes to the health of an independent Ukraine. No Moscals, no Jews, no Poles and no Germans." I think Yatsenyuku needs to ask his father where these documents came from and who was their guide. I would like to read out the phrases that their ideals of those bastards who are still in this Parliament, but I hope that in time they will also be criminalized for promoting Fascism and nationalism. This is what their leader, Eugene Konovalec, wrote, but they ruled in Parliament. "I'm willing to pull a revolver out of it and drop it where it's headed," he says. The second quote, "Terror will be not only our means of self-defence, but also our agitation" by Eugene Konovalec. And I can read you dozens of those phrases. And at the end of the day, I wanted to read you people's opinions, and I've just had my assistants printed off the Internet, and they're thanking all the factions in the faction that voted for this law, and they're writing, after the war, the whole of Western Europe has cursed those Ukrainians in the blacksmiths who fought on Hitler's side, and that is, Europe has known on its skin all the atrocities of the U.N.A.A.A. and other human beasts. They were not only civilians; they were the ones who drove people into gas chambers in the concentration camps, and they were the ones who made toys and decorated Christmas trees, and they were the ones who commanded the crematorium stoves. Not to mention, now they are raising their heads again, the old ones who have fallen, the stunning, the young continuers of their affairs, passed on their experiences, their beastly malice and their hatred for all the good that has been brought up and tamed in Soviet times. Therefore, on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I would like once again to thank those people's deputies who supported the initiative. I would like to support those legislative acts that are now being prepared for the celebration of May 9th, and this is the decree of the 70th partisan celebration, which fortunately did not come to your podunks and the captivating fascists. This is a statement that has been adopted by Parliament in support of those positions that have already been put in place in Nuremberg by our leader, Peter Simonenko, Igor Alexeiev. And I want to tell you that your time is coming to an end, and not just from this rostrum, and from our constituents, you will be held accountable for the propaganda of fascism and Nazism. In conclusion, I would like to congratulate all citizens of Ukraine on two big dates and events. We know that Vladimir Ilic Lenin was born on 22 April, who made her independent throughout the history of Ukraine, added 39 per cent of the territories that you hated, added another 12 per cent of the territory and provided Khrushchev with his legislative act. So you must bow down and pray to Vladimir Ilyich Lenin as the creator of an independent state. And I would also like to congratulate all the veterans on their upcoming holidays, the Day of Our Common Victory. And I assure you that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will make every effort to ensure that this dishonesty is from Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u116	I'd like to invite Oreste Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions. He'll be followed by Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u117	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. Dear Ukrainians, compatriots! Today we are all ahead of one of the greatest festivals of Christ's resurrection. Ukrainians, a believing nation, religion is a major part of the social life of our country, of every region. Yes, only Ternopilska is celebrated by Christendom’s world - famous shrines, such as the Pocavian Lavra and the Marian spiritual center in Zavanica. From the great-grandfather of the day before Easter, there is a custom in our people to make arrangements in homes, in agriculture, to keep things going. Not for the first time in years, with the order of affairs in our common Ukrainian home, authorities have managed the work of the government structure in an orderly manner: The President, the government, parliament and local authorities are working together as the sole goal, the well-being of the country and the citizens, to fight corruption. State policy applies to all regions of the state, including the Western ones. The president, the government, the local authorities are working together to restore the neglected but powerful potential of Western Ukraine, to create hundreds of thousands of jobs so that our employees can return and meet religious holidays in their homeland, in their families. It was also symbolic that on Thursday the Head of State, Viktor Yanukovic, met with the leaders of all the Ukrainian churches. Interfaith understanding and unity are important to our nation. In unity, the power of our people. On the eve of the festival, we would like to remind ourselves that before approaching the leadership of the State, today’s President expressed confidence that the Ukrainian people would overcome all the challenges, all the challenges that the Lord God is giving us today. Stressing that we will have enough power for the sake of our Fatherland, for the sake of our children and grandchildren, to overcome all the difficulties and to build a powerful state that will be respected in the world. That is exactly what is happening today. Dear Ukrainians, the thorns! I would like to prepare well for the Easter meeting, especially in the life of every Christian. I sincerely love every family of strong health, the well - being of strength in all the beginnings and activities for Ukraine’s benefit. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u118	I invite Oleg Lazko to speak with Vladimir Litvinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u119	Dear fellow citizens, April 22th for the Christian world is a sign day — A Passionate Friday. On that day, church bells do not ring, and even birds die because the Savior was crucified on that day. Friday of the Eerie Week for all of us, people of the third millennium, who are "straighting by life at five speeds", the opportunity to stop for at least a moment to think about the meaning of life and their purpose on earth. This is a day we all have to spend without fuss, but without the political cartoons on which the television "set" millions of viewers. As a Christian, I think that the political talk show on the highest night of the week on the Eros Friday should be cancelled. And "The Great Politics on the Inter," and "The Schuster-Live" on the First Nationals should not be funning people on this passionate evening with "the battles of political gladiators," maybe from a material point of view, the channels can suffer losses, but from a moral point of view, I'm sure, sponsors and TV broadcasters will win much more if they show respect for the feelings of fellow citizens. I urge you to refrain from showing your shows on Friday and not to go to them today. Recall his words at the Cross: Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u120	I invite Vladimir Litwinov, his colleagues have given him the word, he has the Rules for 6 minutes. Kovalova and Mybrod. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u121	Vladimir Litvinov, Party of Regions. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, respected colleagues, respected compatriots, the issue of utility tariffs has always been complex and painful. This is true now that the authorities are trying to implement a series of very important reforms, including in the communal sphere. The financial burden, first of all, remains high on the least protected levels of the population. So I want to draw your attention to the injustices that exist in tariff policy and that are adequately addressed. Since February 1, 2011, a 150 - kilowatt - a - month tariff limit has been set for residents provided with gas to prepare food. And 250 kilowatts for buildings with electric plates. Anything consumed above the limit is paid at a much higher rate. That's fair. After all, electric stoves are forced to consume more electricity. At the same time, for many years, gas supplies have been cut off in some one - sided buildings, and people are simply forced to consume more electricity to prepare food. For example, the city of Dobropil of the Donetsk region, with a population of 65,000, is not provided by the main gas pipeline. More than 10 percent of the multistory buildings, 97 of which were built from gas supplies of compressed gas. Since 1996, however, the supply of compressed gas has been shut down. Gas tanks and local gas pipelines are dismantled. Thus, residents are forced to cook their food for electricity and to consume electricity at the level of those who are officially using electric plates. People became, in fact, hostages of the situation. They were deprived of the possibility of using gas by choice. The price of electricity for buildings with electric plates calls for such technical issues to be resolved. It's to get technical conditions, to produce project documentation, to build more power networks, to replace transformers. This includes significant costs that people do not have. Of course, these conditions must be met in the light of at least fire safety and the technical capacity of the power grids to withstand increasing stress. But people are not to blame for not being supplied with gas. So it's essentially suggested that we compare these buildings in a tariff grid to those in which electroplates are installed. There are two ways to solve the problem in this particular case in the city of Dobropil. First, run a highway pipeline into the city, and only 15 kilometers are needed and the buildings mentioned above are attached to them. Second, or equip these houses with electroplates to meet technical requirements. Considering that these options require a long period of time, I suggest that Dobrekkoblennergo and Donetskhasz approach Doneckoblennergo and Donetskgas jointly to consider and resolve the question of the temporary comparison of dwellings, of houses with gas-discharged buildings to those using electroplates to essentially solve the issue. In order to solve the problem in the country as a whole, I propose that the NCRE and the Ministry of Profiles be given power and social policy, that the issue of Ukraine as a whole be examined, namely, how many housing units were forcibly excluded from the gas supply, without the conditions for switching to cooking on electric plates, and that proposals for a state-wide settlement of the issue. People need help from the state in this situation. They themselves cannot solve the issue. I ask that my statement be considered a request to these institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u122	Please prepare the appropriate address mentioned by the Lithuanian national deputy. I'd like to invite Vasil Demchisen, the faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Korz Vitali Terentiyovich, who was given the word of the national deputy Vasil Kravchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u123	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, colleagues! I and my colleague, the Ukrainian national deputy, who has just been speaking, have been approached by experts who have worked for many years in the field of energy efficiency in the use of electricity for the heating of municipal and socio-budgetary facilities. The first attempts to use electricity in market conditions were already made in 1996. And in 1997 individual facilities in Kiev and Hmelničina began to exploit such objects. Then the scientific principles of energy - efficient technology and electrical thermal heating systems were developed. They are able to tighten the load schedule of the electricity systems and at the same time provide the population with a high-quality, comfortable type of heating. Save between 1 and 1.6 billion meters per year of natural gas. This value is not only sufficient compared to the technologically appropriate for the conditions of Ukraine, but also the use of non-traditional sources of energy. Biomasses of coal methane, small hydropower, and others. And in most cases, it even outnumbers them. In market economy conditions, electricity has already received a noticeable distribution. During the second cadence of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, it signed the order of Kabmin to transfer the population to electricity. But right now, when prices for natural gas and electricity in Ukraine are approaching Europeans, this technology has begun to show off its essential advantages over traditional heating technologies. Today, the most promising and relevant niche for the introduction of electricity is socio-budgetary facilities. According to the results of last year’s heating season, a year’s pietoma cost of burning schools in the Derezhenian district of Hmelnicka, using the technology of electrical thermal heating, was 23 bracelets per metre per cubic metre, instead of 73.8 bracelets per cubic metre per traditional modular gas boilers. So the new technology is 3.2 times more efficient than the gas, 2 is coal and 1.6 times electric boilers. These facts strongly indicate that the budget is able to achieve the real economy of public finances that are allocated for heating while improving comfortable environmental conditions. In order to successfully implement the issues that we have raised in the country, all the prerequisites are: a regulatory and technical base developed, a series of high-quality domestic compilers developed, and certification companies operating on design. Given the above, we think it would be appropriate to conduct a two-year experiment in the Donetsk, the hops, using its results in the current year. Please consider this a question to be a question for the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u124	Please form an appropriate address. I'd like to invite Vitaly Korga to speak with Jaroslav Kendzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u125	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! I was approached by the MPs of the Ripkin District Council, my native Montenegrin, to resolve a conflict situation that was created, including with the participation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a very simple situation. There are laws in force that provide for specific payments, but payment is not included in the state budget. It's not supposed to be such a sly modern explanation of what needs to be paid, but it doesn't have to be paid because it's not foreseen, not by itself, but by a specific ruling coalition led by the Party of Regions. According to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, residents of polluted territories have benefits and should receive compensation, but they do not receive compensation. A similar situation with regard to payment to children of war under the Law on the Social Protection of Children of War. Thus, people who are not provided for by law and are not actually provided for in law are brought before the court and the court, on the basis of the law, decides to pay for only one Ripkini district in Montenegro since the beginning of the year, 4,000,250 administrative lawsuits have been registered in the court. The Pension Fund and the Labour and Social Protection Administration of the District State Administration receive almost one and a half hundred executive letters each day. The administrators are forced to pay the costs of court decisions, even though they are not provided for in the cost - effective assignments of these institutions. For the second time and for the third time, law - abiding citizens present a case before a court that meets the prosecution’s requirements only for a term of six months. In addition, citizens with the same benefits receive various amounts of compensation. People have reason to complain, for Ripkinska suffered significantly from an accident at CHAES. 72 of the 118 inhabitants of the region are confined to polluted areas. And how to explain this situation to people, if the law is provided, does not mean that it must be done. The members of the Ripkin District Council of the Sixth Call at their recent session unanimously called on me to publish and take steps to stop compromising the law and the legislators.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u126	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u127	That I am doing and insisting on considering this speech as a parliamentary address to Prime Minister Mikolia Azarov of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u128	Please. Prepare such a request. I invite Jaroslav Kendzior, who was also given the word Viacheslav Kirilenko. So, Jaroslav Kenzier, 6 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u129	Dear fellow national MPs, dear fellow Ukrainians! Yesterday in the Pure Quarter, when every man with yet preserved honor, faith, and conscience went to confession to cleanse himself on that day, to get rid of sins, and to try to live by the Ten Commandments of the Lord. And it's not bitter, it's not sad to say today, yesterday in this holy one for all the thinking and patriotic and believing Ukrainians, this day was defiled by Ukraine as a state with a red sinister flag that symbolizes the sea of blood spilled by the Ukrainian people by catama from the Communist regime. So on April 21, the Supreme Council passed the Law on the Use of Victory Day at the State Level of the Red Flags. The fact that the Communist flag with the star and the sickle and the hammer are hidden under the term "the flag of victory" cannot mislead anyone, as well as the claim that there is nothing more important for veterans than the hanging of Communist flags. This is a further act of national humiliation of Ukraine in the Kremlin accord, obediently carried out by the puppet power. Under the bloody flag, the Communist regime occupied an independent Ukraine, beginning in 1918, a red flag, a red terror, famines, gunshots, deportations, destruction of churches, looting of peasants, destruction of intelligence. More than 30 million Ukrainians were paid for their lives during their communist rule in Ukraine, and all intelligence was destroyed. On a global scale, some 100 million inhabitants of the earth have been destroyed on all the continents under Communist Red. And today these circuits, these mutants raise their voices, raise their voices here in Ukraine. Under the bloody flag, the Communist regime occupied an independent Ukraine, as mentioned earlier. Voting for the red flags is a challenge not only to the Ukrainian people but also to the entire civilized world, because it was under the red flag that Stalin, together with his brother Hitler, shared Europe in 1939 and unleashed the Second World War, where millions of people from all European countries were thrown into this bloody massacre. It was under this flag that the Kremlin destroyed the freedom of many nations, drowning in the blood of Budapest and Prague. Communist totalitarianism and its symbols were repeatedly condemned by resolutions of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe. Therefore, neither Poland, Serbia, Bulgaria, nor France – no European country will celebrate, the Baltic countries, which I am talking about today, will celebrate Victory Day, or the victory day of World War II over one, the anti-human regime under the flags of another anti-human regime. So the faction of the Party of Regions and their satellites: The People's Party of Lithuania, the Communists, the Reforms for the Future, which are responsible for this anti-Ukrainean and, ultimately, the anti-European law, have done another task: to humiliate Ukraine, to demonstrate its independence, to oppose our country the rest of the civilised world, to argue with the Ukrainians among themselves to hang some Communist flags, and the others tore them apart. Such anti - Ukrainian provocative policies of the great - grandsons of Stalin, Déržinsky, Kaganović, and other communist bloody wars can cause nothing but condemnation and disgust. And to conclude this subject, I want to say the words of Vasil Simonek, the Ukrainian poet of the Sixties: "You bastards of the Cats of the Insane, remember, you bastards, nowhere: my people are, in his willful lives, the Cossack's blood is throbbing and gushing!" And another topic that I want to touch is the anniversary, the terrible anniversary of the infamous "harkovian Covenant of Medvedev-Janukovich" signed on April 21st in Kharkiv and April 27th, ignoring the prescribed legislative procedure ratified here. All of this: both this pact and today's massive attack by anti-Ukrainian forces and the Fifth Column in the person of communists and regionals, and unfortunately, some other deputies from other factions, is all a total attack on an independent Ukrainian state. And then today, I'd like to honor another date, the date of the uprising in Eastern Ukraine, and especially in the Cold Spring, that the fire of the Cold Spring will definitely flash all over Ukraine. I encourage the Ukrainians to read, forgive for the advertisement, but I have to say this, a novel by Vasil Sklar, "Black Crow, Or Remain," there you will see what good the Communist regime has done us. Ukrainians, let us rise to full growth and think about what is being done with our nation, where we are being led by today’s authorities, and what this can accomplish for us! Thank you and welcome everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u130	I invite Lilia Grigorovich to speak with Yuri Prokopchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u131	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national deputies, on the eve of the coming light resurrection of Christ, allow me to wish all good people, all of Ukraine God’s blessing in good works for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Today, the High Friday is the day of great God’s truth, great tribulation, and great suffering. I would like to point out that the Ukrainian Parliament sinned yesterday, both on the Week of Passion and today on the Friday of Passion, it sinned both by word and by deed. Listening to the schizoid reeds without a king in my head, I imagined for a moment what those bloodless NCWDists who shot the human skulls in Sandormos looked like the leaders of the steel trio who tortured the Ukrainians and my father, finally for three thousand years as the villains and the inhumans looked down to Judas Iscariot. This is how I was mentioned today, on the Day of Passion, but the resurrection of the Christ says: “The lie will perish, but the good will prevail. I want to look at yesterday's ominous events for Ukraine's Clean Thursday. By listening to the Communists led by the Party of the Regions, most of them struck Euro in the pursuits of President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine. Because these red flags will not be hanged anywhere in any European country, even in the Russian Federation, even in Belarus. These red flags are signal red flags, which, like hunting, Ukraine will be driven into a chasm – away from Europe. Because the European Union and the European Parliament have acknowledged that both brown and red plague and Hitler and Stalin are the same evil. That's why it's a blow to Euro in the President's quest. This is a huge slap to those Ukrainian veterans who are alive. Because remember, there was the First Ukrainian Front, the Second Ukrainian Front, the Third Ukrainian Front. They fought on the Ukrainian fronts. Because the whole territory of Ukraine was occupied by the Fascists. And I won't let anyone take away our Ukrainian victory from us. It's not your victory, it's my victory. Because our grandfather went through everything, all the fronts of World War II. Two uncles died. And in view of that, I want to emphasize that a kingdom built on a lie will fall. The empires will fall, the nations will stand, for Christ the Resurrection, Ukraine will be resurrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u132	I'd like to invite Yuri Prokopchuk. He will be followed by Andrew Pavlovsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u133	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Respectable compatriots! We stand at the threshold of the celebration of the great Christian festival, the resurrection of Christ. I sincerely welcome all Christians with this festival, and I wish them happiness, health, well - being. And Christ, who sacrificed himself in order to gather the sins of mankind, I think he should be the leading star that is to lead everyone -- both the Orthodox and the Christian in his life. And here I would also like to highlight another topic that may be relevant to these events today. The Gospel of Matthew makes it clear that trade in land is one of the greatest mortal sins. Today the so-called land reform is being proposed to the Ukrainian society, where we have to lose really the biggest acquisition, according to the Constitution, is the Ukrainian land. The land, its nadra, its water, its natural resources, which are within the territory of Ukraine, are the property of all the Ukrainian people, Ukraine has rich land resources, it is known that the Blacklands are the best in the world. However, during Ukraine’s independence, conditions conducive to their use were unfortunately distorted and lost. Individual politicians and scientists, representatives of the media, in pursuit of useful goals, imposed on society the idea that the State, in the person of the state authorities, was a monopoly landowner, which created the need for dissipation and privatization of the land. In fact, the land that was forever established by collective farms was formerly colloquial and rhodos, enterprises, scientific research institutions, individual citizens, these were also dowry areas, cities, houses, houses, not state property as a resource of production, but legal property without the right to alienation. It is a mistake that the land market will contribute to increased revenues from government and local budgets, investment in agricultural production and economic autonomy of producers. Cynical is the claim that the land of the village or of the city will not go anywhere, but the money will go for the benefit of the people. Regrettably, the reforms envisioned by today’s authorities are precisely aimed at ensuring that the state land, Ukraine’s greatest value as people, citizens, has become property and that foreign owners are not excluded. So as an MP, as a citizen of Ukraine, I want to address this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u134	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u135	I would also like to address this issue before the Cabinet of Ministers, in front of the President, first of all, before the Supreme Council, and not allow the arbitrary sale of land in foreign hands, because this will lead to the destruction of Ukrainian statehood. Thank God! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u136	I invite Andrew Pavlovsky, followed by John Popescu. Ladies and gentlemen, don't make any noise because there's no way to listen to the MPs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u137	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" - "The Fatherland." Respectable compatriots! Yesterday, personally and most of you saw on television the abuse of justice in Ukraine, over the court, over the virtually innocent man Yuri Lucenk, who for some half a year is in prison, despite his health problems. And now, and after he's finished reading the cases, and he's being held as if he's delayed reading the case, getting to know him, he's got another reason why he's not being released: that some of the other people involved, they're not getting to know him, they're reading something else, and Lucenko's sitting there. And the prosecutors didn't get the charges against them. Why, then, should he be imprisoned for other problems of others? Questions. What is more than moral torture and abuse of Lucenka and justice in Ukraine? We can't find the truth in our courts. The judges turned into frightened creatures. And our prosecutors, I'm sorry, are just descendants of the bloody prosecutor's cats of Visinsky. That's all I can say. I would also like to point out that in Ukraine, too, there are now prisoners of torture and other honest people like Makarenko, Didenko, whose main fault is that they have given the state gas, the gas that Mr. Firtash stole from the state with his criminal structure, Rosukreenergo, who now rules our state, unfortunately. And I wanted to add that not only were the known people who were on the side of the state of Ukraine being tortured and now the political prisoners are being imprisoned, even to young people, the young patriots from Trizubu were being tortured, which they themselves said at a press conference when they were being held in a prison court. And now she's being held in prison by a 19-year-old girl, a student of Hanna Sinkov, for making ridiculous accusations, at most, she can be given a "small hooliganism" for that perphomenism against the totalitarian symbolism she made. So I think you need to draw conclusions about the state that Janukovich is creating in our Ukraine: totalitarian, repressive, red-blooded pots, a return to tragic times. And, honourable citizens, think: if we don't get up now, we don't defend ourselves, our fundamental rights, our social rights, the quality of our lives, which is getting worse every day, it will continue to get worse. It's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u138	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u139	It's time to say we won't agree to that. And the first such protests will be on May 14th, then April 19, and the 27th will be a protest at the Chewchenk Monument against the disgraceful Harkow Treaties that gave up our territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u140	I invite John Popescu, followed by John the Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u141	Thank you! The sands, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the region of Cherniewec. Reverend Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm informing you that while I was in the constituency in the Chernivecki region, I was approached by residents of the village of Khrätzka in the Hertzai region, asking to help get a school bus to solve the issue of taking children to school. Without a school bus, it's hard to organize proper training for children from the remote Saints, Valen and Strang, where there are only primary schools. The school bus also needs a Romanian school in the village of Lower Petrovci, the Guards’ district, a large village outside the territory, and it is difficult for children to walk to school from furs. For example, from a part of the village of Illynka, it takes about an hour to go one way. In the afternoon, many students participate in national creativity groups, both at school and at a cultural home, and children’s groups regularly participate in and are the winners of regional, district, and international festivals. This year, August 28, the village of Lower Petrovci commemorates 600 years from the first historical reference under the name. So solving the issue of school bus security would be a great gift for the entire village in connection with this event. The need for a school bus was also addressed by the director of the Mikhay Eminescu Glubecko District of Societies, Eugene Vasilovich, the parents of the students of the village and the neighboring villages who are studying on the fly. In this school, children are given greater knowledge of basic disciplines. Almost all of the graduates of the class enter the university. It is also appropriate to address the issue of transporting children from various locations that may live in a boarding school. On the basis of the above, I refer to the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine and to the Chief of Education of the Chernobyl District Administration to take the necessary steps to address the issue of the allocation of school buses to the above-mentioned teaching institutions of the Cherniewsk Region as part of the implementation of the School Bus program. Taking advantage of the occasion, I would like to congratulate everyone on the upcoming Easter celebration. I wish everyone health and God’s blessing in all your beginnings. Thank you for your attention. And please consider my speech a question of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u142	Please prepare an appropriate request as a request. I would like to invite John the Hare, followed by Yuri Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u143	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the parliamentary majority of the faction of the Party of Regions, Communists, the "Litvina Block" and the "cushion" passed a law that prescribes the mandatory use of the red flag in actions related to the events of the Great Homeland War. This decision is a vivid illustration of hatred against Ukrainians, Ukraine. It is a hypocritical abuse of the memory of millions of Ukrainians who have given their lives in the fight against the fascists. This decision is a manifestation of the Soviet-Communist mentality of the present power, which has nothing to do with true democracy and the European choice of the Ukrainian people, with a genuine respect for the heroes of World War II. And that's why. We should not love Ukraine so much as to celebrate Victory Day and other measures under two flags, as they say, under state law and under red. But if you read the law, the law states that two flags will mark only May 9 and other events related to World War II will be marked under the red flag. This should be shared in our contribution to victory over the fascists. Where will you find such a state where you will find such politicians? There's no higher flag than the state flag. There is no more sacred flag than the national flag, but it tells us that our authority is following the direction of Putin, who has humiliated the Ukrainian soldiers, humiliated the Ukrainians when he said that they would win this war without Ukraine. As the Flag of Victory, this parliamentary majority, the Communists and the Party of the Regions, these carcasses chose, not the flag of the First or Second, or the Third Ukrainian Front, but the flag of the Division of the Second Corps of the First Belarusian Front. Again, how is it necessary not to love your country in order not to attribute this victory to your people? The war was fought in Ukraine for 36 months. Millions of victims, broken down by how many population sites and so on, but this whole communist power, it draws Ukrainian society away from democracy, from the well-being of the past. Here yesterday, one of the majority spoke of the fact that our veterans do not need pills to improve their health, they need this red flag today. So I'd like to see this MP treated with these red flags that have nothing to do with the flags that were raised above the Reichstag, that have nothing to do with our national symbolism, that he would be treated with these flags, not with the pills that he buys for millions or for other costs, and not with himself, but abroad. That's why we need to demand the President's veto for this law. And we don't need to hang these flags because we humiliate our soldiers, our contribution to victory over fascism.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u144	I'd like to invite Yuri Carmazin. He will be followed by Anatoly Seminog. Please. Yuri Anatolyovich, please, because time is coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u145	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Ukrainian people! I sincerely welcome you to the upcoming Easter. I want good, happiness, patience. But on this Passion Friday, I'm thinking, and obviously everyone has to think about how we live, what we do, what we do. This morning, I tried to convince this session hall that pensioners were illegally looted by the withdrawal and termination of the Constitution and the valid laws by acts of clerics that were not legal at all. Now I want to draw your attention not to the problem of flags. Because flag problem, it's a distracting maneuver of everything. It's made by vulnerable people who don't want to think about it or want to distract themselves from other problems. I would like to quote a letter from the people with disabilities of the Great Homeland War who, on behalf of the army and the sergeants, speak of the state's attitude toward them. They say that no one supports the affected categories of members of the fighting, the disabled of the Homeland War, the soldiers. Those who carried out the heavy, black frontal work on their shoulders. Those who, when chained to a bed with amputated limbs, have other severe injuries, receive a pension of up to 2,000 bracelets. And many are even smaller. At present, they continue to be overlooked. They say they exist. I quote a letter from Deduskin Fedor Filimonović, I group of invalids, Radchenk Ivan Nikolaevich. They're residents of the city of Kiev. What they require, I ask you to consider my statement as a request for an answer from the Prime Minister of Azarov. On the basis of what public utility is it only for the disabled members of the military and the sergeants to continue to apply the assignment of employment pensions to the average earnings in the Ukrainian sectors of the Ukrainian economy for 2002-2005? At a time when, as of 1 January 2008, all retirees have applied this figure for 2006. They require that the Prime Minister clarify the situation and apply measures to remedy the situation so that the disabled of the Great Homeland War of the military sergeants will be recalculated in the current fiscal year, in accordance with the Employment Pensions Act of persons who have been released on reserve, taking into account the average wage per sector of the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u146	Yuri Anatolyevich, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u147	I'm done. I ask you to consider my statement as a question of parliament, and I point out to the government that the problem of protecting the disabled, the war participants, the Afghan war participants, other armed conflicts, the Chernobyl government is not dealing with, the write-offs. It's the same with the deputies. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u148	Please form an appropriate query. I'd like to invite Anatoly Seminogue to finish the hour of "Rizzle."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u149	Anatoly Seminoga, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster Taking advantage of the opportunity, I want to welcome all my fellow countrymen with a beautiful Easter celebration, to wish all God’s blessing, good and happiness. Even though we're all getting ready for a wonderful holiday, this week was marked by preparations for the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Attention not only to the Ukrainian community but also to the international community was attached to the Conference of Donors from the collection of funding for Chernobyl projects, which took place in Kiev on April 19. All of this is happening in the background of recent events at Japan's Focusima-1 atomic station. As is already known, guarantees have been obtained from international donors for more than 450 million euros in contributions to the Chernobyl Fund. In view of this, there is a strong expectation that a complete, secure confection, together with satellite objects designed to transform the Chernobyl nuclear power station into an environmentally sound system, will be completed and put into operation in 2015. Of course, the technical side of eliminating the effects of a massive technological catastrophe on the planet is very important, but the social aspect of overcoming the consequences of an accident is equally important. Some statistics. Today, the Chernobyl disaster has 2,000,000 people, 105 Ukrainians, of whom nearly half a million are children. A flat at 01:01 P.M. In 2011, there were 255,000,862 participants in disaster management. 1 million 954 thousand 743 victims of the Chernobyl disaster, of which 482,000 357 victims are children. Among the 112 thousand,728 people with disabilities associated with the Chernobyl disaster, nearly 65 percent of the participants in the Chernobyl disaster were killed. There is a trend towards a rapid increase in the number of people in the first category, that is, the disabled, both at the expense of those involved in the liquidation of the accident and at the expense of the victims. If there were about 2,000 people with disabilities in 1991, it was now nearly 112 thousand adults, including 2,000 800 disabled children. As a result, I feel that I am a sad statistician who is impressive and reminds me of the front of the hoax. As a result, I find it quite inappropriate today that the Cabinet of Ministers passed Bill 7262 on State guarantees of use.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u150	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u151	It is with this bill that today's authorities are trying to change the status of Chernobyl, which is approved at the legislative level, and move it to the level of the Cabinet of Ministers. I think these things are unacceptable, and this is not just my opinion, but the opinion of the thousands of Chernobylites who are sending letters to the Committee and the Supreme Council today. I appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers to withdraw the bill and ask that my statement be considered as a parliamentary address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-22-m0.u152	Please prepare an appropriate request. Dear colleagues, I inform you that there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups on May 11th, and the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin on May 11 at 10 a.m. On the same day, there will be a 15-hour parliamentary hearing on "The state and prospects of economic relations with the EU and the customs union." [[Free Trade Zone]] Dear colleagues, today is a sad day — a terrible Friday. And it is known that on this day when Jesus Christ was crucified, he prayed in behalf of his tormentors and said the wise relevant words: "Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing." I hope that after today we will all meet the great festival of the resurrection of Christ, not shortly after the resurrection of Ukraine. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
