ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[10:01:06]] There are 369 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, today they are celebrating birthdays, and we are with them, our colleagues Bevanko Valeriy Fedorovich, who was 65 years old, Karakai Yuri Vasilovich, still far away from the Jubilee, and Chernomorov Alexander Mikolaiovich. [[Applause]] Let us give them a warm welcome. Please listen to the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on May 19. We discussed 49 issues of the agenda with you yesterday. As a result of their consideration of 19 laws and 11 regulations, 7 bills and 1 draft decree were adopted on the basis of five bills, 5 bills were converted to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, 1 bill was returned to the committee for further consideration, 4 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law has been rejected. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and on Friday we have an hour of questions to the Government. Representatives of the MPs made a proposal to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers on raising social standards during the "hour of questioning to the Government". Deputy factions of the Party of the Regions, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko – "The Father of the Father", "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense", the Communist Party of Ukraine, the People's Party and the MP's "For the Future" group, based on part six of the 229 Rules, have notified the Cabinet of Ministers in advance of the questions that will be asked during the "hour of questions to the Government". Let me inform you that First Deputy Prime Minister Andri Petrovich Kljevev, Vice Prime Minister of Tikhov, most of the members of the government, is taking part in the "hour of questions to the Government." We need to identify ourselves with one moment, Your Honor. I propose that we meet with the Cabinet of Ministers, who has asked us to spend this hour of questioning for up to 10 minutes today, because at 11 o'clock, it's an emergency meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers for the organization of children's summer rest. I'm making an offer to finish the "hour of questions to the government" at 10 o'clock in 50 minutes. Please support this proposal. [[10:04:39]] For the 220. Once again, dear colleagues, in 10 minutes we will not change anything, but we can go to the Cabinet of Ministers on this unprincipled issue. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. [[10:05:10]] For 238. We're back, 238. I'm voting on the proposal to finish "the hour of questions to the government" at 10 o'clock 50 minutes. Please support this proposal. [[10:05:34]] For 242 Thank you. 242. If, dear colleagues, you have such objections, then we can catch up with the next "hour of questions to the government" for those 10 minutes: not 60 minutes, 70 minutes. So please, come on, I'm looking at a fundamental question here, not where we're supposed to break. And one more moment. We've assigned you to answer today's question to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy. Regrettably, Sergey Leonidovich fell ill. So the first Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Draga Vasil Ivanovich, will answer the question. Please, Sass microphone while he's on his way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that, in fact, today there are a little more members of the Cabinet of Ministers. But the law stipulates that the "hour of questions to the government" includes questions to cabinet members. Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, unfortunately, was, but he may still be a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, and now he's not. So I would ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to comply with the requirements of the Rules and Article 35 of the Cabinet of Ministers Act. And the members of the Cabinet of Ministers answered the questions of the National Deputies in the Hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u3	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. As always, you're right. We hope that our colleague will soon be in the rank you require of him. And he will answer your questions at any level with knowledge of the matter. There's a proposal like this, Vasil Ivanovich, let's answer the written questions in 10 hours 20 minutes and then 30 minutes to the oral questions. Okay? Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In general, 27 questions came to the Ministry of Social Policy for this "hour of government". Let me answer them accordingly. And so, the MP's faction of the Party of Regions, question number one. In 2009, the cost of living was frozen. What did the government do during 2010 and do during 2011 and 2012? Let me answer that. Indeed, in 2009 the subsistence minimum was left at the December 2008 level. However, since November 2009, this standard, according to the Social Standards Act, has been increased by an average of 1 person by 12 percent. In 2010, the government granted a step-by-step increase in the subsistence minimum and was approved in terms of the minimum and minimum wage. Yes, the subsistence minimum for 1 person in December 2010 was greater than the corresponding living minimum, set at 24.8 percent in December 2009. At the same time, 23.9 percent and 28.1 percent of those who lost their jobs were employed and those who lost their jobs. For 2011, according to the Ukrainian State Budget 2011 Act, the minimum subsistence allowance is approved taking into account the forecast of the consumer price index in the following dimensions. One person: January 1st, January 1st, January 1st, April 1st, April 1st, 911th, October 1st, 934th, and December 1st, 953th. For children under 6 years of age: from 1 January to 816, 1 April to 832, 1 October to 853 and 1 December to 870. The same is true of growth for children aged 6 to 18, for disabled for those who have lost their jobs. There are other numbers, but they are also subject to that growing ideology: to give, to add, to be named in previous examples. So the cost of living minimum set for December 2011 is on average one person above the corresponding size that was in effect in December 2009, and I'd like to draw your attention by 35.9 percent. In 2012 it is also planned to increase the cost of living to no less than the consumer price index forecast. People's Party MP, question number two of the total. The Social Insurance Fund for Industrial Accidents allowed for significant nonpayments to people who had lost their health at work as a result of accidents. What steps have the government taken to settle this issue? Let me answer that. As a result of the unwary decisions made by the previous government in 2009 and early 2010, which was cancelled by the current government, debt was created from the payment of government-owned coal enterprises' contributions to the Social Insurance Fund from industrial accidents. And this led to the fact that this fund was underpaid to miners of 670.7 million dollars. State coal companies did not list these decisions for nine months: from July 2009 to April 1, 2010 until it was abolished by an active government that destabilized the situation, the financial situation in the Social Insurance Fund against accidents. Debt for monthly loss of earnings, one-off payments to victims in case of loss of employment and all that sort of thing, and all the other payments to this fund as a debt amounted to 476.6 million dollars to our citizens. As a result of the Social Protection Fund's debt relief decisions, based on the government's decision to make a difference in the decisions that made it possible not to pay for the fund, we found that today, without any additional funding, a deficit budget for 2011 had been adopted and the situation of payments had improved significantly. There is no debt to victims of industrial accidents and occupational diseases today, I report. Payments are made in a timely and complete manner. The question from the MP's "Timoshenko Yulia Block" is "The Fatherland." Ukraine's system of state social standards is not complete and is not yet constitutionally oriented, it does not take international standards into account and is essentially social minimums, and the introduction of new social standards is very slow and unsystemic. What methodical and practical steps does the government take in the way of moving from providing social minimums to setting social standards as a guarantee of the standard of living of a certain quality that the State undertakes to provide to its citizens? Let me answer that. The legal principles for the formation and application of state social standards and norms aimed at the implementation of the basic social guarantees established by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine are defined by the Ukrainian Act on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees, which was adopted as early as October 2000. The basic national social standard is a minimum of living, based on the size of basic State social security guarantees, which relate to minimum wage, minimum pension, state social assistance and other social benefits. Ukraine's State Budget Act 2010, 2011 increased the social standards against the size of 2009. I'd like to draw your attention to the ingredients of this promotion in the last two years. Yes, the subsistence minimum for 2010-2011 was increased by 43.2 per cent, the minimum wage by 49.7 per cent, the minimum pension by 39.7 per cent. Help for the birth of a child has increased considerably. For the first child from 12,000 240 in 2009 to 26 out of 100 in December 2011. For the second child, between 25,000 and 52,000 dollars, and for the third and every next child, between 50,000 and 104,000 dollars. In doing so, it should be noted that the largest number of State social standards has been approved and introduced into the social services and educational institutions. Much work has been done in the field of social work with children, young people and various categories of health and housing care families. In order to improve the effectiveness of the social standards system in Ukraine, work will continue to improve social standards. The MP's Reforms for the Future. Questions. The problems faced by the State today in fulfilling their social obligations are acutely faced by society, especially in view of the need to organize the social benefits and guarantees system. This raises the question: Does the government have the concept of reforming social policy today? Let me answer that. Ukraine’s legislation provides for the provision of various types of benefits to many categories of citizens. About a third of the country’s population is entitled to benefits. At the same time, benefits in Ukraine are provided without taking into account the income of the taxpayers. Citizens who have received an income tax benefit benefit from the State guarantee regardless of their personal income and material status. So a person gets a salary of tens of thousands of dollars and has the right to travel free of charge in the transport of general benefits from housing and utilities, etc. And that's why the system of aid in Ukraine certainly needs reform. I would like to say that the current government has defined the main thrusts of the reform of the social support system by the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme. Such reforms are one of the top priorities in the social sphere of our state and the activities of our government. A number of measures are envisaged to improve the effectiveness of social protection, including the targeting of all types of social support, including benefits, and the introduction of economic and social justifications for the provision of benefits and subsidies. In order to do so, we need to make appropriate changes to the legislation that is being handled by the government today and that have already been partially transferred to the Supreme Council. And we hope that together the government and the Supreme Council will work. And we will actually get with you a reform of the social policy system that will enable us to do everything we can to ensure that the least protected sections of the population, as required by the President of Ukraine, receive the greatest social support from the state. Ukraine's Communist Party MP, the question: "The 2010-2011 minimum of living, as in the previous government, is determined on the basis of a set of food, non-food and services approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2000. The difference between the actual subsistence minimum and the established State Budget Act, which is 15-20 percent a month. Its calculation is outdated and does not meet international standards at all. When will the Ministry's unemployment end and measures be taken to modernize the methodology for the formation of a subsistence minimum with the aim of preventing the underemployment of pensions, wages and assistance to low-income populations?" Let me answer that. In 2010, the government granted a step-by-step increase in the subsistence minimum, and this was confirmed to the extent that the Act on the establishment of a minimum of living and minimum wage had foreseen. Yes, the subsistence minimum for one person in December 2010 exceeded the corresponding minimum of living for December 2009, I'm paying you 24.8 percent. At the same time, for the working people and those who lost their jobs, it was also the last, depending on 23.9 percent and 28.1 percent. For 2011, according to the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 Act, the subsistence minimum is approved by taking into account the projected consumer price index. With the aim of improving and updating food sets, non-food products, and sleep - forming services, last December, the work of an expert committee to review new kits was completed. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that this committee is made up of representatives from both the government and the trade unions and employers. There is a need to determine that out of 432 active positions of 60, consumption is increased, as well as complemented sets of 20 items. A draft government decision on the approval of these sets, which is being prepared by the central executive authorities and the social partners. At the same time, it is envisaged to create an inter-agency working group to prepare proposals in 2012 for the further updating of accommodation minimum kits, which will be reviewed by the peer review committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u5	Yes, thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the question. Yeah, 30 minutes. Please, the Final One. Behind him is Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u6	I'd like to give you a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u7	Pussy, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u9	So who's Hellfire or Stoyan?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u10	I'm telling you, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u11	Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u12	Dear reporter, well, I'll tell you, you called the good social settings and called the living minimum. But here's what I want to ask you. Since 2000, the basket has not been inspected. Neither our governments, which are now in power, nor the governments of Tymoshenko, who have been in power, are now just talking. And the subsistence basket is attached to it, you know, the subsistence minimum and all the social parameters. I know that Basil Hara has informed us that according to the trade agreements, the basket is already counted. I would like to ask you: When will the Supreme Council of Ukraine be given a valuable amount of living basket? And when are you going to enter a completely different minimum of living? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u13	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Dear National Deputy, distinguished National Deputies! Of course, as we have discussed with you today, it is quite fair to note that the processing of the subsistence basket of non-food goods and services at which the minimum of living is formed requires further work. What has been done by today’s active government in this direction? In order to optimize the situation, an appropriate expert committee was formed, consisting of representatives of the government, representatives of the trade side, and representatives of employers. They worked together, and according to experts, they upgraded positions in a part of the operating basket. I'd like to prove to you that out of the 432 active positions that are invested in the minimum of living, we've increased consumption by 60, respectively, and we've added 20 more items to the corresponding set. A list has been prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u14	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u15	an appropriate decision that is now being processed by the central executive authorities and social partners. We hope that in the near future this will be done and, accordingly, as you set out correctly, it will be submitted for final approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u16	Stojko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u17	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, MP for Ukraine! Dear Vassil Ivanovich, you've been told a lot about social politics, payouts, payouts and so forth. But today, I think millions of people are expecting from you, from Mr. Tihyp, exactly something about, say, your planned retirement reform. And that's why I'd like you to make a statement right now, perhaps the main ones that are going to change that bill that you're going to submit to the Supreme Council. Please, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u18	Thank you for asking. Let me answer that. You said quite conveniently that there are certain grounds for making changes to pension insurance. There's a couple of reasons for that, I'd like to call it the main ones. The main reason is demographic, the low level of pensions for most people. How do you know that two thirds of our pensioners get a pension of up to 1,000 dollars? At the same time, the average amount of so-called special pensions, i.e. pensions under separate laws, is at least 2.5 times the average amount of pensions assigned on general terms, i.e. what we say is so-called labor. There are also some problems with the Pension Fund’s budget. But given all of this, the proposals made today were published. And that bill, which has been properly discussed, including with honourable deputies, continues to be worked on. Why, because as has been done by President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy, the government as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u20	The government handled it accordingly, held bush meetings in areas where representatives of trade unions, employers, the public, professionals, and all those who wanted to offer something on the subject were invited. So today, briefly to finish, all of these proposals are gathered. I'd like to say that there are some contradictions in these proposals, but we'll be working on and going to the Supreme Council as soon as possible. That is, the final version of the proposals for legislative changes in pension reform will be made to the Supreme Council, where it will be adopted in the form of changes to legislation by the professional committees and in this important Hall. So once again, I'd like to tell you, honourable national MPs, and distinguished listeners, and televisers, that in any case, all the proposals prepared by the government will be publicly discussed and adopted by the national parliament in accordance with the legislation in force. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u21	Thank you. Schmellow's handing it over to Zybenko. Please. Behind him is Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u22	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear Vassil Ivanovich, government officials today say quite a lot about the stability of the situation in the social protection part of the least protected population, particularly veterans. And that includes raising social standards. I'm still taking this conversation as an intention, as a declaration of intent. They're right, they're good, but they're still up for it. And in this connection, two questions. Question one. The president of Ukraine, welcoming veterans to the 66th anniversary celebrations, made a number of proposals for strengthening social protection. Could you specify them now in numbers and in dates? And the second question. Please tell me what is the fate of the decisions that the courts have made in favour of the veterans in the area of social protection. I mean, kids. Call the children of war, the participants in the battle for mutual assistance, and so forth and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u23	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Thank you. And with your permission, let me answer that. Dear People's Deputies! Dear colleagues! These, of course, which the President has expressed as the directions for reforming social policy, part of strengthening the protection of our venerable veterans, who were announced at the celebration of the anniversary of the Great Victory, are today taken by the Ministry of Social Policy for specific processing. I can't give you a final offer today, but I'd like to report it to you and, accordingly, to yours. in your person and your esteemed organization, the Council of Veterans, which is coming up soon, no later than making changes to the relevant legislation, including the budget, we are working on all of these measures, because today this low number of proposals proposed by the President are being dealt with by the Ministry of Social Policy experts on how to implement them, with the Ministry of Finance experts on financial security. How do you realize that this is not possible without financial security, as well as other ministries and departments, because it is also very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u24	Finish it, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u25	Finally. Everything about the development of other payments, about what you asked, the second question. Well, I'd like to say that in this direction we're working, and there are certainly suggestions, including by increasing, for example, the same one-off payment until 9 May. As you know, this year we have raised this to some extent to the participants in the war in Afghanistan, other military conflicts. And we hope that this policy will be pursued not only for 2012 as an ideology, but in general for 2015 and beyond, because today the realisation of these payments is an urgent task for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u26	Vladimir Moses. After him, Vyzyvski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u27	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Please pass the word to Karpuk Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u28	Microphone, please, Carpuca.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u29	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear Vassil Ivanovich, one of President Yanukovic's first decrees was the Order on Urgent Measures to Eliminate Poverty. However, for 2010, there was an indicator, bringing this figure to 21.3 percent. This is not done: more than 25 percent. More than 13 percent are below the poverty line. This, by the way, has been noted by the Committee on Social Policy, where the majority are made up of representatives of the regions. Who is personally responsible for failing to comply with the President's decree, while the Supreme Council's draft bill on the write-off of energy debts to the State budget is worth almost 24 billion dollars? That's exactly the kind of money that would be directed when you go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. Let me answer that. Of course, the problem of overcoming poverty remains very relevant, and today it is one of the main tasks that the state should perform. What's more, it's key if we're talking about this problem in the social sphere that we're talking about today. I would like to tell you that, given the importance of solving the poverty problem in 2010, one of the first came out, as you rightly said, of the President of Ukraine's decree on urgent measures to overcome poverty. The strategic orientations, tasks and concrete measures to address poverty eradication are reflected in the General Programme on Poverty Reduction and Prevention by 2015, as provided for by the President's Decree, which has been developed and developed by the President. Another 12 co-executors were involved, this is Minfin, Mineconomy, Min. Ministry of Education and Culture, Youth and Sports, Health, Ministry of Energy, Industry, Coal Ministry of Regional Development, Housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u31	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u32	But what I'd like to say is, just to be clear, the National Academy of Sciences, the representatives of trade unions and employers, the project is being worked out and we think it's going to work. It must come out as a complex view of the activity program in this direction. We believe that today, considering the relevance of this situation, it will be worked out and that a comprehensive programme on this issue will be adopted accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u33	Vladimir Viezowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u34	Vladimir Vizewski, "Our Ukraine", Lvivščina. I have a document on my hands -- the decision of the Social Policy and Labour Committee. I quote: "There are about a quarter of the population of Ukraine outside of poverty, and the poverty rate is 13 percent. There are many arguments about the activities of today’s government. In summary, the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in ensuring the implementation of the President's decree is that the President who formed this government is not satisfied. In particular, it is proposed that the government once again make a number of decisions that would improve the lives of our people, especially the people that the state should provide, namely those who have been employed by the State — doctors, teachers and pensioners — to those who have already worked for more than a decade. And so I'd like to know in what way you'd like, how much more time it would take for the government to comply with a presidential decree that was adopted more than a year ago and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. Let me answer that. I would like to give you a few examples in my answer, dear colleagues. Well, first of all, today's government is operating in the conditions in which it is operating today, and accordingly, regardless of what it is, and certain economic, both global problems related to the world economy and, accordingly, the financial problems of the world system, despite the problems that exist, I would like to stress: unlike our predecessors, who did not raise social standards in 2009, we raised the minimum wage, we raised pensions, other social benefits in 2010, the corresponding increase took place in 2011. With regard to budgeters, a decision has been made from the discussion that took place between the unions and the government, according to which there is an increased salary for teachers, doctors, social benefits, and additional payments. I think we can expect, and the honourable session hall in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u36	Vladimir Filenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u37	Vladimir Philenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Reform and Order Party. Dear Vassil Ivanovich, when I asked your colleague Yuri Hivrich last time at government hearings, how can you stand such a tax burden on municipal fees and prices, he found nothing better to say that the government went "to"***. Well, as we can see, the government hasn't gone anywhere, and in the same warehouse it's sitting in a government bed right now. Next, you're talking about a promotion. At the same time, you're deceiving that these increases are completely unsurpassed by price increases and by the increase in utility bills. Next, you suppose that you plan to stop the social benefits in 16 categories: the Chernobyls, the war participants, the children of war, you keep it quiet, and the Prime Minister’s mouth recommends not to whine, but the brothers to shovel. People are ready to take shovels and other salt-spanners. As you plan to deal with these problems, the government will.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. Let me answer that. First of all, I'd like to say in the residential sector. The toolkit that the government is offering our citizens, including housing services, is certainly an institution of housing subsidies. As you know, subsidies in our country are the most liberal in their approach and the simplest in their form. Once again, I'd like to prove to the people's honourable deputies that today we have 1 million families in April who receive housing subsidies. So these families spend on housing services, if they're pensioners, not more than 10 percent of their gross income and not more than 15 if they're a working family. For our part, we have done and will do policies to promote and improve the grant system. As for what things are offered and what will be done next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u39	Mitz Orestes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u40	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. Dear Vassil Ivanovich! At present, the pensioners of Ternopolska are very concerned about the fact that the pension deficit will provide timely payment of pensions. Because Ternopilska is such a country that 1 out of 3 lives in retirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u41	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. The only phrase for the previous answer. Dear colleagues, all about the prospects for social development and the size of social assistance and payments, and for 2012 the approaches that existed in 2010 and 2011 as part of the increase in these payments will be proposed by the government in order to confirm this as an indicator of the 2012 budget. In the same part of the question of the honourable National Deputy on the Pension Fund and its financial security, I would like to prove to you and to everyone else the next position of an active government, regardless of the financial situation in the Pension Fund, the pensions have been paid, paid, and will always be paid at the proper time. Because the financial security of the Pension Fund, including in part of the State Budget, has been calculated, implemented and approved by Parliament, and is properly handled by the government. So there just can't be a break in pension payments. If there are any individuals somewhere, it is an exception for which specific workers should be responsible. There is a fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u43	Igor Rybakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u44	Igor Rybakov. The MP's Reforms for the Future. In Ukraine, the poverty rate is 80 per cent, which means that every eight Ukrainians out of ten are below the poverty line. That is, the subsistence minimum as a basis for social indicators such as wages, pensions, subsidies, assistance does not provide the necessary level of income for citizens. In the European Union or America, other countries are doing much better. Attention, the question is, when will the average wage in Ukraine be the same as in Europe, between 20,000 and 40,000 euros per year, and for what?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. Allow me to answer. Of course, and as this has been said in this room today, there are problems that we need to deal with and direct all our social policies, first of all, to help the most vulnerable. And in an appropriate way, do everything you can to make the social protection and social sense of our population much better. Because in this direction it's being done by the Ministry of Social Policy. First. The development of social standards and their promotion has been taking place for two years, and we will be proposing the same policy for 2012 when the 2012 budget is approved. Next. It's doing everything we can to get us to raise the minimum wage and, in general, to increase wages. Because I would like to say that the increase that will take place in our esteemed budgeters starting on July 1st will greatly improve.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u46	Jaroslav Kedzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u47	Adam Ivanovich! For the coolest question to the deputy minister, please give my word to Jaroslav Mikhailovich Sukhima.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u48	Yes, the union is suspicious. Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u49	Thank you. The Union is a normal, union of normal people who care about social life in the country. I want my question to be heard by First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Andri Petrovich Klovev. Dear Vassil Ivanovich! Whose fault is it that, for the first time in all of Ukraine's years of independence in 2011, has a half-year of decommissioned sanatorium, namely, rehabilitation of the elderly after severe diseases: strokes, heart attacks? Six months in 2005, the bad oranges were destroyed for three months, but then we fixed them. For six months, no tenders are made. And the question of poverty. What prevents you from returning the complex program? In 2008, she was expelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u50	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of Jaroslav! I'll answer with your permission. First of all, everything about healing. In accordance with the Law on State Procurement, appropriate tender procedures were carried out. Today, according to the procedures undertaken, starting on May 10th of the current year, there have been visits to health care, to sanatorium and health care for citizens, and accordingly this procedure has gone away. What prevented us from doing this a little earlier? Regrettably, the legislation that existed before this year was able to prolong past agreements, and, accordingly, by working out contracts for the following year, to continue to heal at the beginning of the year under the old treaties. [[Act on State Procurement of the Last Editorial]] We have not been able to do so today, but once again, since May 10, recovery and appropriate procedures have begun.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u51	Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Stanislav Arjevetin. Adam Ivanovich, but I would like to ask whose invitation here appeared in the Supreme Council such figures as:
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u53	Please, it's Arjevitin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u54	Vasil Ivanovich, I'm right here on your right. Please tell me the answer to the question asked by Deputy Karpuk: how will your social policy be implemented in connection with the miscalculations of almost 300 billion that have been discussed? And my question. You know, any socio-economic policy can't be implemented without a cash flow, so without a banking system. Any economic growth is impossible without credit, and I am convinced that any successful social policy cannot be implemented without the social responsibility of the banking system. And questions to you. Today's the day of the banker. Could you welcome the bankers out of your mouth, and I think they would consider it an increase in social responsibility to society.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u55	I fully agree that, as the poet wrote, "all professions are important, all professions are good." So certainly by welcoming the bankers, I would like to make a single request from the Ministry of Social Policy. Socially responsible business predicts that those who have the opportunity will be able to help those who need it accordingly. So by welcoming the bankers again, I would like to turn to them and to all who today have both a financial and an economic resource. What if we combine the efforts of the state, the public, the economy, the financial sphere to overcome the problems that we have in the social sphere, I am confident, then we will have much sooner the changes that we are talking about today. So let people be happy in their activities and everything they've planned, but whatever it takes, first and foremost, for the benefit of our population. Part of what you have rightly said is that without a financial basis, change is impossible. So I'd like to prove to you that these are the promotions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u56	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u57	These increases to budget staff, which will take place from July 1st to July 1st, and to the increase in the size of the first salary, and the variance of the inter-employment difference, are all because we have increased budget revenues. And the government today has the resources it directs primarily to the social component of its policy. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u58	Vladimir Jaroschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u59	Pecklace, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u60	Microphone, please, Pecknut.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I would like to thank Andrei Petrovich Kluev and the Government, which is almost entirely here today. But at the same time, my heart bleeds when I see how many public people are here today when there are issues that need to be addressed. Today, if there is a topic, the social theme is half the ministers on this topic, although they are relevant, but it is better that Friday is the day of the ministerial departure to the regions. Let it be the Deputy Prime Minister, let it be sent by the Minister, but the main mass of the Cabinet of Ministers on Friday should go to the regions rather than waste time. Ten percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, this is the requirement of two laws, which are called the First Act of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Second Act of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The third is what the ministers will hear from us, and they will hardly hear anything like that. That is why there is a benefit. Wonderful, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u63	Thank you. I've already heard the answer to the last question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u64	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's thank Vasil Ivanovich. Let's thank Vasil Ivanovich. As long as I thank you, this will take a minute. We thank the Cabinet of Ministers who really came and had the opportunity to take questions to the government in our "hour of questioning." Thank you. Have a seat, please. There was a question, I say, that the honourable colleagues, we are meeting in Ukraine these days in liaison groups between the State Duma and Ukraine. And therefore, the co-chairs of the State Duma MP in connection with the Ukrainian Parliament, namely, Constantine Fedorovich Zatulin and Sergey Alexanderovich Markov, are present at our meeting of the Supreme Council, let us welcome them. [[Applause]] Yes, dear fellows, we are continuing our meetings. At the request of two MP factions: "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", "Blok Timoshenko – "Fatherland" – a request for a recess or a speech. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u65	Thank you. From the parliamentary rostrum, your honor, we'd like to rephrase the question of Yuri Lucenka. His health and life are at risk. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and the faction "BUT" "Fatherhood" in turn requires the authorities to immediately release Lucenka from custody. The slightest delay after a month’s hunger can have tragic consequences. George Lucenko took extreme action to protect his human dignity and enforce the law. The Public Prosecutor’s Office has taken responsibility for the health and life of the opposition politician, and now cynically gives counsel, he said, to file a complaint in court. Indeed, the investigation has been completed, and the cases have been referred to the courts. The Ex-Minister was long overdue, but the authorities applied double standards to him. In the wild, those who beat citizens, shot, and abused millions and billions of people quietly walk. The prosecutor's office is incriminating 970,000 bracelets, more than 90 percent of which are celebrations, by the way, of the day of the militia. And the sad one, for example, the Livela company, which imports untaxed gasoline, has heated the budget for several billion dollars. And no one is detained, not even summoned to the Henprosecutor's Office. The selective and political nature of the persecution of Yuri Lucenka is particularly evident. 87 members of our factions have appealed to the Cave Court to release him immediately from custody. About a hundred signatures have been collected to take Yuri Lucenka into custody. If necessary, we are also ready to make an immediate payment for him, the full amount that Lucenk is incriminating. This is an agreed position among the signatories. Then all the formal pincers will be gone for his further detention. If George Lucenko is not released immediately, all responsibility for the possible tragic consequences of his hunger will rest entirely with power and its supreme leadership. Today, in protest against the persecution of opposition politicians and our demands, we leave the session hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, allow me to make a statement of parliamentary inquiries. The following parliamentary questions came. Andrija Kožemyakina to the Head of the Supreme Council, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General, the Head of the State Penitentiary Service for Gross Violations of Criminal Procedure Law, international legal acts for the protection of human rights and freedoms in the course of criminal investigation and illegal detention under the custody of the former Head of State Customs Service, Anatolia Makarenko. Alexander Cnervolenka to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the cessation of illegal detention in the hostages of the first issue of "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" by Yuri Lucenka. Vladimir Karpuk and Jaroslav Suhogo to the Human Rights Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister, on the use of measures to improve and develop political assistance in Ukraine, including ensuring access to effective and timely annihilation for citizens with incurable diseases. Leonidas Grač to the Human Rights Council, the Attorney General, on political persecution and illegal criminal offence against the Deputy High Council of the Republic of Crimea Viacheslav Zakharov. Vadim Grivkowski to Prime Minister for Dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request for annulment of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 529 of 20 May 2009. Valeria Calchenk to the Prime Minister for financing the construction of gas pipelines in Kirovograd. Valerija Shamanov to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the Biljavské festivities in the territory of the Triochizben Rural Council in the Luhansk region. Vladimir Lešchenka to the Prime Minister to ensure that families of former military personnel are relocated from the village of Hončarovska Chernigiv region in Montenegro. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister on the initiative of Peter Simonenko to deprive the Ukrainian city of Lviv of the right to host the 2012 European football championship. Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister on the state of implementation and prospects for a project to build a large ring road around Kiev. Igor Golovchenka to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of a public education school in the village of Nevicke Uzhgrad district of Zakarpat. Catherine Vasuk to the Prime Minister for the delay in funding production programs in the agricultural sector of Volin. Valeria Calchenk to the Prime Minister for the payment of debts from the wages of the former employees of the Society with limited responsibility for industrial production, the merged company Explerent to the citizens of Love Kravchenko and Valentin Kukhovarova. Grigory Smituha to the Prime Minister for the elimination of delays in repairing the road area of the general use of "Kamen-Kashirsky-Police-Olene-Rudka-Chervinska" in the Volinsk region. Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister on the prospects for improving the construction, reconstruction and repair of Ukraine's highways and increasing funding for its proper functioning. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister regarding the allocation of funds from the State budget for the completion of the construction of the school in the village of Solodiri Volin, in the province of Zitomir. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister on the use of measures to involve passengers on public transport routes of vehicles equipped with devices designed to enter and transport passengers in wheelchairs. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Head of the State Medical and Drug Control Service, to verify the legality of the overpricing of medical devices in the network of drug pharmacies in Kiev, other regions of Ukraine, and to take measures to prevent artificial price increases in medical devices. Olega Láška to the Prime Minister on the inappropriate reaction of the deputy head of the Kiev City Office of the Doubchenk to the request of the National Deputy regarding the unacceptable burden by the officials of the Kiev City Government on the entry into operation and transfer to the settlement of the building, which is being built by the Society with limited responsibility of "Ukrmishkbud-1" at the address: Kyiv, housing stock of "Osocorki-North". Orestes Mutz to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Financial Inspectorate, the First Deputy Chief, the Chief of the Department of Crime Management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ternopil district, regarding the involvement of the head of the CIA of the Ternopil region in the illegal possession of property of the municipal enterprise "Recreational base of the "Restraint". Alexander Fomin to the Prime Minister for the non-payment of salaries to the employees of the Kharkiv State Agrolisomeliorative Company Harkovoblagrolis. Alexander Shepeleva to the Prime Minister on the use of measures to prevent the disconnection of centralized water supply in Lugansk. Paul Mouchcana to the Prime Minister on the threat of the elimination of the English Language Editor-in-Chief, "World Broadcasting Service of Ukraine". Orestes Mutza to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Interior, the Head of the State Tax Service, the First Deputy Chief, the Head of the Directorate for Combating the Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Ternopil area, regarding the inaction of the Head of the Agro-Industrious Development Directorate of the Ternopil district government administration, Andria Homa, his contribution to the abuse of state funds of the owners of the agrohölding "Mria" and the limited liability society of Bouchahrohlibprom", his participation in fraud schemes. Alexander Schepeleva to the Prime Minister on the use of measures to ensure that children's hospitals are provided with the necessary vaccine to carry out the vaccination. Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister for the establishment of the Hemodialysis Center at the Zvenigrad Reilikarska District. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the Minister for Education and Science, Youth and Sports, the heads of the Lviv District Administration, the Head of the Borislav Province of Lviv Region, on the immediate implementation of the President's instructions to the Steering Board of the Economic Reform Committee on the non-substantial reduction in the number of secondary schools in the State, on the verification of the facts contained in the collective statement signed by thousands of militants on the illegal, motivated, closure of the heads of the Borislav City Council of the general school No. 7 of Borislav Lviv district. Eugene Kzarykov to Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Infrastructure, Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Odessa City Head for the preservation of the monuments of garden and park art and the natural-intelligence fund of the Victory Park of Odessa and for the protection of the public interests of the city. Jury Karamzin to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Attorney-General for the use of emergency response measures to prevent infringements of property and housing rights by investors of the multi-story housing complex "Fontan Housing and Building Co-operative", located in Odessa, verification of the facts associated with these illegal activities of contractual entities, restoration of the specified immovable property and the imposition of liability. Igora Ribakova to Deputy Prime Minister is the Minister of Social Policy for the violation of current legislation during a tender for the purchase of food services for Chernobyl children from the Kamen Qashi District of Volin Region. Oleg Zarubinsky to Deputy Prime Minister is the Minister of Social Policy for the provision of State support to persons who are members of families of military personnel who died during the Great War. Jurija Gnatkević to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, on the measures taken to implement the Ukrainian Law on Uniting Co-owners of Multi-Apartment Houses and to monitor the implementation of its provisions. Groups of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Financial Inspectorate, the State Mortgage Institution, the Kyiv District Office, the Executive Committee of the Biloczerk City Council on the need to warn of possible abuses in the purposeless use of State budget funds aimed at the construction of apartments in the city of Bila Church for military personnel released from the supply or resignation of the Armed Forces, by means of a comprehensive examination of the facts set out in addressing these military personnel who are in the housing of the executive committee of the Belarus City Council, and the need for appropriate action. [[Bondica, Prutnik and others. Total 4 deputies]] Mikoli Shershun to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the appeal of members of the District Council of the Year – Mikhail Mastalar and others on the raising of electricity tariffs. Elina Shishkina to the Head of State for Public Administration for information on government donations. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister of Internal Affairs on urgent measures to prevent provocations by members of the aggressive anti - Ukrainian forces who intend to arrive with red flags on June 22 to the city of Lviv. Mikoli Shershun to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade for the Prevention of the Breakdown of the Summer Health of Children in the Plains Region, which was affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports on the effectiveness of the system for the submission of documents by graduates for admission to higher educational institutions via the Internet. Dmitry Schlemk to the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the absence of a reply to the MP's appeal by the Head of the Kharkiv City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kharkiv region of Mikola Fomenka and the formal write-off of the temporary duty of the Chief of the Moscow District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kharkiv district of Kysilla on the illegal actions of the employees of the Kharkiv Regional Institute of State Administration of the National Academy of State at the President of Ukraine. Sergey Vlasenka to the Minister of Finance for the improper implementation of the law on the status of the National Deputy Minister of Finance, Shewchenkom, and for the full text of the results of the examination of the use of budgetary resources by the legal companies "TRAUT KETCHERIS PI EL SIE", AEKEN GAMP STRAUSS AND FELD EL PI, "KROLL", part of which is closed. Vladimir Leshchenka to the head of the Holding Fund regarding the privatisation obligations of the new owners of the Open Shareholders Association "Ukratlekom". Sergei Gordienka to the Minister of Finance, Head of the State Road Service on the inclusion of Lubna Poltava region in budget programmes that can be channelled to the local budget of the city to address socio-economic development and construction problems, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of municipal property. Jurija Gnatkevich to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the non-refoulement of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the Office of Human Resources Management of the Supreme Council of Official ID of Mikoli Larionova, convicted of the murder of a drug dealer allegedly committed by him 13 years ago. Eugene Kzarykov to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Security Service regarding the acts of vandalism on Victory Day and the mockery of veterans of the Great Homeland War. Victor Sinchenk to the Attorney General regarding the fraudulent activities of employees of the private enterprise Abris-Alpha in the production of technical documentation for the land areas of the inhabitants of the village of Stavi Kagarlitsky district of Kyiv district. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the illegal eviction by officials of the Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Sumskie district of citizen Matyash from her personal residence, not responding to this fact by the Prosecutor's Office of the Sum district and improper control by the Attorney-General's Office. Gregory Smythukh to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the appointment of a test on the involvement of State authorities and law enforcement agencies in the Society's limited-liability agricultural enterprise Nibulon. Valerija Beviz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violation of electoral legislation by officials of the municipal election commission of the city of Mogilov-Podilski Vinnitsky region is the timing of the organization and holding of the election of the Mogilov-Podilski city head on October 31, 2010, which led to the election of the city head of a foreign national. Basil Wooden to the Attorney General about the provocations of the head of the Ternopil district government administration and the heads of law enforcement agencies, which, contrary to the current Ukrainian legislation, allowed the Provokers to enter the area and use the Soviet red flags on May 9. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney General on the violation of the legal rights and interests of a young girl named Anna Dudchenko and her mother, Larissa Dudchenko, by way of the inaction of the law enforcement authorities in informing them of the crimes committed under the previous conspiracy of the persons behind the forged documents. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the criminal case against the judge of the Mikolaiiv District Court of the Lviv Region of Demyanovsky for deliberately ordering an unfair decision and interference with the authorities of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the State Executive Service of Ukraine, thereby paralyzing the work of their structural units, violating the rights of natural and legal persons and causing damage to the state. The Lord of Borodin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on a criminal case in connection with the arbitrary seizure of the land by Safari Park in Bilogirsk of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Olega Lalashka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take action in response to the illegal night interrogation of the Philippines, which resulted in his being seriously reinstated. Alexander Chernomorov to the Attorney-General on the corruption of civil servants of the State Environmental Protection Authority in the Kyiv region, deliberately delaying officials of the DA's office of the Pechersky district to investigate the fact of receiving bribes and ill-consideration of a parliamentary appeal in a legal term. Sergey Pavlenko to the Attorney General on the violation of the rights of the employees of the Society with limited responsibility for the city of Dommetprom in the Snowy Donetsk Region and the examination of the activities of the enterprise. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to provide an answer by the prosecutor of the Mikolai district to a parliamentary appeal regarding possible misconduct by officials of the Spezagropromtrans Association of the city of Woznesenska and an improper response to violations of the law by the prosecutor's authorities. Sergey Gordienka to the Attorney General on the need to conduct a comprehensive, impartial study of the fact that the violation is justified and that the criminal case is not falsified with respect to the leaders of the Open Shareholders Association, Simferopol International Airport. Tarasa Crnovola to the Attorney General regarding the provision of incomplete information regarding the maintenance of the Sun’s watch. Jurya Litvina to the Attorney General on the illegal removal of sand from the "Verhnja" holiday area in the Obolonia region of Kiev. Jury Odarchenka to the Attorney General on the circumstances of the unlawful decision of the Vorosilov District Court of Donetsk and the preservation of the property of the territorial community of the Herson Park of Jubilee. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General's Office to verify that the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office have committed a criminal offence against the former National Deputy, the ex-Head of the Shevchenk district office in Kiev, the Government Administration of the Philippines. [[Vaszczuk, Sharov and others. Total nine deputies]] Groups of national deputies to the Attorney General regarding the abuse of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The platypus, the Hare, and others. Total eight deputies]] Roman Zabzaluk to the Head of the Security Service for the non-response to the MP's request for possible illegal actions by officials of the Marine Soldiers of the Dominican Region and the Ukrainian Security Service in the Mikolai region. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Lviv District Public Administration, the Prosecutor of the Lviv Region, the Lviv City Head, on the provision of information on the mass public action planned in Lviv on June 22 and the use of comprehensive measures envisaged by the current legislation regarding the non-repetition of incidents and conflict situations that took place on May 9 during the celebration of the Lviv Victory. [[Chapel, Crnovola, Denkovich]] Jury Litvina to the prosecutor of the Kirovograd district, head of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Kirovograd region, for the verification of abuses by officials of the local government of the Kotov village council of the province of Kirovograd in the area of land relations. Vadim Grivkovski, head of the Kiev City State Administration, explains how to reduce public service tariffs in Kiev by removing areas of sports, children’s and other playgrounds from the area of the building. Sergei Pavlenko to the head of the Kyiv City Administration regarding the arrangement of a rest zone near Rajodny Lake in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Alexia Plotnikov to the Kyiv City State Administration, Kyivo-Svetoshinsky District State Administration of the Kyiv Region, on the need to review the facts presented in the address of the inhabitants of the Holy Region of Kiev, Valentina Lipski on the use of measures to provide hot water on the permanent basis of House No. 3 on Baturin Street. Yes, and an interesting request from Alexander Cronvolencek to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the action of a non-State actor, the National Deputy of Ukraine Laska, who presided over the sessions of the Supreme Council by First Deputy Martinyuk. Dear colleagues, all the questions you've come up with right now, you're familiar with them. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 131 of the Rules, we need to clarify the Ukrainian Supreme Council's adoption of the Act of May 12th amending certain Ukrainian legislation on joint activity. During the drafting and preparation of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, the text revealed disagreements that were highlighted in the comments of the main legal administration. [[on joint activities]] Taking into account the initiative of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, and in accordance with article 131 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposals are being submitted to the Supreme Council for the elimination of disagreement in the text of the law, by replacing the words "statutory fund" with the words "statutory capital" in the corresponding number and difference, i.e. throughout the text of the law, instead of the word "statutory fund" with the legal word "statutory capital". Please vote in favour of these clarifications. [[11:15:17]] For 231 Dear colleagues! Let's move on to now. What's the lead? Something wrong with the chairman again? Do you want to be instead of Easy, please. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u67	Adam Ivanovich! I'm making an offer for the session hall. Today's "Government Day", there were 10 Ukrainian national deputies from the opposition. So many calls, the noise was under the walls of the Supreme Council yesterday. Today, it was possible to express our position and stand up for our views. Now in the session room, I'm offering to re-register with e-cards, and whoever's missing today is going to take away their salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u68	Registration takes place at a morning and evening session before the beginning. Dear colleagues! We are discussing the issue of the 2010 National Council of Ukraine report on television, radio talk. Allow me to remind you of a few normative acts that we hear from the report. The report is being heard in accordance with the Ukrainian National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting Act. The National Council in accordance with Article 16 of this Law annually, I reiterate, should report to the Supreme Council, and we will listen to this report today. Once again, there's nothing extraordinary. This is a series of compliance with the requirements of legislation. In accordance with the Rules, we will build our work in this way. The report is given 20 minutes. As long as he's speaking, that's his business. But not more than 20 minutes. Within 20 minutes, we will have the right to ask him questions. And then, if there's a need and the Supreme Council decides, we'll discuss it. But let's probably not do that later, let's just say that we're going to talk about whether or not we're going to discuss the report. I'm proposing, and you're already determined that there's nothing to discuss, and I think during the report and the questions that we ask, we're going to hear what we want to hear. So there's no need to put the debate to a vote? Okay. Thank you. I invite the head of the National Television and Radio Board of Manjosov Vladimir Anatoliyovich, please. Bondarenko Helena will be speaking from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u69	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Today, for the first time in several years, a report by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio is being considered in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so the full reporting procedure of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio is being restored, and this is very important to us. Because we will also hear a full evaluation of our activities according to the law of the two subjects who form the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio, namely, the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The following members of the National Council, the National Council of Ukraine report on television and radio broadcasting for 2010: Eugene Baranov, Oksana Glavatinko, Oksana Jelmanova, Vladimir Manjosov, Larissa Mudrak, Irina Apilat and Mikola Fartuszny. I would like to draw your attention immediately to the fact that this composition of the National Council has been finally formed and in this composition has only been in operation since 29 June 2010. Before that, the National Council worked, did not work mainly in the sessions. Dear National Deputies! During the reporting year, in 2010, 35 meetings were held by the National Council and 1,892 decisions were adopted. During this period, our regulator prepared three reporting documents, namely, the annual report of the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine and two reports on the compliance of radio organizations and Ukraine with the order of speech during the electoral campaigns in 2010. These reports of the National Council are submitted to the Central Electoral Commission. In 2010, the main task of the National Council was to open the door, introduce digital telephony in Ukraine. And I want to say that in this direction we have achieved what has been defined and implemented in real scale measures for the implementation of terrestrial digital telephony in accordance with the international plan "Geneva-2006" signed by our country. It was this component of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio in 2010 that initiated the development and development of a system of state coverage by digital signal. And we made these proposals to the President of Ukraine. Our proposals were endorsed by the President of Ukraine and by the mission of 22 October 2010 of the National Council of Ukraine, together with the National Communications Management Commission, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and other state authorities, are obliged to develop a national network of digital telephony in the DVB-T standards over the period 2010-2011, consisting of four digital multiplexes: MX-1, MX-2, MX-3 and MX-5. In December 2010, the Ministry of Justice registered a new plan for the development of a national television information space prepared by the National Council. And according to this plan, there are 5 stages in the introduction of digital ground-based air language in Ukraine. In December 2010, we called on the subject of entrepreneurial activities in the field of television and radio broadcasting to make suggestions regarding their view of the development of the national digital telephony network. And in December 2010, the National Council of Ukraine issued a software provider's license to build a national digital television network for Zeonbud. So we can say that if, starting in 2006, digital telephony has been very volatile, there has been no unity among public authorities in how to conduct this development, how to make the transition from channel language to digital. It was within a short period of time that the National Council, together with other government authorities, took an important step in solving this problem, a very important problem for the state and for its inhabitants, the people of Ukraine. I'm going to name a few basic figures that characterize the activities of our constitutional body during the reporting period, namely, in 2010. On December 31, 2010, the National Council issued 234 licences for its meetings. Among them are 147 language licenses, 87 software provider licenses. We also made appropriate changes at our meetings at the request of the radio organizations, up to 573 licenses. During the reporting period, the National Council extended 125 licenses on air and 4 licenses on satellite language. According to article 37 of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act during the reporting period, the National Council cancelled 66 language licenses and software provider licenses. But I'm pointing out that 52 licenses have been revoked at the request of television organizations. 10 – due to lack of language during the year, as prescribed by law. The 4 licences were revoked according to the court's decision to forfeit the validity of the licence. In 2010, the National Council, today’s National Council, solved a number of problems in a legislative and regulatory framework that has been hampering the development of the television industry for a long time. In particular, with the support of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has developed and introduced an amendment to article 31 of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act, which defines the mechanism for the registration of a licensing assembly that has been very imperfect to this day and has prevented the National Council from licensing certain activities in the field of television. According to the approved methodology, about 37 million dollars were recovered from the State Budget. Our methodology is approved, registered by the Ministry of Justice, and this is a normative document that we are guided by in our activities. Also in 2010, the National Council reviewed 18 bills and 2 drafts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which came to agree with the National Council, and accordingly made observations and proposals to these bills and draft Cabinet regulations. Betel - speaking is something that deserves special attention. You know that at the National Council I make critical remarks that a whole series of foreign television organizations have no ability to speak in Ukraine, they cannot be seen on cable networks in Ukraine. During the reporting period, 22 foreign channels were added to the list of foreign programmes that meet the requirements of the European Convention on Transborder Television and Retranslation in areas that are not restricted to Ukraine. By the end of 2010, the total number of such channels that are allowed to speak on cable networks in Ukraine is 131. One of the main functions of the National Council of Ukraine in the field of television is to monitor the compliance of television organizations with licensing conditions and the requirements of domestic law. In 2010, the National Council reviewed the results of 407 television tests. Of these, 300 planned, planned checks are carried out in the company's year of activity or in the case of company applications for extension of the licence period, and 107 pre-planned checks carried out by the National Council according to monitoring data, appeals by government agencies and Ukrainian citizens. For alleged violations, 57 radio organizations received warnings from the National Council. During the reporting period, the National Council increased its cooperation with international organizations, and we could say that we resumed this cooperation, which for some time was not as fruitful and not in the interests of the State of Ukraine. We participated in the EPRA meetings, which is the European Platform for Regulatory Authorities, which is a platform where regulators of all European countries gather. We work with the Council of Europe within the framework of the Action Plan of the Council of Europe for Ukraine and in particular in joint projects of the Council of Europe and the European Commission. Also during the reporting period, the National Council held meetings with representatives of international organisations in Ukraine, including the OSCE representative on media freedom and OSCE electoral experts. During the reporting period, the National Council’s apparatus was restructured, taking into account trends in administrative reform. We were eliminated by two management structures, two departments that existed on the National Council, and the regional secretariats of the National Council. There was a parallel rotation of specialists in both the National Council's central apparatus and in field representations. During the reporting period, the National Council intensified its work with public organizations, media, and other non - state institutions. I want to say that despite all the criticisms at the National Council's address, our meetings are open to journalists, representatives of industry and public organizations. After each meeting of the National Council, a briefing is made for the media. In 2010, we also updated the official website of the National Council. And all the decisions of the National Council that are taken at the National Council meetings, within two days of their adoption, are available to the entire public on our website, they are posted on our website. During the reporting period, the National Council updated the composition of the Public Council at the National Council and created another advisory body, an advisory body, an expert college, to participate in which we invited celebrities with great expertise in the field of television. Much attention was given at the National Council during the reporting period for children’s speech. Regrettably, the trend is that a large number of radio organizations plan and try to reduce the volume of child - speaking. The National Council does not accept such proposals from radio organizations. And we are planning to hold a round table this year on June 1st on the theme "Is everything okay for the children?" And also to host this year's Children's and Young Film Festival "The Crystal of Sources". I'm not going to say that the National Council, the National Council, has no problems. One of the main problems that we have is, of course, the lack of funding. In particular, only two such programs are funded from the five budget programs set up by the Ukrainian Law on the National Council. Many problems, many problems arise in the legislative sphere. Unfortunately, the National Council does not have the right to legislative initiative and is deprived of the opportunity to participate directly in the process of developing domestic legislation. Many of his positions are already very old. For example, further improvements are needed by articles of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act, which regulate that the language license issued by the National Council is the only and sufficient document on the right to speak. However, the law provides that then radio organizations should still receive a number of permits for communicators to use channels of speech. And so there is, in fact, a double-licensing practice. Some of the terms of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act need to be clearly defined. Let's say terms like "jern transmissions," "format transmissions." There is also a need to determine the procedure for applying and the size of fines for certain infringements of licenses in the current legislation of Ukraine and the terms of the licence. Dear National Deputies, the 2010 National Council Report, approved by the President of Ukraine, at the meeting of our committee of profile, namely the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, is also previously approved, so it is up to you. So I ask, on behalf of the National Council, to approve the 2010 report of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u70	Thank you, Volodymyr Anatolyovich. Yes, dear colleagues, if you would like to ask questions, please sign up. Yes, please, Katerina Samolik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u71	Thank you. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Well, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude for the fact that at last the National Council on Television and Radio is no longer an organ of one political power, as it was before. And I thank you for this, for democracy and for the fact that professionalism is the key to your work. I'd also like to raise a question and I'd like you to give a more detailed answer to questions about children's speech. We probably have different aspects of this child talk with you, but it's a very serious problem, because our television and radio should work for the future of our country, not in the same place. And that's why, really, we would like to have separate programs, or maybe a children's channel was working on the problems of our national traditions, the problems of parenting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u72	Please, Vladimir Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u73	Thank you for the address of the National Council. I've already said that, in fact, the principle position of the National Council during the consideration of the applications of television organizations is either until the license is renewed, or when the license is obtained, or when the license is redesigned. Our principle is that every national channel and local television channels, if they are not specialized channels, must be part of children’s programs. I've been saying that our principle is that we don't reshape licenses to companies that try to reduce the volume of child programs, because that's really our civic position, we understand that it's necessary for society. In addition, we gave discounts on the issue of licenses for availability.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u74	Vladimir Leschchenko. You have one minute to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u75	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymira Anatoliyovich, a report by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk, is truly large and meaningful. Here in the report, you've pointed out that measures have been taken to develop terrestrial digital telephony. Sadly, though, I did not hear exactly what the report said about the development of radio communication. And the radio talk is, for example, in Montenegro, it's in such a neglected state, especially on the wire. They close up in many areas, and you can no longer hear the voice of a district radio or a national radio in rural areas. And you know, in a rural area, radio is just like that, so that's the kind of information that's available to a simple person. What do you have to say as head of the National Council on this issue? How it will continue to develop by name.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. Regrettably, this does not depend solely on the National Council, the preservation of conductive speech. This is a problem that needs to be taken care of, well, first of all, by the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, under which is the National Radio Company of Ukraine, and by the local authorities. The National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio for the Conservation of National Radio can only take into account the availability of applications from the National Radio Company for the FM-speaking license and thus preserve the language, the national radio for our regions. The situation is complex with frequent resources known, especially in the border areas of Chernigivska. Anyway, I take your question as a parliamentary question, and we will, of course, be discussing today in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u77	Nadona, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u78	Please pass the word Gordijenko Sergio Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u79	Sergei Gordienka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u80	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Your Honor, you may know that there is a very serious problem in Poltavska when a number of districts in Poltavsk region do not have television coverage, including a frequent FM regime from a district centre that causes certain difficulties, and the authorities cannot prove their information. This is particularly true of Grbinkowski, Pirateninsky, and other areas. I have a question for you. Have you had any suggestions about it? in terms of frequency, which would be there in digital or any other language? And the next question. It's, you know, mass violations that are on TV about advertising all these blocks when they're broken and time-consuming, and it's a big one. complaining about people who. This ad, as they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u81	With regard to the development of live speech. In the regions not only in Poltava but also in other regions, we predict that 95 percent of the population in each area will be covered by digital language, and we will be required to issue a license to a district television broadcaster for all the frequencies that will be put to competition in an area for a district radio company. Well, it's a competition, but we can talk about what, in fact, it's going to be outside of competitive consideration. It's about advertising. Well, I think the National Council of Ukraine is trying to control this process, but what I said in my report needs to change the legislation of Ukraine. Very serious changes to Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u82	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u83	We do what we can do, but you know that radio organizations also have a lot of experience in meeting formally all the requirements of the law, actually solving their questions about. Business. its development, first of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u84	The forces are clearly not equal. Vladimir Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u85	Thank you. Vladimir Anatolyevich, you said correctly that we should get a number very quickly, but the approach to licensing fees is something we, you know. When one license was issued for the same transmitter and the same amount was paid, it was good. Now on the same frequency, on the same transmitter you can give eight, and that means eight times more. So you're not expected to be 37, you're expected to be eight times more. It's the same thing. In addition, the National Council, I stress the word “national”, we in Ukraine issue new licences 95 and sometimes 99 per cent to Kiev broadcasters. Well, we're national, so Ukrainian, for the whole of Ukraine! And the cities, the towns that are even less than 50,000, are ten grand, and why is there a Kiev publisher when he's in the district?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u86	Thank you for two questions. On the first question, I want to say that, if we could, we would have discounted the software provider for building digital telephony -- a state-owned organization, but there's no money for it today. So we turned, as I was saying, to subjects of entrepreneurial activity in this area -- and we chose from the applicants the Greenbud company, which I think I should say is a big thank you for coming into this very, very financially risky project. Because the technology in the field of television is growing rapidly. And if I have, like, other experts, I know, very much too, if they can reflect on the money they put into the development of this program. Regarding local speech. Yesterday we met with the ruling of the Independent Association of Telephonics, which, in effect, unites local and regional television channels. To our surprise, they thanked us for fighting the retranslation. Because they said.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u87	Yes, please, Litwinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Elena Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u89	Bondarenko Helen's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Anatolyevich. I'm here, on the right. I have a question for the next order. The previous composition of the National Council has introduced a disgraceful practice for our country, the so-called retransmission lists in Ukraine of channels, which are such a separation of all foreign channels on their own and not their own, as was implied. Of course, the list was not called a list of prohibited channels, it was called a list of permitted channels, but that means that all channels that were not included in the list are prohibited. I have a question: When will the current composition of the National Council go away from this disgraceful practice? Because you understand very well as an official, as head of the National Council, that for those channels that have not been listed, it is actually an effort to corrupt the National Council. I mean, to set up a set of scenes to get into this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u91	Thank you for asking. I'll admit, honestly, these actions of the National Council, they're not entirely legal, they're introducing this list of programs. But I'm also going to say frankly that it was I who insisted that this list of programs be preserved when we discussed this issue in this National Council, in the updated National Council in 2010. The year. What I've come up with is to leave this list, the so-called, adaptive program list. Unfortunately, there are many foreign channels that can be retranslated in the cable networks of Ukraine, if this list is canceled, they will be very erotic, if not pornographic. Because the legislation of different countries, we were in Holland, it allows such programs to look at people from 14 years old, in other countries from 16-21. And we asked the cables frankly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u92	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u93	If we let you retransmit all the channels without exception, will you retransmit these porn channels? They said we would. How, then, can we do so? Well, if you do it in a legal order, that is, bring it to trial, settle it in the courts, and we understand that in the courts, it can take years. And how many complaints at the address of the President of Ukraine, the national deputies, the National Council of Ukraine will be from the citizens of Ukraine who. children who will be able to watch such channels uncontrollably. So we're still saving this list, but I said we're trying to maximize it. All the channels that fit Ukraine's legislation, we are then. This list is included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u94	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u95	Thank you. Volodymyr Anatoliyovich, in all the regions where we are as Ukrainian national deputies, from Lugansk to Uzhgorod, from Sum to Sevastopol, broadcasts the fifth channel in all the cities to hear the FM Radio Melody. This hysteria has recently come to an end, but just recently, the National Council has been accused of being the main silencer of freedom of speech: "5 channel," "TV," "FM-Melody" and so on. I'd like to hear some explanations from you today for our radio audiences and TV audiences, because aside from some unwarranted vicious attacks, for example, I haven't heard and it's hard to understand what's going on. So, "5 channel," "TV" and "Melodia." And the second question. Do you have the ability to put order on the cable network, where now some social organizations have come up: "Love TV," "Love radio"? So two questions: "5 channel", "TV" and "FM-Melody" and cable networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u96	Unfortunately, in a minute, thank you for asking, I cannot answer in detail. I'll start with a second question. Indeed, there is such a practice as to create community-based programs. It's actually tax evasion, government budget tax evasion by these organizations, and we're fighting it and we're conducting joint trials with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and with the Ukrainian Attorney's Office. About the "Melody" channel, TV, 5th. All those stories that were, in fact, heard not only in Ukraine, but we've been accused of it, it's a large number of international organizations. You said yourself that the noise of a poem. And the poem is because there was really no politics there, there was no politics there. There was only a farmer’s relationship. About the TV channels and the 5th. Honorable.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u97	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u98	A frequent history with these channels, they were calculated in the bypass of the law, the license was issued in the bypass of the law, and there was no politics there. To this story, no one has heard in Ukraine or outside Ukraine that the TV channel is some kind of opposition channel. It's Melody's radio. This company didn't pay the licensing fee. There was a warrant from the Attorney General's Office and all the court's decisions. That is why we acted in harmony with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u99	And Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u100	Please give the floor to the deputy of our MP, Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u101	Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Anatolyovich! I have two questions for you. On May 18th, the "Will" operator stopped broadcasting the popular Czech independent television channel "Antena Plus". And it's not an exception to Cherkishka, there's a lot of other evidence of a systematic attack on freedom of speech and clearing the information space of Cherkashka. Released in the last year by ODTC Director General "Roso" Mikhailo Kalinichenko, the municipal district newspaper "New Age" Sergey Tamilenko was released, and the municipal newspaper "Misto" Boris Juhno. I'm not going to talk about this, because you know the facts of why this is happening, and I want everyone else in Ukraine to hear why this is happening. And the second question is no less important. Why I asked the MP today on this matter. Why the Universal Radio Service actually stops.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u103	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u104	Thank you for asking. With regard to the second question, it is also not a question for the National Council of Ukraine on TV and Radio. We may and we may have outsourced the activity of the Ukrainian Global Radio. We did not stop, there were no sanctions applied to this organization by the National Council of Ukraine. If there's a desire to continue speaking, we can extend the term of the license. I understand it's a lack of funds, it's a question, really, not for the National Council. Regarding the situation in the Cherkas region. So far, with the information that we have, it's also a business relationship between a software provider that forms a packet of channels to watch subscribers and radio organizations that make a deal with such a software provider. But I realize there's already a situation there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u105	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u106	Outside the area, we have a new representative and we will return to the situation in the Cherkas region at the nearest National Council working sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u107	The questions are exhausted. Thank you, Volodymyr Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. Correspondent from the committee is the first deputy head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna. Today in the first deputy, Elena Anatoliyevna, the first performance, because yesterday we assigned her to this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! By the end of January, the National Council on Television and Radio was reporting its activities in an orderly manner. Let us note, for example, that since 2005, the Supreme Council has not properly considered Nacrada’s reports since 2005. Parliament has self-removed itself from monitoring the activities of the regulator, and this has certainly not contributed to the effective work of the regulator. We are glad that we have finally managed to break this not entirely normal trend. The Committee of March 17, this year, reviewed the 2010 report of the National Council. And it should be noted that the structure of the document is systemic, one that meets the requirements of the National Council Act. The report presents information on the implementation of the national television information space development plan, the findings of the 2010 television broadcasting license, regulatory and supervisory powers of compliance with the requirements of legislation on participation in foreign capital, the state of competition and the level of monopolization of the television information market. In addition to the report, the state record of the organization was presented as of January 1, 2011. Her head, Vladimir Manjusov, was deeply involved in the achievements and problems of Nakrad’s work. And that's why I'm going to put more emphasis on the issues that we've been having with the committee, and we've had a lot of hard discussions and ambiguities. Let's start with the introduction of digital language. I would like to remind you that all countries in Europe, including Ukraine, have entered into an international agreement "Geneva-2006", which is defined in 2015 as final in the process of transition from channel to digital broadcasting. Many have already done so. Closest neighbours: Poland, Slovakia, Romania, Hungary - are already completing the construction of appropriate infrastructure. Russia will start excluding analog transmitters by the end of 2012. And we have to act with them in sync, that's what technology requires. Regrettably, Ukraine, because of such irresponsible work by the Nakrad of the previous warehouse, has almost lost its pace and has almost lost its frequency, the frequency that is on the border. But I would like to say that it was within this national council that it was possible to unlock the work and process of moving from analog to numeral. Now, as soon as possible, a network in Ukraine will allow all regional and national channels to provide such a large TV triad. The 4 multiples that will now be organized in Ukraine will provide a common resource to all. But. More than just technical issues, economic and financial issues remain open. It is still unclear what the costs will be on the television channels that the provider is going to invest in this project, while the price of the figure for Ukraine is much higher. And then there's a question about whether or not it's going to be like the Euro-2012 preparations and we're going to have to put out the gas again. Let's say who is the state, the provider, the consumer, and how much they have to pay for the resilients, the technical means of receiving the signal in every home. Part of the report’s understanding is the licensing of the software provider and the licensing of language. As we know, Nacrad has already held a competition last December for a multi-channel provider of MH-1, 2, 3, 5 that will build digital infrastructure. The winner was the private structure of Zeonbud. The company got four licenses for each of the multiplexes for 10 years. Each multiplex has a resource of 8 television programs. The provider, as I said, is building networks. During the days of the Nakrad, it changed its license to part of the digital language standard, changing DVB-T to the state-of-the-art DVB-T-2. And that might be welcome, but again, there are questions. This standard will allow you to accept a high-precision signal. The technical means of such reception — decoders — are therefore much more expensive. This is such a big moment. Another equally important question is the quality of a television park. And he's mostly morally out of date for this standard. After all, it is known that the number will be out of competition where cable networks are not available, mainly in rural areas, in parks, and in small towns. This sector has about 8 million households. Clearly, the most expensive resilver will not be able to provide a clear picture on a television screen produced in the years of the Soviet Union. The owners of outdated TVs will not be able to accept programs. So the question is, who is financing the replacement of televisions for pensioners, low-income, socially vulnerable groups? Another aspect that the committee considers to be quite a problem in the work of the Nacrad. It has to do with the record of the state. The situation has improved. Yet, the question remains. The registration provided by the Nakrad plugin for the report and its electronic version on the official website contains information about 1,682 television organizations and information activities, but this information is fragmented. By the way, last year the committee also noted this problem. Sadly, the situation has changed little. One thing I would like to do is to stop at Nakrad’s regulatory functions. Television and radio, though specific, are business. It's a market. This is where money is invested, with a view to earning income. The principles of regulation in the information sphere as well as in other market segments are laid down in existing legislation. We would like to point out that the committee’s efforts for several years have been successful. The Nakrad brought its regulatory documents into line with the requirements of the Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity. As we know, the president and the government today announced a course for deregulation. And in this context, Nakrada's actions are not quite clear, which continues to regulate the work of cable television operators quite severely by including comprehensive lists of adapted television programs in the license. We have a lot of legitimate complaints about this. And speaking of which, Vladimir Anatolyevich, about your answer to my question, you did a little bit of talking. You were talking about porn channels, and I was talking about ordinary know-it-all channels and social politics, that's a big difference. Please do the list of prohibited under the law, everything else will be allowed. This is the most liberal democratic norm. The question of the transparency of the organization’s checks remains to be fully settled. The committee of its own time urged Nakrad to abandon the practice of giving warnings to speakers about minor, minor violations of legislation. Inadequate application of sanctions and non-adjustment of licenses when reshaping them. I will say that this problem is now, of course, less than before, because you have indeed brought the structure of the National Council, especially the regional branches, into line with the legislation. This was very important because there was actually a dual power on the ground, there were secretariats, there were representations and, of course, it was very difficult to understand what the right hand was doing when the left hand was doing it. And, of course, a lot of the radio organizations complained about unplanned field inspections on behalf of the branches, on behalf of the National Council missions. In this case, the National Council, sitting in Kiev, received the cones. Despite differing opinions, the National Deputies' evaluations of the committee’s consideration of the issue were endorsed by the majority of the votes of the committee to recommend to the Supreme Council a report on the work of the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting in 2010. Thank you for your attention. And I think that in 2011, you will be more honored to protect the results of your work with great dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u109	Thank you, Olena Anatolyevno. And you're going to help them. Have a seat, please. Yes, dear colleagues, you and I have made a decision, more faithfully, we have agreed not to discuss the report. The report was heard, and the committee's report was heard. I emphasize once again what was said in the co-reports and in the report practically, that, for the first time in six years, we have fulfilled the law and listened, and we have heard the report. I think we did the right thing with you. We did the right thing. Moreover, not only have they listened to the report but the written report has been distributed to the national deputies. And we've got answers to questions that have a lot of noise and noise and a lot of speculation. And we're said to have heard what we were interested in. I therefore propose to accept the committee's proposal and to adopt Order No. 8409 on the 2010 National Council of Ukraine report on television and radio broadcasting. The report of the National Council is well - known. Please vote. [[12:06:14]] For 253 Thank you. 253. It's an order. Let us thank both the head and the members of the National Council for the opportunity to communicate with the people through the national MPs. Dear colleagues, as you are looking at such an offer that we may now work with you without interruption, but for half an hour earlier we finished our work. Is there no objection? Okay. Thank you. Then we hear about the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts against illegal takeover and capture of businesses. [[Registration number 6434]] There are active proposals to hold this discussion on a reduced basis. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please be supportive. [[12:07:13]] For 212 Supported. The Deputy Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Svishchev Svetlana Ivanovna, is invited to attend. From the committee to prepare for Vladimir Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u110	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The draft Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Suppression of Unlawful Abduction and Preoccupation of Enterprises has been developed by the State Corporation in order to prevent the use of a scheme of illegal absorption and capture of enterprises. Thus, draft Law 6434 proposes to amend the Civil, Economic, Criminal, Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine, in particular on economic societies, on the state registration of legal persons and individuals of entrepreneurs, on the restoration or recognition of the debtor by bankruptcy. The proposed changes are aimed at addressing issues such as improving the subordination of certain categories of cases and introducing criminal responsibility for the falsification of documents submitted for the national registration of a legal person, for falsification of forms and their use, for counterfeiting of seals, stamps, for the capture of premises and for the production capacity of enterprises, for strengthening the administrative responsibility of public registrars, and restrictions on the involvement of State contractors in the execution of the activities of non-State-owned security entities. Remove conversion from the list of types of termination by making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Civil Code. There are also definitions of force majeure resulting in the suspension of the work of the Single State Register, legal and natural persons. In addition, draft Law 6434 has been designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent. But it should be noted that during this period of time some of the laws proposed by the bill have already been incorporated into other laws of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council. In particular, in the Tax Code of Ukraine, the Law on State Registration of Legal and Physical Persons. Since the bill is intended to regulate, at the legislative level, those gaps in the current legislation of Ukraine, which are unfortunately leading to rapid and effective illegal capture and takeover of enterprises, please support the adoption of the bill on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u111	Thank you. Please sit down. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Legislative Protection, Vladimir Olijnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u112	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement was discussed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the draft Ukrainian Law on amending certain legislative acts to counter the illegal takeover and capture of businesses. The main objective of this bill, which is to achieve the very purpose of the bill to amend some Ukrainian legislative acts to counter the illegal takeover and capture of enterprises, is to prevent the use of schemes and methods of illegal capture and capture of enterprises that pose a real threat to the national and economic interests of our State and require the formation of an effective system of opposition to these negative phenomena. That is, the bill is aimed at settling the main important aspects of countering illegal takeover and taking over businesses. The Chief Scientific and Scientific Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to return to work. The committee itself has received many conclusions from the public authorities and institutions, and since the project covers many different aspects, in particular its reasoned proposals and observations have been made by experts from the Attorney-General's Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the leading legal units. Having examined the bill itself, the committee considers it possible to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on its first reading. To sum up, I would like to re-vote this bill in the first reading so that we can take all the comments that have come to the committee on this bill into account once again on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u113	Yes, thank you. Who wants to share in the discussion? You don't? Is it? Besides Chaplin, who else insists? Please, Caplienne, follow him, Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, indeed, there are positive points in the bill, such as regulating the creation or listing of documents for the registration of specified documents, introducing the responsibility for falsification of documents, clarifying the order of bankruptcy, granting tax authorities the right to review termination decisions, even through a court appeal, and this applies to any legal person or private person, is meant by business entities. But there are two standards in this bill that cause us to worry. First. It is suggested that the transformation, or reorganization, be removed from the list of types of termination of a legal person. Leaving the transformation as a change in the organization's legal form as a legal person without stopping it, as proposed by the bill, will lead to a substantial, in our view, spread of the raid, rather than ending it, as an illegal capture of businesses. Because in this case it is possible to register new legal persons on the basis of the assets of existing ones, which the participants or founders of these enterprises will not know until they get the wrong seizure of property on their side. The other one. I would like to remind you that this bill has already been tabled several times and with the same requirements as we call for, which are different in this bill. So registration number 1129 had already been reviewed by the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call and had been accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it had been noted that the veto had been used by the President. I would also like to remind you that in the current Supreme Raja there is a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine to reduce the quorum for the holding of re-congregation assemblies. [[Registration number 6504]] Also, this bill has not yet been considered. The MP's "For the Future Reforms" suggests that the wife's bill should be sent for further work, resulting in the deletion of the positions that we have highlighted, and also.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u115	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u116	as well as the situation regarding the reduction of the quorum in the conduct of reoccupied congregations or general congregations of the founders of farm societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u117	Please, Cibenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u118	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Fellow citizens of Ukraine, I want to say that the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this bill and not because we think it's ideal, and that it solves all the problems already, and we have our warnings about this document, but we understand the acute problem, we understand that today the capture of businesses, the absorption of enterprises has become such a scourge that has a significant impact on the situation. in Ukraine, and that's really what we have to deal with. What is most surprising, then, is that very often behind the back of those raiders who are engaged in illegal enterprise acquisitions are people who have sworn in their loyalty, as it were, private property. Today, when legislation is in trouble with them, Ukraine, when it is possible to adopt an enterprise that does not belong to them, can simply be overstepped. So we think that we need to accept this document in the first reading and, by making it ready for the second reading, to make the necessary changes in the direction of combating this evil, because it really has a profoundly negative impact on the situation in the socio-economic sphere of Ukraine. So once again, I stress that the faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote in favour of this document in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u119	Thank you. The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, I'd like to support you in the first reading, including in the reform group, because those, Volodymyr Wolodymyrovich, comments, fair remarks you have made, will be perfectly able and should be taken into account when preparing it for the second reading, so that we can. If we were to go to pre-processing, it was a new circulation of papers and an extension of the solution process, and in preparing for the second, we could take that into account. Please, Caplienne, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich! We may be changing our position. The only thing I'd like to hear from you personally is that these two-way changes that I've stressed today on behalf of the MP group will be removed from this bill, and you'll do your best. And they will not contradict article 116 of the Rules, for our estimate may be that there may be obstacles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u121	Yes, let us make sure that no one interferes with you, and you make such adjustments to your second reading. We will not accept it in general today. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the amendment to the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the suppression of illegal absorption and the capture of businesses. [[Registration number 6434]] Please be supportive. [[12:17:47]] For 246 Thank you. Adopted in the first reading. Please, committee, we have a committee on legislative matters to prepare for the second. We are considering: a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on specific issues of social protection for military personnel and some others, payment of one-off cash assistance in the event of their death, disability or partial loss of employment without disability. [[death]] [[Registration number 7277]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:18:39]] For 212 Thank you. We've got it. He should report here from both the committee and, as the author of the legislative initiative, colleague Greenewecki, but he has a serious international meeting right now, so unfortunately he can't do that. I'll introduce you to the committee's decision. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. The Chief Legal and Scientific Authority is proposing and is of the opinion that it is appropriate for this bill to be sent for further work. The bill is intended, of course, to improve the social protection situation of military personnel and some others regarding their one - time payment, financial assistance in the event of their death, disability, or partial disability. [[death]] That's the point of the bill. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Yes. Yes, besides Zibank, who else insists? Then please, Peter Cibenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Faction of the Ukrainian Company, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this document and explain why. Well, first of all, because we're always supporting the documents that are on the lookout for social protection, the protection of people who have lost their health, including in the Department of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and so on and so forth. It's different. You know, there's one very interesting thing. All of us want to have a normal combat army, we want a ministry and an appropriate warehouse, a proper staff of individuals who would carry out their duties, but at the same time we do not want to give them certain guarantees. Of course, if a person enters into service in a power structure that involves his service of destruction or the task of material harm to his health, he has certain guarantees on the part of the State that if, God forbid, something happens to him, his family will not suffer from it, someone will help him, and so on and so forth. That's why, even with certain, let's say, opinions about the content of this document, we think that a lot of things can be corrected in the process of preparing for second reading. And any delay in adopting this document will only complicate the situation. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this document because it is aimed at strengthening the social protection of those in need of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u123	Let's be clear. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of Bill 7277: to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts on specific issues of social protection for military personnel and some others, to pay one-time cash assistance in the event of their death, to establish disability or partial loss of employment without establishing disability. [[death]] Please vote. [[12:22:32]] For-47 Not supported. There is a proposal to send a bill for further work. Please be supportive. [[12:22:53]] For 242 Decision taken. The bill is aimed at further development. We're looking at the draft law. [[Registration numbers 7409, 7409-1]] Offer: Short procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:23:21]] For 214 Thank you, 214. Report to the committee head. Vice-Committee on Legal Policy Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich. That's him. Come on, Yuri Romanovich, let's do it this way, you both as the author, and from the committee, four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u124	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear voters, distinguished colleagues. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. The bill on legal and regulatory acts aimed at regulating social relations related to the development of legal acts, their adoption, their acquisition, state registration, and defines the system, types, hierarchy of legal acts and establishes the only requirements for design techniques for all subjects. The point is that there is not a single legislative act in Ukraine today that would set requirements for the development and adoption of legislation that negatively affects the state's standard-setting state. Thus, in order to ensure the creation of an effective system of legislation today, there is a need for the adoption of a law that would set out the only general requirements for the development and adoption of legislation that would, in turn, help to regulate and improve the quality of regulatory activity, stabilize and systematize legislation. It should be noted that this project, the registration number 7409, takes into account a large part of the comments made by the President of Ukraine, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Chief Legal Authority. With regard to the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate for the Bill, registration number 7409, they can be taken into account when preparing it for second reading. Given the above, as the author, I urge you to support Bill 7409 in the first reading on the basis. I would also like to report that the Committee of Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers the mature and relevant issue proposed to address the proposed bills. The Committee adopted the conclusion that the Supreme Council of Ukraine had recommended that the draft Ukrainian Law on Regulatory Acts, registration number 7409, should be adopted in the first reading. It has been decided to entrust the committee with the task of working on the proposed bill, taking into account the provisions of the alternative bill, registration number 7409-1, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Kseniya Lápin, as well as the comments and suggestions made by other subjects of the right to legislative initiative and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading. The relevant draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was introduced by the Committee. At the same time, I would like to inform you, Mr. President, that, according to the committee's decision, the bills before their previous consideration were sent for legal expertise to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Institute of State and the rights of the Supreme and Supreme Administrative Courts of Ukraine. These institutions have made a number of constructive comments and suggestions that can and will be taken into account when working on the draft Law and preparing it for second reading. Dear colleagues, this problem exists, it is urgent, and I ask you to support Bill 7409 so that we can prepare it for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u125	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich, please sit down. Our alternative bill 7409-1 of colleague Lápina, but you know the situation. In a report to the committee, Yuri Romanovich also stated his position on two bills, including that the right thoughts that are in the alternative would be useful in preparing for the second reading. Dear colleagues, we are not returning to this problem for the first time. Unfortunately, we didn't solve it. We adopted a bill in due course. True, the previous president applied the veto, and we couldn't overcome it. And that's why now we're practically going back to consideration. There is no doubt that this system needs to be put into place. But this must be approached very and very carefully and calmly, not in a hurry, do enough, as it were, to make it clear, clear and clear. Therefore, if there is no desire to share in the discussion. Is it? There's no reform group? Then which one of you will it be? Who? Hashuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u126	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The bill has a fairly broad subject of legal settlement, which is referred to in the Preamble to this law. That is: "This law regulates social relations related to the development of legal acts, their adoption, their taking effect, state registration and accounting, defines the system, species, hierarchy of legal acts, and establishes the only requirements for regulatory and design techniques for all subjects of regulation." The quote is complete. On the one hand, it seems justified to solve a number of problems in a single law that are, in fact, not solved for a long time. However, an overly broad subject always creates problems with the legal content of the law. The bill is prepared based on the concept of a single law on NPA, which covers both laws and regulations. However, the position of the project, which establishes the only common rules for laws and regulations relating to the form of the content of the mechanisms of development, adoption, entry into force, publication of the latter, often fails to take into account the specificities of the legal nature of the relevant NPAs. Thus, a large number of general project provisions that should apply exclusively to laws also extend to regulations, so that most of the provisions of the project cannot be applied to sub-legislative NPAs that are adopted by a number of public authorities together. The specificity of the legal nature of these NPAs is also undiscovered and does not even contain references to other Ukrainian legislative acts. As for specific examples, part two of article 6 of the bill proposes that the Constitution of Ukraine be placed in law, which is not valid, since the Constitution of Ukraine establishes its special legal status. Article 1, article 50, provides a list of the reasons why the decision to apply for State registration should be revoked.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u127	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u128	In conclusion, I would like to say, unfortunately, that little time has passed that the MP's reform group for the future is proposing that the bill should be sent for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, really, quite a lot of comments, comments from the just about science and expertise. But since it is a whole law, that is, a new law to which we cannot and do not have the right to apply 116 articles of the Rules. So any change, any innovation to this law can be made in spite of 116 articles, because it's a completely new law that's very necessary. And I'm gonna do it again, and I'm gonna do it again. No doubt, when we consider it in our second reading, we will consider it with a watchful eye. Because you and I are the chief law makers, you and I are the only legislators, and it should be written here clearly, so that no one can use one norm. So I'd like to ask, let's say that in the first reading, let's support it, and let's go to the profiling committee, and the fact is that it's a committee on legal policy that's not really loaded with legislation, and it can work quietly, and it can work very well on this bill. I'm voting for support in the first reading of Bill 7409 on legislation. Please vote. A little bit, Igor Fedorovich. [[12:33:05]] For 253 Thank you. Copy that. And what the committee writes is that they actually take into account the rules of an alternative, alternative bill. We have three bills left, dear colleagues. I think we'll take a quick look at them. And it's got to be "Crazy." It's going to be "Crazy," definitely. Draft Act No. 7284 of the Act amending article 131 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and status of judges is under consideration. [[about the judge's internship]] [[Registration number 7284]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:34:08]] For 222 Ouch! There's a lot you can promise. 222. Supported. Yes, please, Bondik is both the author and the committee. Please, Valery Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! This bill is designed to resolve some discrimination over the work of judges. For example, there are now such legislative rules that the employment of a lawyer, a judge, a prosecutor, a civil servant, a category I and a category IV is not included in the general service of the judiciary. But according to the legislation, according to the workload, according to all material procedural standards, this work fits because it is a legal professional work. Therefore, honourable colleagues are invited to make such changes to article 50 of the Law on the Status of Judges, part of the first article 131 on the status of judges and courts. And compare to the general work of the judge when the judge is appointed to have the right to resign and to count his previous work. Dear colleagues! If you'll excuse me, the committee's opinion, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u131	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! On our committee, this bill was considered in 7284. It should be noted that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority notes that similar bills have been tabled. Since 2004, six drafts have been tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council, but they have been withdrawn. But we don't think that's a hindrance because there's a positive response. For example, the Supreme Administrative Court supports the bill and there are no objections to its adoption. In connection with the above - mentioned committee, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill on first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u133	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Discuss? No, it's not. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending article 131 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. [[on the traineeship of the judge]] Registration number 7284. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:36:48]] For-22. Not supported. A proposal for further work. Here we go. [[12:37:06]] For 217 Not supported. The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the protection of the rights of children raised in single - parent families]] Registration number 7017. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:37:39]] For 212 A supported idea. The author is Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich missing. From the committee — Naydenov Andrey, secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u134	Dear National Deputies! The committee discussed the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (with regard to the protection of the rights of children raised in single - parent families, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchuk. The bill proposes to raise the minimum alimony to 50 percent of the minimum child’s age. At the same time, for children up to three years of age if they live with an unemployed mother and father up to 100 percent of their living minimum. It is also proposed to increase the size of the wage deductions when drawing alimony and accordingly increase the state aid even if the alimony size is smaller than the minimum size of the alimony. The law also proposes that the issue of obtaining a child’s permission to leave abroad for the absence of parental consent should be settled by obtaining such permission, not by a court decision, but by the decision of the custody and care authorities. In line with the need to increase the material security of children receiving alimony, the committee notes that the bill’s size of alimony may far exceed the material capacity of alimony payers. The Budget Committee noted in its conclusion that the implementation of the bill would require additional expenditure from the State budget, which would have to do with the implementation of article 184 of the Ukrainian Family Code regarding the State’s obligation to pay alimony to the court’s fixed amount to ensure their minimum size. Despite the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 27 of the Code of Budget for Ukraine, the author has not provided financial and economic justifications for the bill and specific proposals for expenditure. there is a need to reduce and propose sources of additional budget revenue before the cost increases are met. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, under which the rights and freedoms of a person and a citizen are protected by a court, the committee considers it necessary to grant permission for a child to leave abroad for the absence of parental consent on the basis of a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u135	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u136	Yes, and the court. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill needs further work, taking into account the above observations. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine as a result of its first reading, and to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[on the protection of the rights of children raised in single - parent families]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u137	Thank you, Andrey Mikhailovich, please sit down. Vote? I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7017]] Here's the idea and the committee, and the chief scientific expert, for further development. Let's support this proposal. For processing. Vote. [[12:41:10]] For 238. Sent for pre-processing. Thank you. And the last bill, number 6565, is the bill amending the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act. [[new editor]] It's a new edition. There's a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:41:44]] For 222 Supported. The author of the legislative initiative, colleague Shevchuk, in connection with his health status, asks that the bill be considered without his participation. So I immediately give the floor to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u138	Dear fellow countrymen! Now, you've noticed, once social laws are in place, there is no opposition. We already have a third or fourth law on the minimum of living that gives rise to opposition, they never exist. Because they probably have to pay a little more than their living minimum. And the fact that you have to look at such laws is, of course, because these laws haven't been reviewed for 10 years. Unfortunately, our committee is proposing to reject this bill. Why? Because I'm going to call that data. What does the author propose? In fact, to the standards that exist, this nebulous formulation should be used in calculating the subsistence minimum. What "structural approach" is unknown. This is the first time. Secondly, the author suggests that we remove or reduce the range of products. Now 60 percent in the consumer basket, cut. It can't be understood either. Third. In general, there is no framework within which the author proposes to remove from the subsistence minimum such notions as residential utilities, transportation, household services, culture, education, and so on. Therefore, such a bill is certainly impossible to support. Although we insist that the bill on the minimum of living should be adopted as soon as possible because it has not been revised for 10 years. Adam Ivanovich, we, look, finish the work of the Supreme Council, two hours without opposition. Great, great, many laws have been passed. And I want, colleagues, finally, a whole week ahead of me, a little anecdote. " They're asking me a policy: My dear, you have a Mercedes, you have a lexus, why did you put your mom on a bike? And he says, "Because the bike's on the ups, your mother." Well, you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u139	Shall we discuss it? No one insists. I am voting on the proposal to support Bill 6565 – amending the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act. [[new editor]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:44:19]] For-31 Not supported. The committee’s decision on pre-processing is a matter of concern. Here we go. [[12:44:41]] For-45 Not supported. The bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, you have just been handed over with a draft decree for the introduction of a special ceremony in Ukraine on June 22, each year, minutes of memory lost in the years of the Great Homeland War. There's an offer to put it in the agenda and look at it. Please be supportive. [[12:45:23]] For 245 Supported. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:45:41]] For 236 Supported. Please, Nadosha Oleg Volodymyrovich. Prepare for the committee of Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u140	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I propose to adopt a draft decree to commemorate the memory of all the dead Ukrainians during the Great Homeland War and the wars that have taken place in Ukraine. How do we know that we lost more than 5 million people in the Great Native War alone? In addition, 2.4 million people were interned in Germany. Virtually every six Ukrainians died during this period. To honor the memory of the people who died during the war, it is suggested that on June 22, each year, Ukrainians honor their memory with a moment of silence. A moment of silence has such precedents in it. This is the assumption of a state flag on all state institutions. These are the chimes and sirens of the appropriate tools of Minchez. It's a land transport stop, except that it's on a schedule or an international one. And some other measures that will allow us to stop the practical activity of the country. Stop her for a minute. Stop it to honor the memory of those who died in military conflicts. I ask you to support this decision and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u141	Thank you. First Deputy Head of the Committee for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Cibenko Petar Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u142	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! I think that the situation and the draft decision is so obvious, in view of the need for its adoption, that I will not complement the bill's author with the need for its adoption. Indeed, this bill recently appeared in exchange for another bill, which was a little wider. But this document should really be accepted, because some of our colleagues on the Supreme Council of Ukraine from another bloc, from another sector of the Supreme Council meeting hall, have already agreed that the Great National War is not ours, and the victory is not ours. Well, you know, this rhetoric can usually take us a long way, and a minute of silence is really sacred, which is what we can respond to those people who put their lives on it. The committee therefore supports the legislative initiative and suggests that the decision be made not only in the first reading but also in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u143	Thank you. Shall we vote? In fact, respectable colleagues, here, I think, and even from anyone. Huh? Yeah. Schmellow, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u144	I can't see without my glasses. They said to read what's here, the residents. Now the glasses have to be put on. Dead in the Great Motherland. Normally, it's just that the author said, Ukrainians, sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u145	No, no. It's all right here. Dear colleagues, I think we will have an understanding of every political power. There is hardly any reason not to honor those who put their heads in the most terrible battle. I propose to support Supreme Council Order 8539 on the introduction of a special ceremony in Ukraine on June 22, each year. One minute of memory after the death of the Great War of 1941-1945. Vote. [[12:50:20]] For the 250. Even if I don't want to move on to the Different, we don't have any other questions. So, please, let's sign up for "Victory." Please show the list. We've got an hour. Victoria Demyanczuk, Communist faction Prepare Ivanenko. Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u146	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens! We are witnessing a heated discussion in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in many cases a riot between representatives of the bourgeois clans of those who now express authority and those who were still in power yesterday. They either crawl out of their skin or like themselves tens of times fooled and robbed voters. Deputies from the Party of the Regions demonstrated their intention to protect a person’s work a year and introduced Parliament’s necessary bills for ordinary citizens. But they could not stand because the authorities then belonged to oranges, who did not support such initiatives. And now it's all changed exactly the opposite, a splinter of past power in the person of BUT and NUNS seems to have taken up the defense of the working people and are eagerly proposing to adopt similar social-led bills. Now they're not getting away with it. In summary, all the bourgeois clans represented by these deputies are satisfied. Social demagogism is present, and the rich still have a good grip on the exploitation of the labour force. This reminds us of the parable of how the two wolves clung to the flock of lambs, one of them looked before the lambs, that he was a good wolf, the other he was simply wearing sheep’s skin, and their intentions were exactly the same. So for 20 years now, capitalist restorations in our rich natural resources have continued to increase prices and tariffs, remain extremely low wages and pensions, declines in industrial and agricultural production. The national tragedy has been unemployment, corruption and crime are on the rise, the disease of backward society, poverty and despondency are on the move, millions of our people are being sent to that world, the names of our presidents are changing, the governments of capitalist ministers are going to the past. The names of the bourgeois political parties with the passing of time are becoming more and more sophisticated to confuse people, and the state of affairs remains constant, negative. And one more thing. The faces of representatives of large capital in the Supreme Council or governments for a long time are almost the same. Are they able to do something for the common people? Can they expect social justice, as the trusted people of Ukraine still expect? I guess not. Therefore, it is logical to conclude. As long as there is a system of capitalism in the Ukrainian community, our people will suffer as long as they are simple. And to improve our lives, our citizens need to unite around the Communist Party of Ukraine and fight for their rights. Ukrainian workers, unite! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u147	Yes, Ivanenko is handing over the Tooth. And it's written down, it's got six minutes. Next up is Kovalevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u148	Valentin Zubov, political party of the People's Labour Union of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to return in my statement to the events of 9 May in the city of Lviv. We have just adopted a decree on the introduction of a minute of memory on the day of the beginning of the war on the dead, and this is the very right decision of the Supreme Council. However, once again, I want to emphasize that everything that happened in Lviv on 9 May goes far beyond normal civilized relations in our country. Attempts by some politicians to tell the people and voters that it was a provocation in which they were interested, on the one hand, that, on the other hand, there was, in principle, no ground. What had to happen was logical. What do I mean? I'm referring to our veterans who are still alive. I mean, to remember, to those who paid the highest price for our common victory. And he has to say that we did it, not us, but those who staged these provocations deliberately, deliberately. First, there was a huge blow to Ukraine's prestige in the international arena. And secondly, there was an even stronger blow to the memory of those who died in that terrible war. Do you understand what this is about? Far from everyone in the country, not all politicians understand that measure of responsibility and that huge measure of debt to both the dead and the veterans. Pay attention to their faces on 9 May. Not all politicians and those present in the room are psychologists, sociologists, but look at the faces of veterans on the day of their victory. They're not just sad. On their faces is more than grief for those who died in that war. Their faces were saddened that they had fulfilled their civil duty and that the country they had been protecting had been extremely ungrateful to them for all the years following the war. And when veterans asked not for material goods, but asked permission to use the Flag of Victory that day, their flag not only found support in some parts of Ukraine but caused terrible aggression. And, you know, we have a lot of memory problems today with justice to these people. Two years ago, I spoke in Parliament, I called upon all of you people's deputies, colleagues, to take responsibility for at least one monument to the veterans of the Great Homeland War, to return, to the monuments of the dead, to those of today's monuments, not in the central, district cities, but in the fields, in the villages, in the forests. I did it myself in the village of Prishiv in Donetsk, building a monument on a brotherly grave. Moreover, on 9 May of this year, at the celebration of Victory Day, I discovered that there were dozens of bodies dug up by the Black Sea soldiers of the Great Homeland War. And on 22 June, I promise, we will surely hand them over to the land. I very much want this subject — the subject of war, its lessons — to separate the country and unite it in the wake of the memory of the dead. I want to address all political forces in the country: let's argue, look for the truth in a dispute, but let's not go beyond what's allowed when someone makes an image on the bones of a dead hero, creates their original political person. And I support the idea expressed by the communists that the Freedom Party should be outlawed, I stress, outside the law. It must be prohibited for what they did on 9 May. We can look at the political processes in the country differently. But there are things that shouldn't be touched with dirty hands. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that my words will be taken properly by all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u149	Thank you. Julia Kovalevska, please. To prepare for him, the Radovets pass it on to Sorochensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues, respected TV and radio audiences! Yesterday we witnessed the second act of a political spectacle called "The Day of Wrath". Directors and performers do not even try to hide their true motives. In a wave of marches and street riots, try again to regain power. It must be noted that the street protests planned by the activists of BUT and Freedom have nothing to do with the protection of the rights and interests of the Ukrainian people. It is a struggle between two political forces for the right to be called the main opposition in the country to successfully launch the 2012 electoral campaign. That is why all their slogans are political: the early elections of Parliament and the President. The declared multi-thousand protests eventually resulted in a walk in Mariin Park for several hundred people. The destabilization tactics that our opponents are so fond of have clearly failed because the Government has managed to find common ground with the simplifying entrepreneurs, and there is an open professional economic dialogue. All the constructive proposals submitted to the Government by entrepreneurs were reviewed and taken into account, on 16 May, Government Bill No. 8521 on Amendments to the Tax Code, which took into account the overwhelming majority of the proposals made by entrepreneurs, was registered in the Supreme Council. This document has emerged as a result of the meticulous professional work of both sides. The innovations developed and laid down in the bill aimed at supporting the national producer would benefit the entire economy of Ukraine. Dear friends, while deeply respecting the right of every citizen to freely identify his or her beliefs and defend his or her own interests, I would nevertheless like to say that anger, discontent is not the kind of emotion that helps to build and compromise. Only peace, understanding, respect, and love build up. But the opposition seems to have forgotten about it in the party divide. The opposition parties use the slightest reason to stir up dissatisfaction, opposition, insubordination, and to shout about political persecution. They're the ones who call it fighting. Gentlemen, thanks to your leadership, we will have many years to deal with the crisis, with poverty, with corruption, and in this fight the people of Ukraine will win. We will not allow the country to become a battlefield for the fights between BUT and Freedom. A party of regions, as the leading political force in Ukraine, will not pay for its ambitions of political stability, economic development and the right of millions of Ukrainian citizens to peace and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u151	Thank you. Please, Raisa Mikolayevna Sorochinska-Kyrilenko. The next one will be Gaszuk, handing over the Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u152	Soroczynska Kirilenko, group of Reforms for the Future. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, Parliament and the government have reported on the rise in social standards, assuring us that social standards continue to grow in our country. However, the MP's Reform Group for the Future is asking rhetorical questions as to whether the rise in social standards, say, by 10 bracelets, can be taken seriously, especially given the pace of rising prices for essential food products. Today, even vegetables, not to mention imported Greek, imported without payment of duties and all other taxes, have become inaccessible to many. In recent times, the top-news of the vast majority of mass media have been the rapid rise in agricultural prices as a result of delays in reforming Ukraine's agri-industrial complex. As a result, Ukraine has become an importer of vegetable products. If carrots and beets are purchased in Poland, potatoes are imported into Ukraine from Egypt. Last year, the Odessa region began importing cabbage, resulting in its cost in retail trade reaching 15 pounds per kilogram. As a result, transportation costs far exceed the cost of the product itself. In fact, however, native fertilization does not develop, causing high prices for vegetable production, which makes it more convenient to export it. There are many reasons for such a situation, and it requires a comprehensive approach to reforming the agricultural sector. These include the high energy efficiency of vegetables production, the high logistic costs of transporting them, the lack of shelters to store vegetables, as a result of which, according to expert estimates, we still have up to 40 percent of the potatoes, the underdevelopment of the group trade in vegetables, and so on. As a result of industrial production, vegetables are expensive and are being developed at an unsatisfying pace. Unlike other industries, an agro-industrial investment in vegetables is paid in five years. It does not contribute to investment in vegetables, lack of confidence or current benefits, including taxes, will be prolonged. In the event that a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land is not removed, Ukrainian citizens will not invest heavily in land development. Therefore, the MP's Reform for the Future calls for speeding up the adoption at the legislative level of the full market of the land, which will allow the rest to turn Ukraine into a large agricultural state.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u153	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u154	Our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u155	Paul Silent. He will be followed by Verni Dubov, who passed on the word of Romaniuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u156	Paul Mokchan, group of Reforms for the Future. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The National Calendar of Ukrainians has seen two very important dates in recent centuries. The first relates to the transfer of the dust of Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk from Petersburg to Ukraine in accordance with the will of Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk to the grave he had been searching for for so long and the land where he wanted to bow his head in the last days. May 22 is a special date. And I would like to ask all the Ukrainians to remember how we were forbidden to visit Montenegro, how we were forbidden to place flowers in Shevchenk's monument in Kiev and not only in Kiev, how we seized and repressed people for this very act that we honored that date, which we clearly wrote in the national calendar. As the second date came out, this is April 26, this is a tragic day in our lives, it's meant Chernobyl. And these two dates, they've adjusted the entire future of the nation. And I urge all Ukrainians to come to Montenegro. Who can get there on May 22, where we will traditionally honor each other, regardless of the format in which the authorities will observe it. Shevchenko is an eternal category, as is Ukraine. Whoever can come to Shevchenka's monument, we will be there, the All-Ukrainian Education Society, together with the National Democratic Forces, will be honored with his memory in all the cities of Ukraine. Please remember that this is a very important historical date and historical figure. They're going to draw it. State media did not do what they did in previous years when such a powerful journalist was Boris Grivachevski. The light of his memory will never be without a good memory and a good word about him, because he conducted the weekly transmission of the "Taras Church." It's the Taras Church, which has not become the last authority, and I'm not sure if it can be today. This is the arch church in Caneva, where the congregation was made publicly by all Ukrainians. And I would just like to remind you that this land, which today seems to be our national pantheon, our national place of sanctification, is very threatened. They're going to build, you know, Nibulon, they're going to land their own. This is where the reserve is threatened, and we need to do everything right now in order to honor and save Montenegro.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u157	Yes, thank you. Romaniuk, please. After him, Nadosha passed it on to Mutza.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u158	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! On behalf of the citizens of the city of Chernivci, I would like to address the Government of Ukraine with a request to hear about the two urgent problems that need an urgent solution. First of all, I wanted to stop at the need to modernize the city's water supply system. Built back in 1979, the water supply of drinking water with a ban on the Dniester River, located 46 kilometers [46 km] from the district center, is 220 meters [120 m] high, and the water supply capacity is 200,000 cubic feet [200,000 m] per day at 70,000 cubic metres, and the water supply system is morally outdated and extremely energy - efficient. As a result, the most expensive tariff in Ukraine is for blacks. And it doesn't even meet the minimum quality standards for drinking water. The Danish company has developed a water system modernization project that is based on the expansion of the old water pipeline, the replacement of worn-out pipes, networks, and inputs, automatic control, and the simultaneous reduction of the supply of expensive water from the Dniester River, which will enable the optimal operation of the two platoons. But to implement this project, you need government support, namely, to give government guarantees to obtain credit and to pay off the government's loan interest. In addition, there is a high risk of natural disasters on the slopes of Barbus and Odessa. The slopes are constantly affected by shifting processes, especially during the rains. The Government’s comprehensive anti-trafficking programme for the period 1999 through 2005 provided 64 million dollars. Instead, only 12 were funded. According to a survey by the Geotechnical Institute, taking into account the elevated level of groundwater, this situation may have adverse effects on existing buildings in the area as a whole, including housing. The adjusted cost of the entire shift work package is 114 million dollars, out of which there is no cost in the city budget. Please consider my statement as a request to the government to consider, first of all, granting State guarantees to obtain a loan for the implementation of a water supply modernization project in the city of Chernivci, and to repay interest on credit from the state budget. Secondly, in order not to allow natural disasters to develop and fund a targeted programme of anti-removal measures on the streets of Barbus and Odessa. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u159	Thank you. Orestes Mutz. After him, Prestenko gives the speech to Kzarkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u160	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. Dear countrymen! In the West of Ukraine, the Head of State stated that in the coming days he would sign a law that provided for a hard fight against corruption. Noting that some local officials are involved in land corruption in business. But he warned that if there were such traditions here, it would have to be stopped immediately. Each of these words of the President is expensive for the Ternopilans, who have inherited from the "morning" power except for the collapse, the toning, the minimization of taxes, the individual officials, the princes. It is especially sad when, in subjugating a corrupter, the most valuable thing for a poor peasant with his hands torn apart is the earth. A negative example is that of Mr. He presided over this administration, and as Prime Minister Timoshenko, he was rewarded by President Yushchenk. He cannot understand, then, that today there is a need to forget about stealing schemes forever. Instead of caring for the village, he pleases his patrons in Kiev. For "refoulement" it helps to take land into peasants and other fraudulent schemes of millionaire agrarians. It's the owner of the Beechahrobprom, Peter Hadz, and the co-owner of the agrohholding "Mria" by John Guth. The latter was named "Heroy of Ukraine" by the orange authorities. If the orange were to be steered a little further, the title would have been for every con man! It was through Hemu that the common agriculture of the Hempland was neglected. Agrarians sit in the local suburbs, although hundreds of millions of dollars are not added to the country's budget. Although there were 16 cows left in some areas of the region, Thomas was involved in party construction, painted with Huta and Hadzo agrarians, hoping to please the new authorities. There's a tradition in Ternopilland: in positions of responsibility, there are either corrupts, or vagabonds, or pensioners with disabilities under 70 years of age, although there are up to 50,000 students a year in the area. Ternopilska has become a liability for local frauds and those living outside the area and the country. "Lukoil Ukraine," Watt "Dacor West" is already launching shadow schemes, our land on "crime." So today, I asked the MPs for power. Corruption in Ternopilska will be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u161	Yes, Kzarykov. He's told by Gordienko, six minutes. The next one will be the Hrapov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u162	Respectable voters, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished presiding officer! Once again, the Deputy Prime Minister, who is the Minister of Social Policy Tigipco, did not appear today with his report to Parliament. The main reason is that it's supposed to be a disease. For the first time, however, Tigypto is not reporting on the most important issue for our country. It is clear that politics, but all Ukrainian citizens in Donetsk and Lviv and Odessa are most concerned about tariff prices. That is, our component of the social and the programme with which the party of power went to the elections. When we analyzed the activities of Tihyp, we concluded that not one proposal from the faction of the Company of Ukraine, which we require Sergei Leonidovic to include and implement to improve the social dimension in our country, had not been implemented. Our main demand is to jump off the so-called needle of the IMF. The last tranche, which we took from this international structure on the initiative of Tihypka, went completely towards the repayment of the body of the loan and the servicing of that debt. It thus knowingly commits an economic crime or shows its illiteracy by introducing these loans into Ukraine, although it is estimated that the same experts from the Ministry of Finance, independent analysts, loans from the same Russian Federation, even Asian countries, are much cheaper and more effective. Once again, I stress that not one penny of this loan has gone to social support or the real sector of the economy. When we looked at the second pillar of Tihypica, supposedly growing social standards, we had already turned to documents on which Sergey Leonidovich based today on the idea that we are living better, and that the living minimum is becoming much more stable. It's based on the consumer basket. So the consumer basket is regulated by us today, when we look at the documents, at the Cabinet of Ministers' Decision on Approval of Food Packages, Non-Food Packages and Services Packages for Basic Social and Demographic Population Groups, number 656 of 14 April 2000. Although these figures had to change every five years and he promised to revise these figures, today our well-being is still based on that basket. To illustrate how hypocritical these norms have been, we have made a statement on the basis of which the billionaire Tigipco, who now owns the entire social bloc in our country, promises us a cold fucking future. So, if we take a group of non-food products, he offers us one shirt a year, we would like to invite him to support this rule, one purse for women at 5 years of age, seven socks per year and a half. And now I probably understand when I saw Wolfowitz with the problem he had, that probably all billionaire bankers had a problem with their noses. Two pairs of shoes for five years, two shoes for six years. Why are there one rubber boots, really, for seven years? And some wallpapers for three years. Of course, with such standards, our country is likely to come to a pen. But when we took the food basket, we were even more horrified. We have 106 grams of bread per day, Greeks - 5 grams, pasta - 10 grams, egg not working for the country, that is, half for the worker and a quarter - 0.25 for the unemployed. Cardboards, indeed, have been drained by the government, 250 grams per day, and here is the national product problem, 5.5 grams per day, and sausages 25 grams. The items of luxury and surplus for adults included such products as fruit, honey, juice, cheese and confectionery. I realize it's not the main product, but even the alcohol in this basket is not included. So when we compared all the standards that we have today, even though Tihypah was supposed to care for the health of the nation, we turned to drugs. And I want to give you a couple more examples. For all the treatment of a Ukrainian citizen, a caring vice-premier has placed such, return, based on such standards: five packs of cotton per year, five packs of Valerian, valerian, valerian, aspirin, analgina, 5 bubbles of iodine and one tube of child cream. And be healthy, nation. That's why we're doing this one more time today, and I've given you these bright examples when we look at billionaire Tihyp's inactivity, and I'm personally convinced that this is the principle that we talked about from the faction that appointing a billionaire to lead a social worker is equivalent to running a paedophile into a children's home or launching a criminal to run a force agency. I mean, he's a stranger to our troubles. He probably does not notice the rule that today the division between the largest income on declarations in our country, including the Cabinet of Ministers, is one to 160. Therefore, it is clear that until he is retired, nothing in the economic and social bloc, the Government for which we are responsible, will change. Therefore, the faction of the Ukrainian Compatriot again calls on Prime Minister Azarov, to the President, once again, to draw attention to the activities of Tihyp. For example, the Minister of Health had made the correct decision. A man is a professional and a demigod in another industry, i.e. looked at, failed, sent, without insult, without intrigue, without political accounts, out of retirement. On behalf of the faction, we call upon the faction once again from this rostrum to resign Sergey Leonidovich Tihyp, to pursue its banking business, insurance groups and not to disgrace the Government or the party of power in today's political environment, including the millions in the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u163	Yes, Sergey Hrapov. He'll be followed by Lutsky, passed on to Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u164	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! The events of May 9th in Lviv showed what 20 years of falsification of our society had led to, which began with the movement boom6 “Moscal ate your fat!” On the Day of the Great Victory due to the actions of the freemen, when 20-year-old sleepers insulted war veterans, Ukraine was disgraced worldwide. The Ukrainian Company therefore demanded that Lviv be deprived of the right to take the European Football Championship next year and that Dnepropetrovsk be restored. Indeed, the Euro-2012 in Lviv is facing tragic consequences. Imagine if a Russian or Israeli assembly would play in this city, what might be the result for their sick people of the hospitality of the lion neo-Nazis? And a football party could turn into a slaughter. To date, the most optimal and healthy decision would be to transfer Euro2012 to Dnipropetrovsk. We've got a ready stadium, we've got roads, we've got roads, we've got better transportation. The main thing is that in Dnepropetrovsk almost all sites by Euro-2012 are built by private investors. And if Lviv's budget cuts, by the way, and our area, we have a normal climate for investment. I appeal to all those who are indifferent to the fate of Ukraine and its international image, mainly to their countrymen and to their regional authorities. Let us show Europe that Dnepropetrovsk, who lost Euro-2012 in many ways thanks to Julia Vladimirovne Timoshenko, will be able to replace Lviv with dignity. But depriving the lions of a European championship is not the solution to the problem of the Fascism of Ukraine. On behalf of my constituents, I would like to request the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanuković, and Minister of Justice, Aleksandr Lavrinović, to prohibit the activities of organizations such as Freedom and others in Ukraine. It was the country most affected by fascists and gang members to have the political forces that were the propagandists of Nazism and xenophobia. Banderov's legacy of murderers is no place in the holy Ukrainian land. And we Ukrainian patriots must do everything we can to ensure that these forces are banned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u165	Thank you. Ivan Popescu. He'll be followed by Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u166	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Today, according to the insistence of my voters, I would like to report the state of affairs on some of the questions that I have announced in the last two months from the parliamentary rostrum. At first, I would like to thank those officials where the problems raised in my questions have been resolved or the situation has changed for the better. Yes, I would like to thank the head of the Tachiv District State Administration of the Zakarpat district of Mikhail Schellever and the representative of the Tajov Rayrada of the Vasil Botush Party of the Regions, whose efforts have resulted in the lifting of a hasty decision to close the hospital in the village of Lower Apsha Tachiv district of Zakarpatja. And this facility is going to work. Thanks are due to the words of thanks, and the head of the Regional Regional Government Administration of the Montenegrin Region of Mikola Zagarjuk, who, as a result of our arrangements, took over the personal control of the rebuilding of the bridge across the Siret River in the village of Suchevena, and the work of repairing the bridge was restored. At the same time, concerns about the repair of bridges damaged during last year’s floods in the village of Jizera and in the village of Krasnoyl village of Ursoya. If immediately after my request for work in the Jesuits had been restored and even another iron concrete flight had been installed, now that the cost of work had stopped, there was a decision to put technology on another object that had funding. The situation is also complicated by the fact that the military, which installed a temporary pantonic bridge there last summer, as the contract expired, can take it away. As was the case with the pontoon bridge in the village of Krasnoylsk, where only a few wooden beams were temporarily installed, tied with a rope on which the boards were laid. As a result, the temporary bridge became even more dangerous. On the basis of the above, I appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the Management Board of Ukraine, to the Minister of Finance, asking not only to include these bridges in the list of objects to be financed in 2011, but also to allocate the necessary funding in order to immediately restore the repair work of bridges in the village of Ježivci and in the village of the Krasnoil Stražinetsky region of the Chernivsky region, where some 15,000 people live. Adam Ivanovich, please consider the second part of my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance and the leadership of the "Staff" because I have already made the appropriate references. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u167	Thank you. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please. Behind him is Yuri Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u168	Mr. Stanislaw Arzewityn, head of the Association of Ukrainian Banks. Dear colleagues of the banker, the distinguished customers of the banking system, I have a pleasant opportunity to welcome you from this parliamentary rostrum with our professional festival, the Day of Banking Workers. Today, there are thousands of highly qualified professionals in the banking system who are no doubt part of the intellectual elite of our society. In fact, the banking system is the equivalent of our independent state, so all its successes and temporary failures are inextricably linked to the modern history of our independent Ukraine. In times of crisis, banks are forced to find themselves in dangerous water between government and business, lenders, investors, and investors. And in each of these segments, the crisis has revealed a huge number of problems that have been brought to the shoulders of bankers. But despite this, the banking sector as a whole has shown resilience under extremely difficult crisis conditions, which is a testimony to your high professionalism. Our main gain is that Ukrainian banks have maintained their systemic functionality and continued to perform their functions during the most difficult period despite existing non-banking problems. This has also been facilitated by timely financial support from the National Bank of Ukraine, and this demonstrates the consistency of all levels of the Ukrainian banking system. It is important to stress that the professional conscience of the bank officials, who have faithfully performed their duties, has also played a major role in the stability of the banking system. The recommendation for successful banking development, just like systems, should be to maintain an effective market environment and a healthy competition between different groups of banks. Today, the adoption of a strategy for the development of the national capital market, including the banking sector, by 2020, is crucial. In doing so, such a strategy should be adopted, not in isolation from the needs of society, but by fully aligning its basic parameters with the needs of the real economy of Ukraine and society for this period. The banking system must regain the status of the engine of economic reforms. The banking system is worthless without its customers. A social package of legislative acts to define the role of the State in the protection of citizens' constitutional rights must be adopted at the national level when the financial situation of the country is complicated, such as the Act on the Restoration of the Payments of Citizens. And to the end. I am convinced that the Association of Ukrainian Banks, along with the entire banking community in this difficult country, will focus its efforts on implementing basic principles of banking, such as morality, meeting ethical standards in relation to colleagues and customers and fair competition in the market. This will guarantee a return of confidence in the field. On this holiday spring day, I cordially wish you, fellow bankers, success in the operation of your bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u169	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u170	I wish you and your loved ones success in your bank, well - being, well - being, well - being, well - being, and well - being. With a holiday!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u171	Yes, please, Yuri Gnatkevitch. Prepare Michael Wolinz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u172	Dear compatriots! Yuri Gnatkevitch, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". You may have pointed out that today in the afternoon, in the second part of the session, there are no two factions: "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and "Black Timoshenko is the Father's Motherhood" who made a joint statement, a protest against the abuse of former Interior Minister Yuri Lucenko. I'm not going to touch on the political aspect of this problem, it's widely known, and it's understandable, because there are still over 300 criminal cases in the Attorney General's Office that Lucenko filed, which are mainly focused around one problem, around the problem of the theft of formerly state socialist property in our country. It is not a secret that no factory, no factory, and no industry has been bought out honestly and for money that has been earned. These are the issues that Yuri Lucenko has dealt with in his criminal affairs. And if you start planting someone in jail, of course not Timoshenko and not Lucenka. It's those who have robbed factories and factories that have stolen, if you want, those industries that have become billionaires at the age of 40 -- they would have to start with our authority that wants to shut people down, these people's mouths. But I also want to pay attention to the medical aspect of this problem. But since I'm an experienced hungry person, I've actually been dealing with this problem for the last 20 years as a cure, I want to draw the attention of Yuri Lucenka and the same authority that he's crossed the line. I want to remind you that there is no cure for hunger in prison. In prison it is impossible to get out of hunger, which is the main thing. Here I was recently so experienced in the matter of starving I got out of the wrong treatment and lay down, barely saved me, three weeks in Fefania. In prison it is not possible to put clichés, which are a prerequisite for prolonged hunger. So I would like to draw the attention of Yuri Vitaliovich, my countryman and colleague, who can become the hero of Alster. You remember when "iron lady" Thatcher said, "Let them die!".. And they all died. I don't think you should. There's a big, big fight ahead. I'd like to pay attention to even doctors. The droplets at these stages and the introduction of additional emulsions that they think can help can only harm a person. Lucenka's life is in danger. I call upon the authorities to release him, and I call upon him. I support those who ask him to stop starving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u173	Thank you. Yes, please, Michael Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u174	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the TV setters, the radio listeners! I want to touch on the topic that probably concerns Ukrainian citizens most today – the wages, their size and wages. But on January 1, 2011, the debt amounted to $1 billion,218 million, and by April 1, it was 1 billion,324 million. An increase of over 100 million dollars. But if it's the official part of the debt that's shown in the statistical offices and the failure of the authorities to pay off, they can still have some control if they want. But up to 40 percent of today’s unpaid debt is still outstanding. The biggest problem is slave labor. And if you add pay in envelopes. For example, the Donetsk region. Ukraine's largest debt is officially 290 million, but given its unpaid salary in envelopes, it's going to be 370 million, and it's going to be an informal sector, and it's going to be an additional debt on salary. For example, Donetsk district, Greenco-Don enterprise in Donetsk. A total of 200 workers. The debt is 1 million dollars. Think about it! Or Kharkiv district, the Malishev State Enterprise: 20 million. But in fact, the debt is 31 million, because there's no payment for three social insurance funds, and so people don't include hospitals, they don't include jobs for a period of non-payment to these social insurance funds. The same problem with the pension fund. Again, Kharkishkin, the Chewchenka factory: 25 million debt on salary. Again, Kharkiv, the airline, Kharkiv Airlines: 30 million debts. Or, for example, everyone knows about the whole of Ukraine's company in Kharkiv's Gorelektrotrans. After the strike of the company's employees in December last year, in April alone, debt was paid off on a salary of 27 million -- that is, with very low wages -- but the social insurance fund, up to three funds, amounts to 40 million dollars. Again, people suffer because they work, and this is not part of their work. What I want to say is that today there's another prescription for the Forest District Attorney's Office market. [[I have a limited time.]] And once again, the MAPs are dismantled, and market employees in all of Kiev today are gathering and there will be rallying again, people not satisfied with this situation. Next thing you know, I'd like to emphasize. A colleague of mine from the Party of the Regions spoke from this rostrum. She expressed concern about the protests taking place all over Ukraine, and they took place at the Supreme Council yesterday. Dear TV setters.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u175	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u177	Yes, and Anatoly Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u178	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Respectable citizens! In my speech, I would like to draw attention to this issue, the very environmental one that is in our country today, especially since the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the 2012 Budget Policy Guidelines in the previous week. And what I was going to say is that insufficient attention is being paid by the government to moving towards progressive environmentally sound manufacturing technologies in all sectors of the economy, as well as the development of non-traditional renewable energy sources. The latter should be seen as an important factor in improving energy security and reducing the technological impact on the environment. This is particularly relevant in the context of the aftermath of the Chernobyl disaster and the accident at Japan's Focusima-1 station, which has forced the world to look at nuclear power. Already today, the Japanese leadership has announced that the construction of new nuclear stations has been halted, and the German government has developed a phase-out plan for nuclear energy and an increase in green energy to 35 percent by 2020. At the same time, for 2011, about 900 million dollars have been allocated to Ukraine’s renewable energy budget, together with the financing of energy-saving technologies, while billions of dollars are planned to be spent on the construction of two blocks of the Hmělní nuclear station. But for no one is the secret that Ukraine has a promising way of developing non-traditional renewable energy sources: bioenergy, mine methane extraction and disposal, secondary energy, non-balanced hydrocarbons, wind, solar energy, environmental thermal energy, and the development of the economic potential of small rivers. Today, bioenergy is the fastest - growing technology in the world. The energy use of all types of biomass is expected to provide annual replacements of 9.2 million tons of conditional fuel, including by energy use of residues of agricultural production, wood, wood waste, peat, solid household waste, and so forth. In this regard, I urge the government to take a more balanced approach to the issue of environmental security and channel financial resources into the 2011 budget rather than to build new atomic blocks, but rather to increase security for active atomic blocks and to develop alternative energy sources for the future of our children and grandchildren. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-20-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who wanted to speak, had the opportunity to do so. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. I remind you that next week the national MPs are working in the constituencies with the electors. The next plenary session will take place on Tuesday, May 31.
