ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:32]] Cards were registered in the 368 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, for whatever reason you know today, the Supreme Council will be working on a schedule for Thursday, pending the completion of its consideration of the issues identified by the timetable. Please don't stop me from working. So, honourable colleagues, considering that we need to announce the MP's requests, let me now announce the MP's requests, and then we'll put a motion on the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] One moment, please! Dear national deputies, and then the Supreme Council will determine how long we will be working. [[B in m in s a l in]] I believe that in order for us to work on a Friday schedule today, it was necessary not to block the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday. So, dear colleagues, please calm down. That's how I propose. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! To make parliamentary inquiries. At the same time, two factions called for a break and for the Conciliation Council to be held. I suggest we do it this way. I'll read the MP's questions, then I'll invite the faction leaders to meet in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council, we'll consult, Adam Ivanovich will continue the session. We will inform you about the questions discussed at the Conciliation Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! I'm leading up to your famous announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", articles 59, 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and in accordance with the application submitted, I report the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shepeleva Alexander Alexandrovitch, from the MP of the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, Adam Ivanovich will now continue to hold a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The faction leaders are requested to meet in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'd like everyone to calm down and get back to work. The leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions are requested to meet in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk is next in session. We continue to work hard.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, we now have 30 minutes to announce requests and to speak on the grounds of dissatisfaction with requests. However, statements of dissatisfaction will only be made within 30 minutes of the parliamentary request. A total of 124 parliamentary inquiries were received. Let me announce them. Vladimir Yavorowski to the President of Ukraine on the grave violation of Ukrainian constitutional law: Chernobyl disabled persons, Afghans, children of war -- law enforcement agencies that are involved in protests throughout Ukraine. I'm voting on a motion to support a request. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:06:16]] For-7. Only seven national deputies were supported. Olega Lalashka to the President of Ukraine on the non-admission of the destruction of the state-owned plant "Renovated-Operating tram depot No. 1" of Lviv Municipal Enterprise Lvivelektrotrans. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to support the request. [[10:06:46]] For -6 Not supported. Vladimir Karpuk to the Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the transfer of higher education institutions, medical and scientific institutions of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to the administration of the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports; the use of urgent measures of response and change to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order of 16 November 2011 "Some issues of administration by higher educational institutions". Groups of National Deputies to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the State Tax Service of Ukraine, the Regional Administration of the Department for the Control of the Production and Looping of Spirits, Alcohol and Tobacco Products of the State Tax Service of Ukraine in the Kyiv area on the need for action aimed at the development of small cities, using this State support in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Approval of the State Small City Development Programme. [[Bondica, Prutnik and others. Total 4 deputies]] Jury Karmazin is the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Adviser to the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Humanities and Social and Political Affairs Committee of the President of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to respond to the restrictions on freedom of speech expressed in the unlawful actions of individual high-ranking officials aimed at the destruction of TV "ATN", "Fora", "ATVK Law", which is in grave contravention of the standards of articles 17 and 34 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine "On TV and Radiocommunication", "On State Support for Media and Social Protection of Journalists", article 19 of the General Declaration of Human Rights, article 10 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, and which leads to the restriction of citizens' access to public information, public accountability and social protection of journalists. Valeria Bevenza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of the industrial development of the Broad-Croat family of crystalline species located in the area of sanitary protection of the city of Kurortu Hmilnik of the Vinick region. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an increase in the state budget subsidy for the city of Kirovgrad for compensation payments for the passage of the city's pension categories. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the verification of the correctness and relevance of the new tariffs for centralized water supply and water supply services for residents of the Kropivnicka Station in the region of Kyrovograd. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amending the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2012 to ensure a proper standard of living for employees in the budgetary sectors of Kyrovgradska. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine, on ensuring the requirements of the professions of education and science, health, culture, public institutions and the social sphere of the Kirovograd region regarding the non-admission to the 2012 National Budget of Ukraine of standards aimed at reducing social benefits, which would lead to violations of the constitutional rights of citizens to a decent life. Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of additional subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine to finance the construction of water supply and other important social facilities in the city of Lebedin Sumsk. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for the payment of debts from salaries at the state-owned company "Zitomir tram and trolleybus management", protection of the constitutional rights of employees of the enterprise and residents of the city of Žitomir and the area. Eugene Kzarow to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the verification of the legality of land tenure and construction in the city of Kyiv. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on non-compliance with article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine in the liquidation of the Lutsky garrison military hospital. [[Martinyuk, Vashtuk, and others. Total 8 deputies]] [[reprofile]] Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister, the President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources for the failure to meet the legal requirements of the People's Deputy and to take immediate action to save the Kuyalnicki Liman, which is in a state of ecological disaster, through the construction of clean-up facilities in the village of John the Odessa, the prohibition of any economic activity within the Kuyalnicki Liman, and the criminalization of persons who carry out illegal extractions of healing natural resources and beneficial fossils in its territory and officials who cover these criminal acts with unlawful inaction. Catherine Vaschuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the delay in drawing up appropriate documents to assign the title "Mother Hero" to the many-year-old mothers of the village of Chervah in the Manevich district of Volinsk. Mikoli Derkac to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution to the situation that has arisen in connection with the relocation of residents of the disaster houses in the Shamisha Balkan region of Dniprodjnsk Dnipropetrovsk. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister for the exemption from the ecological tax of organic fertilizer-using agricultural enterprises. Olega Láška to the Prime Minister for the non-admission of the destruction of the state-owned enterprise "Renovated-Operating tram depot No. 1" of Lviv Municipal Enterprise Lvivelektrotrans. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the constructionist, the total disregard of the bans by a limited-liability "Investment and Construction Group" on the illegal, chaotic construction of the buffer zone of Kiev, on the street of Olesia Gonchar and the lack of proper response by the authorities and local self-government to the destruction of the historic centre of Kiev. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the delay in the construction of the Sub-Resurrection Bridge Passage and the breakup of the construction programme of the metropolis on the Left Bank of Kiev. Alexander Cnervolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Government for the further discrimination against the city of Kyiv in the change to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2011. Alexander Horoshević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the financing of urban electricity transport. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the insufficient level of funding for the health sector in the Poltav region, as foreseen by the 2012 State Budget, which will result in further degradation of the sector, reduction of the network, the state of health workers, increased social tension in the region, and total loss of authority of the state. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council for Privatization on the action of the group of individuals to capture the Indar insulin plant and other state assets of the Ukrmedprom State Share Company by raiding. Sergei Pavlenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to improve the procedure for the purchase and sale of railway tickets. Anatolia Yagoferov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is the Minister of Social Policy for the application of the Ukrainian Law on National Insurance. Edouard Prutnik to the Office of the Ministers of the Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Montenegrin Regional Administration on the need to take urgent measures to compensate employees of the Novgorod-Several Central Hospital for the payment of salaries for November and the timely payment of salaries for December this year, the allocation of a subsidy from the State budget for the provision of an autonomous source of electricity in 2012, the decision on the issue of the purchase of tuberculosis for the diagnosis of tuberculosis in children in the Chernigiv region through centralised procurement at the cost of the State budget, and the establishment of a hospital district centre based on the centralized hospital for hospital services. Victor Oliynik to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for non-execution of the Court's rulings by the State Administration. Roman Tkacha to the Authorized President of Ukraine from the rights of the child on the intention of the illegal release of the Director of Odessa special boarding school No. 7 for children with polio and cerebral palsy of Yuri Semenyuk. Vladimir Danilenko to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine regarding the use of appropriate measures to stop the beating and humiliation of children in Ukraine’s public educational institutions. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the legal assessment of the attempt by the pre-Denmark lawyer Vladimir Olencevich to rename Hero of Ukraine from Vasil Stus and Vladimir Iwasuk. Catherine Vaszczuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the proper investigation of the criminal case of a traffic accident that took place on 17 July 2011 in Kiev, resulting in the death of a resident of Volin Region Volodymyr Lishtuk. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for free access of Ukrainian children to all kinds of medical services. Alexander Dove to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the commission of illegal actions by the activists of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association on November 4, 2011 on the day of the great Orthodox festival of the icon of God's Mother of Kazan. Sergey Tereshuka to Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the construction of an underwater pipeline to the village of Potash in the region of Cherkas region. Alexija Plotnikov to the Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Kyiv District State Administration, Kyivo-Svjetošinska District State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the citizen's appeal to each person to assist in the restoration of building No.23 on the street of Bilogirska in the town of Bojarka Kyivo-Svjetošina district of Kyiv Region and to ensure the proper level of provision of housing and utility services in accordance with the Ukrainian Housing Services Act. Valery Bondik to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration on the need to consider a collective appeal by the territorial community of Uzin Bilocerkow district of Kyiv region on the issue of the transfer to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine of a community service facility. Mikli Kulczynski to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the involvement in disciplinary responsibility of the judge of the Shisack District Court of Poltavian Region of Natalia Gusak. Vladimir Philenka and Yuri Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Kyiv City Council on the use of immediate measures to respond to the inaction of the authorities of the Kyiv Public Prosecutor's Office regarding the theft and destruction of property belonging to the territorial community of Kiev, the illegal occupation by the garage cooperative “Scientist” and the illegal construction in its territory of a tower whose activities are detrimental to the environment and threaten the life and health of the city's inhabitants. Sergey Moshak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the inaction of law enforcement authorities in investigating thefts in the village of Lazreka in the region of Poltava. Andrija Škila to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the anti-Ukraine statements of the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Baldiriev. Viacheslav Koval to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on violations of the law of law by coworkers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Valerija Beviz to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, on the issue of legal assessment and on the involvement of law enforcement officials in connection with the non-application of appropriate response measures during the raiding of the hydromasz private enterprise in the city of Mikolayev, which resulted in the loss of lives and other tragic consequences. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures of prosecutorial response to the illegal actions of senior officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine and the Pension Fund of Ukraine, which are widely ignored in court decisions on the order of calculation of disability pensions as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Alexia Fedun to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the detection and elimination of violations of legislation in the field of preventing and combating corruption in the actions of officials of the Office of Advocacy of the Odessa City Council. Valentina Matvijeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate reaction of the procurator's authorities to violations of the property rights of the territorial community of the city of Žitomir. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the dismantling of the fence around the House of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the address of the city of Kiev, 5 Mikhail Gruszewski Street. Ostap Semerak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for assaulting members of the Special Unit of the Griffon Judicial Police on the life and health of the National MP and deliberately violating the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Prosecutor's Office's Office of Criminal Procedure Law in the course of the examination of allegations of crimes. Basil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-use of the Regional Department of the State Property Fund of Ukraine in the Ternopil area of sufficient measures aimed at registering ownership of the debtor's property, the private enterprise SC-Service-Centre Stry, which is obliged by the court to pay more than 5 million dollars for the Ternopil district council. Vasil Spak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of land legislation in the villages of the Letician region of the Hmelnitsk Region. Victor Oliynik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal issue of permits for the construction of objects on Truhanovo Island in Kiev. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the examination of the failure to take a procedural decision in the order of article 97 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, according to journalist Mustafa Naima, on the alleged crime committed during a secret ballot in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 3 November 2011 concerning the election of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Alexander Pasenyuk, and the prosecution of officials of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the improper performance of official duties in the examination of an application for a crime. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of media-published material on the repeated receipt by the former head of the Ukrainian Supreme Administrative Court, Alexander Pasenyuk of bribes, particularly largely from the former head of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Igor Zvarić, and on the question of the violation of the criminal case concerning Alexander Pasenyuk as part of article 368 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, as well as on the judicial evaluation of the investigators and prosecutors of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, who, through the manipulation of criminal proceedings against Igor Zvaric, provided for the elimination of Alexander Pasenyuk from criminal responsibility. Grigory Smituha to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the insufficient consideration of the appeal of the Ukrainian National Deputy to a violation of the criminal justice case of citizens who invested in the construction of a gas pipeline on the Dnipro Mass in the city of Vysgrad Kyiv district. Catherine Samuelk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the law, the conduct of illegal business activities by the largest supermarket network in the city of Herson. Leonidas Grač to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the use by officials of the Crimean Prosecutor’s Office of knowingly false reports that fall within the scope of article 383 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which was used in the Criminal Procedure Order of 18 October 2010 concerning the Deputy of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Viacheslav Zaharov. Mikoli Shershun to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of existing legislation regarding the regional landscape park "Bakalska Kos". Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the establishment for the population of the city of Vasilkova Kyiv in the area of unwarranted heat tariffs, centralized heat supply and hot water supply. Paul Mouchcan to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the detention of the director of the Ukrainian Education Agency, Ruslan Maslakov. Sergio Moshak to the Attorney - General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, for not giving a reply in essence to the MP’s appeal and delaying repair work in the city of Kiev. Sergey Shrappova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the issue of the preservation of occupational rest bases and the children's health camp of the Public Shareholder Society of the Orzhenikidev Mining and Enriching Corps of the Dnipropetrov region. Sergia Chrapova to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the inaction of the responsible authorities of the Office of the Zavodské district of Dniprožinska. The branch of the Procurator-General for the creation, in the form of an advocacy of the interests of the State, of the Odessa District Prosecutor's Office and of the Personal Prosecutor of the Odessa Region of Igor Evaluation, of legal grounds and psychological premeditations for the emergence in the approximately 20 families of Odessa who have legally acquired and were conscientiously acquirers of land ownership rights, of a sense of complete inviolability from the arbitrary actions of the state authorities in the person of the prosecutor's office and of panic sentiments about the possibility of the continued existence of their families, who may lose all their property, which has already led to the killing of a man and to the suicide of a young man, the father of two young children. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the investigation of the statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Baldiriev, on the desirability of separating Galicina from Ukraine and the entry of Ukraine into the Russian Federation. [[Pussy, Culchinsky, and others. Total 12 deputies]] Vladimir Rybak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the lack of response of law enforcement authorities to the appeal of the Ukrainian national deputies to the citizen of Albina Weselova about the need for the liberation of Truhan Island in Kiev from illegal forgetfulness. Oleg Zarubinsky, head of the Ukrainian State Service for the Protection of Personal Data on the provision of meaningful clarifications to officials and entrepreneurs related to the implementation of the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act. Sergey Tereshuka to head the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the approach to the villages of Kyslin and Rusalivka Mankow region of Cherkas region from the road of Zashkov-Buki-Ozrna. Vladimir Leschenko, head of the Ukrainian State Water Agency for the technical condition of the Dnipro Donbas Canal, the prospects and the necessary financial costs of its capital repair. Vladimir Leschenko is head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy regulations on the appropriateness of the costs of bank and post office services for the consumption of electricity provided for in the current tariff structure, the actual cost of these costs. Viacheslava Kirilenka, head of the Ukrainian National Consumer Protection Inspectorate, head of the Kiev City Public Administration, on infringement of consumer rights, legislation and discrimination against Ukrainian citizens on the linguistic side of the travel company OUPEN KEEV, which provides excursion services on two-story convertible buses in Kiev. Igor Greeniv to the prosecutor of the Kyiv District, the Boyar City Head, for failing to implement the decision of the session of the Boyar City Council of Kiev-Swiatoshin district, Kyiv region, on 13 March 2006. Jurija Gnatkević to the prosecutor of Kiev on the grounds of the city's dismissal from the consideration of the two Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Attorney-General's Office on the criminal behaviour of experts and the strange conduct of the judge of the Halosijov District Court of Natalija Clerdnchenko on the assessment of the actions of experts in the civil case. Paul Silent to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the privatization of the facilities of the Kyiv Municipal Academy of Opera and Ballet for Children and Youth by private structure. Thus, the honourable colleagues, all 124 parliamentary inquiries that have come, have been announced. We've got six minutes left on the question of "Response to MPs." I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Anatoly Grizzenka. You don't? I can't see. Then consider the answers to the parliamentary request of the national MP Vladimir Leschchenka. Please turn on the microphone or on the rostrum as you wish. From the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u3	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, I am not only not satisfied with the answer to my parliamentary request, I am outraged by the attitude of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and personally the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Azarov Mikoli Janović, to the requests of Ukrainian national deputies. It's not just ignoring it, it's contempt for the Ukrainian national deputy and for the whole of it for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The point of the matter. There's a long-term diesel train in the Chernigiv-Gornostivka region. On it, simple people travel to their respective areas, towns, forests for fungi and berries, to their parents and mothers, and to their relatives in the surrounding villages. And peasants from Ripkin and Chernigov region travel to their district and district centers to work; to hospitals; to work and social protection of the population; to other government authorities and institutions; and to the market to sell produce and make purchases for themselves. With this diesel train, of course, there are many veterans of war and labor, disabled people, black people, Afghans, representatives of other low-security groups who, according to the law, have access benefits. The direction of the Southwest Railway didn't like that the diesel train was fuelled. So by its decision, it replaced a regular diesel train with a high-comfort diesel train, thus depriving the above-mentioned categories of citizens of legal benefits. From this point of view, during the summer- fall of the current year, I sent two parliamentary appeals to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Azarov Mikola Janović, the fourth person from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I asked for an official response to the government’s attitude toward the fact that the railways themselves took away the fares of the people. All four times, Jefimenko, the first deputy minister of infrastructure, sent a reply. He reported difficulties in the work of Ukrzalznice, the damage of passenger transport, and so forth, and not a word about the interests of passengers. But I wasn't interested in the Ministry of Infrastructure, so I asked Azarov to report the Cabinet's attitude to this problem. I didn't get the answer. I consider this to be the attitude of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Azarov Mikli Janović, to the request of the Ukrainian national deputy by openly failing article 86 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. I appeal to the head of government again. Dear Mikolo Janovich, I ask you to consider a matter of personal concern, in fact, to take action on his decision essentially and to give me an official answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u4	Thank you. He had Sergey the Upper, but he takes off his request. That's why Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! We are in such a situation today that my level of discontent does not match the level of dissatisfaction and the level of dissatisfaction of the country. But nevertheless, this is a classic example of how government officials today communicate with journalists and how they communicate with MPs. For several months, I have been trying to figure out how to act in the interests of the Ukrainian State, not just me, a group of national deputies, to act as the world’s largest, best and most expensive helicopter near Canev. So, and so far, the answers are like, "Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich and all the national MPs who are not up," and they're worried about where the 100 million dollars of government money were. We're informing you that 100 million state funds to build the world's most expensive helipad. We buy the best radio stations, the best equipment system, and we compete in the world that it is the most expensive and technically equipped object. So we'll tell you later how much money went out for this." And I ask my colleagues, "How many tourists? You promised that all the rich Ukrainian diaspora would throw away all the money, and on helicopters would fly to Shevchenk, and we would get rich on that subject. Because the money that Ukraine will earn on helicopters, it will pay the Chernobyls, the Afghans." So far, no one's found any living tourists, they're looking for diaspora, and entire groups are looking for where to find any tourist who's going to be able to do this project that's going to be thrown into over 100 million, and that's where they're going to go. So, of course, I want again from the government and from our head of district administration, which Victor Yanukovich and the Party of Regions in Cherkaszczina represents, the Hero of Sergey Tuluba, to ask how his project is going to work. [[Ukraine’s Hero]] Because he taught us, he says we have tourism experts there who don't understand, and we're going to show you tourism right now. So we're going to blow all the money we've put in the Cherkas region into the helipad, and we're going to make a profit out of it. And then I'll keep working with the D.A., because if the district administration hides this information, the government hides it, the information. [[It's classified information.]] I just want to tell you that, my friends, we don't have a Mongol tartar or Germans on the historic mountains yet, but go and see, we're still going to have a powerful helicopter near the Supreme Council -- so it's really important to me. I respect billionaires who don't want to travel, they want to fly over Ukraine, but respect the Ukrainian people. Because if you were building helicopters for your money, I'd be silent, and if you're building for Ukrainian money, respect this people and the country you live in. So I demand specific answers from Governor Tulub, from the government of Azarov, and then I will inform you that he is digging under Shevchenk's grave.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! We still have requests from national MPs who are dissatisfied with the response to the MP's request. But at the same time, I stress that we can discuss this matter within 30 minutes, so on the next Friday, when we announce the parliamentary requests, we will be in line with the order of the queue. the MPs will have the right to speak with their argument of dissatisfaction at any of the other MPs' requests, petitions, letters. Dear colleagues! We held a meeting of the Conciliation Council. In accordance with the Rules, the initiators of the Conciliation Board shall be entitled to a statement in up to three minutes. Please, Cosmiakin Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Unfortunately, the Conciliation Council, which had just ended, did not end in anything, we received no answer from the authorities to our questions that we had asked yesterday. Unfortunately, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko -- torture continues over her, unfortunately she will still be in prison, and no law will be passed on decriminalization. Perhaps because the Law of the earth is in order today. Therefore, your attention is given to the statement by the faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko”, which is joined by the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. "On December 8, the authorities performed an unprecedented act of absurdity and illegality, we can simply say: provocation. I decided to re-arrest Julia Timoshenko, who was already behind bars. It's just that in the S.I.S.C.C., despite laws and sanity, during the off-duty period, a Stalinese trinity for 12 hours tried our leader, Julius Timoshenko, a woman who has been unable to get out of bed for a month and has not yet received a clear diagnosis or proper treatment, a leader of the opposition who has been in prison for more than four months illegally and without justification, but a fear of which forces the power to take more absurd and marsmatic steps. Yesterday’s events show that there is no judiciary in the country, but there is only a dictator and a forceful organ as a tool of repression. All of this makes you do an analogy when you're 37 years old. The authorities don't care about the European values she talks about so much abroad. They don't care about human values. They have one goal: to destroy Timoshenko, not only morally, but physically. On the other hand, yesterday’s judgment by the Lukyan court was not intended to destroy only the leader of the opposition. This decision of power, approved before the accession summit, has deliberately killed the European perspective of Ukraine. The authors of this decision are known by the whole country as President Janukovic, the Attorney-General of Pshonka and his first deputy Kuzmin, who are resuscitating 15-year-old cases overturned by all courts; this is the head of the Security Service of Horoshkovsky, who, with the willingness of the pioneer, is responsible for the possibility of double arrests and triple executions; this is a team of insolvents and corrupts. They are the ones who are killing Julia Timoshenko; they are the ones who are ruining the Ukrainian hope of a decent European standard of living. At the same time today, you see, in the Supreme Council, most people have blocked the rostrum themselves to commit the most extensive crime and to extend today's robbery law on the theft of Ukrainian land. This shameful law will be abolished, and the land will then be returned to the people of Ukraine. We, the Faction BUT, the Fatherland, as well as the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" continue to protest against the lawlessness and the willfulness of the current regime. Repressors should be held accountable, including by applying personal sanctions to them from developed countries. Julius Timoshenko and other opponents, who have been recognized by all the world’s political prisoners, are to be released. Only removing criminals from power can stop the youth from political repression and bring Ukraine back to the real one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u8	Microphone, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u9	[[Applause]] I finish my speech and I want to say that we will see that our leader is free and that democracy will prevail in the country. Thank you for your attention. Juli will!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u10	Dear national deputies, distinguished national deputies, we continue our work. Before that, let me tell you what suggestions were discussed at the Conciliation Council. Again, it was about the Supreme Council of Ukraine taking steps to free Timoshenko, as well as the adoption of the draft Law amending 365 articles. I've suggested to my esteemed colleagues, if we're willing to address these issues, then listen to the information, if you want reports from everyone who has a bearing on this problem, and then make a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include a bill on article 365 in the Supreme Council's consideration. If there is no positive decision, then we need to continue to consult and look for the required number — 226 votes. At the same time, all of my suggestions do not receive adequate support. So I can assume and conclude that a process is needed, not a movement in solving the problem. So I suggest to my fellow national MPs, let's continue to try not to block each other, but to find acceptable, understandable, but, above all, those decisions that will find an appropriate response in society, not just in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now consider removing the differences in the text of the adopted law. And I would like to ask you, honourable colleagues, in addition to everything else, to consider the proposal that we be doing plenary work today, pending the completion of the consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for today and without the "Variable." And as for the land issue, the land market bill, I would ask that we all carefully start those agreements that we sign when necessary and where there are agreed positions on the adoption of certain laws. Then we'll have fewer mutual accusations. Dear colleagues! We need to remove the disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[on the improvement of certain provisions of administrative jurisdiction]] On 17 November 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[on the improvement of certain provisions of administrative jurisdiction]] A review of the text of the adopted law shows that its individual positions contain both internal disagreements and apparent inconsistencies with the provisions of the Ukrainian Tax Code, as well as the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Act "To Amend Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine" in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Customs Code, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 3 November 2011. Taking into account the initiative of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice and in accordance with article 131 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a proposal is made to exclude from the text of the adopted law paragraph 29 of section I, paragraph 1, and to amend the first sentence of part one of article 267 of the Code of Administrative Justice. In the first sentence of part 10 of the word "and likewise, if a statement is made in violation of the rules provided for in part one and part two of this article" delete. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:45:35]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the matter. Dear colleagues, let's set up our schedule today. I'm voting on the proposal that we work today without the "Victory" until the finalization of the Friday schedule. Thursday-Friday. Please vote. [[10:46:24]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on the issue of domestic government bonds]] [[Registration number 9548]] Please vote. [[10:47:02]] For 239. Decision taken. I ask the committee to immediately submit this bill for consideration. The government made an appropriate urgent request to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and status of judges is put to the vote. [[on the improvement of the status of members of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 9514]] Please vote. [[10:47:44]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the proposal to include in the agenda a bill approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine in support of the United Nations Operation in Côte d'Ivoire [[Registration number 9566]] The point is, there is a need to continue our mission to maintain peace. Please vote. [[10:48:27]] For 243 Decision taken. I would ask the secretariat to prepare the necessary conclusions so that we can consider these bills today. Yes, dear colleagues, the issue of ratification. The draft Law on the Ratification of the EAFRD Depository Instrument, which is subject to payment, is being announced for consideration. Is there a warning about this document? The committee handled it accordingly and decided to support the draft Act on the Ratification of the Subscription Tool. The Chief Scientific and Legal Authority has made positive conclusions on the subject of this law. I'm voting on the proposal for. Now, one minute, I'll finish then. On the ratification of the Law. on the approval of the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the EAFRD Depository Instrument, which is subject to payment on demand. Please vote. [[10:49:48]] For 240 Decision taken. Microphone, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u11	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Well, think about what's going on right now. There's the Ukrainian Code of Rules of the Supreme Council, which I think we're using, I repeat, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. There is a law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. They're not cancelled, they're not cancelled, they're ad-hoc, they can't be repealed. They predicted that there would be a government before us today. We don't have a government. Apparently, the government is cooking now, and last night's provocation with Julia Timoshenko showed that he's preparing for the surrender of the Ukrainian gas transport system -- first. The second is that it strengthens relations with the European community. And the third is that all of this is done for the sake of those political forces that want to drag us into the Customs Union. I demand, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that the reporters report as provided by the regulations. Because there's a lot of probing that's anti-national.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to take into account Yuri Carmazin's remarks. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Economic, Scientific and Industrial Cooperation is being announced for consideration. Is there any warning on this? Does no one object to making a decision? I'm asking. Okay. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the issue of a reduced procedure. [[10:51:46]] For 231 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Copilov Vadim Anatoliyovich. The reporter is Stephen Kurpil. Please, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u13	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Economic, Scientific, Technical and Industrial Cooperation has been developed for the purpose of implementing the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Economic, Scientific and Technological Cooperation, done on 4 July 2011 in Kiev. According to section 2 of article 9 of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, the agreement is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by adopting a law on ratification. The ratification of the agreement will enable the two-way cooperation agreement to be directly implemented. It will enable the development of a partnership between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus through the creation of industrial complexes, the expansion and modernization of industrial enterprises, the exchange of scientific and technological information, technical experts and scientific research equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u15	promoting the development of infrastructure projects and other forms of cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u16	Vadim Anatolyevich, I already thanked you. I've already thanked you. Have a seat, please. The committee will report to the Lithuanian National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u17	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting, the Committee on European Integration considered the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Economic, Scientific, Technical and Industrial Cooperation. In our opinion, the ratification of the agreement will contribute to the development of a partnership between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus in the economic, industrial and technical spheres, creating favourable conditions for the efficient use of natural and human resources, the scientific and technological potential of both countries. The implementation of the said agreement will contribute to the development of bilateral economic relations, the revitalization of the business circles of both countries in order to strengthen economic, industrial and technical cooperation. Increasing the circulation of capital, goods and services between the two states, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The committee is of the view that it is appropriate to ratify the agreement. This is a decision that is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the performance. Names of the national MPs, please. Soročinska Kirilenko, please. Then the Fedun.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u19	I give the word to Taras Cnerwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u20	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! With regard to this law, we have also considered in our parliamentary group. Similarly, he had previously been considered under a preliminary review by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This law, indeed, is needed today by Ukraine, especially for one reason. Cyprus has become a synonym for many of us in the area where colossal funds are being washed away from Ukraine. But in recent times, especially with the efforts of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, from which Cyprus has visited and where certain negotiations have taken place, the efforts of individual political forces in our Parliament have been able to assume that Cyprus is being treated and that normal and adequate relations are being maintained as between the two nations. And in parallel to the fact that an appropriate document will be adopted that will limit the offshore use of Cyprus, we should also enter the second direction of our relationship – the maximum filling of inter-State relations, the maximum filling of both economic and cultural relations and scientific relations. And there are the first valves. There is a great deal of interest in our country from real Cypriot manufacturers, real Cypriot scientists and cultural activists. So in this case, I think by supporting this law, we're taking down a little bit of the problem that will arise between our nations when we finally settle our customs and financial relations. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u22	National Deputy Fedun, faction of the Party of the Regions. Ivan Popescu, please. John the Rabbit will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u23	It's a faction of regions. Fellow dignitaries, since we have little time and very many questions. Since the agreement will promote cooperation on mutually beneficial principles that are of mutual interest to Ukraine and the Republic of Crimea, it will be able to have a significant positive impact on the economy of both of our nations, which in the context of the global crisis is extremely relevant, the Party of Regions will speak in favour and ask for and support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u24	John the hare hands over the right to speak to Oleg Laishka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u25	Thank you. It is quite obvious that the Agreement on Economic, Scientific and Industrial Cooperation between Ukraine and Cyprus needs to be ratified, because this cooperation is needed, both with Cyprus and with other countries. But the most important document to be considered here is the denunciation of the Agreement between Ukraine and Cyprus on the avoidance of mutual taxation. This agreement allows billions of dollars to be withdrawn from Ukraine. As a result of the operation of this agreement, millions of Ukrainian citizens are left without means of instigation as a result of the withdrawal from Ukraine of billions of capital. The government has found an opportunity to enter into this agreement with the Council. Why will the government not enter into a denouncing agreement to withdraw funds from Ukraine? You, government officials, tell children about war every day, about the neighborhood, about the disabled, about the veterans, about the orphans, about the world that you don't have money in your budget. So why don't you take out the holes that allow billions of dollars of this money from Ukraine? You tell them you're retiring, the following year the Chernobyls and the disabled will have only 2,000 bracelets per month of retirement. You are introducing a bill that deprives mothers who give birth to children of their ability to receive money for the birth of a child. You're in the middle of an order that, when a single mother has a TV or a refrigerator or a bicycle, you're denying that family the ability to get help. You're telling me you don't have any money. And when you get billions of dollars out of Ukraine without taxes, then you make like investments in Cyprus, and you don't tax again, so you're a government, now a government, you're robbing Ukrainian citizens, you're robbing Ukrainian society, you're depriving millions of Ukrainian citizens of proper protection and support. And that's why I'm calling on the government. Now close off the offshore holes and pay off the billions that you steal from the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is now under discussion. I am voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Economic, Scientific and Industrial Cooperation. [[Registration number 0236]] Please vote. [[11:00:19]] For 269 Decision taken. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access is being announced for consideration. [[0239]] If there is no objection, we can consider it. You don't? None. It is, isn't it? I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote, 0239. [[11:01:03]] For 227 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine Rodovko Volodymir Mihajlovich. The correspondent is the national deputy of Litvinov. Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u27	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, on the basis of the order of the Cabinet of Ministers 1214 of 30 November of this year, the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access is submitted for your consideration. The Agreement was signed in Kiev on July 4, and it envisions mutual protection of information that is being exchanged in a broad format, namely in the field of external relations, science and technology, economics, defence, state security and law enforcement. The project has implemented all the intended conciliation procedures. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u28	Thank you. Please. the position of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u29	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! The Committee on European Integration at its meeting discussed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. In our view, the Agreement is fully in line with Ukraine's legislation and international practice on the protection of information with limited access. The rules of communication laid down in the agreement provide for the provision of adequate State control over the compliance of the co-operation entities involved in State secrecy with the requirements of national laws of the parties in the exchange of information with restricted access. Thus, the ratification of the agreement will allow the creation of a legal framework for the exchange of classified information between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus and will contribute to enhancing the effectiveness of bilateral cooperation. The Committee is of the view that it is appropriate to ratify the said agreement, which is in line with the decision of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u30	Yes, dear colleagues who insist on discussing the matter, please sign in. Valerius Kamchatny, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u31	Please give the floor to your colleague Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u32	Please, it's Chernobyl's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u33	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! With regard to this ratification law, the position of our parliamentary group Reforms for the Future and the position of the Committee in foreign affairs is the same. This is, I want to emphasize, first of all, this is a standard bill, a standard agreement that we have not for the first time in this Supreme Council in all other countries. Everywhere the interests of the State of Ukraine are, I reiterate, the states of Ukraine, not some particular dirty business, must be made everywhere, because inter-State documents, inter-State agreements must be properly protected. Secondly, it has to be determined to whom an institution in Cyprus has to provide information in Ukraine, whether this structure in Ukraine meets those standards to get that information, and vice versa. Now the second point, I think, is to make some emphasis. That's the fact that it's about state information, international information, information about government and other structures, not private business information. The confidential information of the private business, including those offshore companies and thus not subject to the protection of the law, is not subject to the protection of the agreement. So in this case, no political warnings from anyone, I think, about supporting such an agreement and voting for this ratification law can be. So I ask everyone to support this ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u35	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Any ratifications with cyprom are supposed to call some associations. And these associations are all about, so far, all the money going to Ukraine is the money that's coming out of Ukraine. In addition, they are tax-free. And it's continuing this output, this cost, including Cyprus. Because of this, without settling this position, without changing the position of the government, which at first responded to my petitions that they would support. That was the position of the President. Now they want to protect information completely secret, secret, and so on, including the bribery of our people, because it just can't be billions of dollars. The interests of the State of Ukraine must be protected, including the separation of power from business. Tell me, please, that the oligarchs have concentrated their capabilities there, why should it hide? On the contrary, it must be distributed. Or energy security. We are now at the threshold of what our gas transport system is giving out. We're getting it now. And the Prime Minister, who will be shown from this country, which is in the East. And guess who these names are? One on M, the other on H. And that's what we're given under a good reason. That is why I will not vote in favour of this decree. Obviously, I have to accept the same as the entire opposition today to boycott a meeting that is not currently being considered in the right plane, after what happened to Julia Timoshenko yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u36	Grivkowski. He's refusing. Fedun. Popsicle, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u37	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The Regional Party supports the Committee's conclusions and will vote in favour of ratification. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes a positive decision. The main scientific and expert office supports the ratification of the agreement. I am voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. [[Registration number 0239]] Please vote. [[11:08:45]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to second-reading issues. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Transactions in Taxation in External Economic Relations is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] The rapporteur is Mr. Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, head of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy has been working on a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On Transactions in Taxation in External Economic Relations", submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to improve the order of transactions with donor raw materials in external economic activities and to ensure that businesses operate in this area through changes to the law. The first reading of the bill was adopted on September 8, 2011. In preparing the bill, seven suggestions came to the second reading. In addition to one, all offers are included. The bill is designed with the comments of the General Legal Authority. The committee supported the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On Transactions in Taxation in External Economic Relations", submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, registration number 8715, and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on second reading and as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, no objection? Then I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Taxation Transactions in External Economic Relations. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] Registration number 8715. Please vote. [[11:10:50]] For 268. The law is passed, thank you. Dear National MPs, the draft Law amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Off-Balance Transactions in External Economic Relations is under review. [[on the procedure for drawing up authorised documents]] Registration number 8716. The reporter is once again Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u41	The Committee on Economic Policy has been working on a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law "On Transactions in Taxation in External Economic Relations", submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, registration number 8716. The purpose of the bill is to bring legislation in line with the requirements of Ukraine's legislation on a liberal system in the field of economic activity, which will facilitate the optimisation of the permit procedure in the area of export outside the customs territory of Ukraine as a source of valuable metals and precious stones, their waste and junk. The first reading of the bill was adopted on September 8, 2011. In preparing the bill for second reading, proposals were made by Ukrainian national deputies. Two proposals are rejected, one is partially taken into account, the other is not fully accounted for. The bill is based on the observations of the General Legal Authority. The committee supported the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Transboundary Trade in Foreign Economic Relations, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and I recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a second reading and as a whole as a law. [[Registration number 8715]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, no objection? The proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Act "On transaction with donor raw materials in external economic relations" shall be put to the vote. [[on the procedure for drawing up authorised documents]] Registration number 8716. Please vote. [[11:13:05]] For 266 The decision has been taken, or the law has been passed. A draft law on the characteristics of nuclear fuel purchases is being announced for consideration. [[8709]] Romanuk Mikola Prokopovich, please. The amendment here is a lot, but they're all accounted for, so we have every chance of putting this law to a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u43	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to introduce you to the committee's second reading of the comparative table of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Procurement of Nuclear Fuels presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8709]] The purpose of the bill is to develop a mechanism, to implement the Ukrainian Nuclear Fuel Procurement Act, to regulate a separate law. The text adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine included only 18 suggestions, 17 of which were included in the first reading. The vast majority of proposals made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 8 July 2011 changed to part 4 of article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement, under which the characteristics of nuclear fuel purchases for nuclear reactors were replaced by the specificities of the purchase of non-radiated fuel elements for nuclear reactors. This, in particular, led to the need for changes in the name of the draft law, other provisions of the bill, which are reflected in the comparative table. The main legal authority called for a comparative table without any notice. The committee proposes the text of the amended draft Law on the Specificities of Procurement of Nuclear Fuels to be adopted on second reading and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, we need to vote on the first amendment, because this amendment has changed the name of the law and then we will vote on the law as a whole. Do you understand the offer? So I'm voting on the first amendment to the name of the law. The name is: "On the specificities of the execution, he purchased irradiated fuel elements for nuclear reactors." [[the two of spades]] Please vote. [[11:15:33]] For 264 A decision has been made. I'm voting on the second reading proposal and, as a whole, as a bill, the draft law on the specificities of making purchases of irradiated fuel elements for nuclear reactors, please vote. [[8709]] [[11:16:04]] For 268. The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Law on Space Activities of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on improving national regulation and governance]] [[Registration number 9036]] The reporter is Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u45	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The committee has worked very closely on the draft for second reading and proposes that the session halls support it in second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the Chief Legal Authority has no comment on the bill. So the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the Law amending the Law on Space Activities in Ukraine is put to the vote. [[on improving national regulation and governance]] [[Registration number 9036]] Please vote. [[11:17:11]] For 268. The law is passed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the reconfiguration of means of transport]] [[8359]] Mikhailo Ivanovich Mironenko, head of the Committee on Transport and Communications
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! On November 2, the Transport and Liaison Committee considered proposals for Bill 8359. Four suggestions came in. They're all accounted for. And the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act is put to the vote. [[on the reconfiguration of means of transport]] [[8359]] Please vote. [[11:18:26]] For 270. The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on improving legal regulation]] Reporter: Mikola Fedorovich Trajduk, head of the Subcommittee on State Building and Local Self-Government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u49	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! At its meeting on November 2, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government considered proposals from the legislators of the legislative initiative to the project. In all, there were three proposals, two of which were taken into account, one rejected. In general, after discussion, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government to be adopted in a second reading and in general. [[on regulatory acts]] And here, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is needed, as the name changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u50	So let's do it now, fellow respecters, because this is about clarifying the name of the law, we have to vote. It is proposed that the law be called: "To amend the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine" (for regulatory acts). Add "regulatory acts". Yes, I'd like your attention, Your Honor, I'm putting to the vote a motion to confirm the amendment of Sergio Gordijenko. Please vote. [[11:20:08]] For 269 Correction supported for name. I now put to the vote a motion for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[on regulatory acts]] Registration number 8309. Please vote. [[11:20:43]] For 265 The law is passed. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine is under review. [[on the involvement of housing-building cooperatives in mass housing]] Registration number 3545. The reporter is Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Economic Policy Committee of November 1, 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Investment of Housing Co-operatives in Mass Housing, which was introduced by National Deputy Feldman. In all, 14 comments and suggestions came to the second reading. The three proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are not included in the text in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, and the rest are taken into account. The committee decided to support the bill, to adopt it in a second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u52	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the committee's proposal to adopt the bill on second reading and in general. The Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill is to be rejected. Please keep that in mind during the vote. It is up to the vote to propose a second-reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts in Ukraine concerning the inclusion of investments in housing and construction cooperatives in mass housing. [[Registration number 3545]] [[11:22:34]] For the The bill is not supported. Well, what's the second thing again, if there's such low support, what's the second one again, dear fellows? The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great Homeland War 1941-1945 is being announced for consideration. [[on free display of art and documentary films about the war on Victory Day]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Registration number 8292. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my thanks on behalf of the committee of the bill's author, Danilenko Volodymyr Andryovich. As well as all the deputies who made their proposals for consideration in the second reading. It is worth recalling that the bill proposes to complement article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great National War of 1941-1945 with a new form of perpetuation of Victory and the feat of the victorious nation as an organization during May free of charge to show art and documentary films about the Great National War. During the second reading of the bill, 12 proposals and amendments were made to the committee by Ukrainian national deputies. Of these, 3 amendments are designed to determine the period during which such films are to be shown free of charge and 3 amendments to the time when the law takes effect. A committee meeting on November 2, supported the decision to screen such films free of charge not only on Victory Day but also during Month A on taking effect of the law of January 1, 2012. In this regard, other amendments were rejected. A number of comments were made by the Chief Legal Office to the bill, including their opinion that the implementation of measures for free screening of films about the Great Homeland War in cinemas and other institutions of state and municipal property culture during May would require the corresponding costs of state and local budgets, to which it should take effect no later than January 1, 2014. However, I would like to point out that every year the National Budget of Ukraine, under the budget programme "Proceedings to Win the Great National War 41-45", provides for adequate funding for the implementation of the existing provisions of the Act on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great War 1941-1945." Particularly in 2011, 2.5 billion were allocated for this purpose, and 1.5 billion are planned for 2012. Therefore, according to committee members, the implementation of free screening of films about the Great Homeland War can take place under this national budget programme. The committee therefore recommends that the Supreme Council Hall of Meetings support the bill. Once again, my dear colleagues, the problem of cost recovery for this budget programme can be completely solved on the basis of the programme that I have just mentioned. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, the proposal for a second-reading committee is put to the vote as a bill of the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the perpetuation of victory in the Great War of 1941-1945. [[on free display of art and documentary films about the war on Victory Day]] Please vote. [[11:26:43]] For 265 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on mandatory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and funeral expenses for the provision of material security to insured persons in enterprises against which bankruptcy proceedings have been violated is being announced. [[Registration number 8775]] The rapporteur is Jaroslav Suhi, deputy head of the committee. Honorable colleagues, all positive conclusions, can be considered. If there's no objection to anyone? I'm voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and generally as the law of the draft law. [[Registration number 8775]] Please vote. [[11:27:52]] For 267 The decision is taken, the law is passed. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider with you a bill to restore the ability of the debtor or to declare him bankrupt. [[new editor]] At the same time, the committee requests that the bill be postponed in view of the need to reconcile a number of positions with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Is there no objection? Let's put the question on hold. A draft law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u55	I'm sorry, my last position is the State Property Fund, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u56	It's about the State Property Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u57	Yeah, yeah, I get it. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! A very important bill is now being considered, both for the history of Ukrainian privatization, and for the holding fund, and for me personally. And I would very much like to be an MP, despite the fact that not everyone is in the room, but today they finally passed this bill and the President signed it. You know, the holding fund celebrated its 20th anniversary recently. For 12 years, I worked at the Foundation, 5 of which I led. After me was Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. And we all tried to pass this law, but unfortunately we failed. Now there's a real chance to do it. Why am I so sure? Because the Committee on Economic Policy has considered all the amendments to this bill, we have carefully aligned this bill with the next one that I will report to Parliament on the amendments to the Law on the Management of National Property Objects, which deals with the functions of the newly created Agency for the administration of corporate rights. And we agreed on all of the issues between the Ministry of Economics, the Fund of Holding and the Agency on corporate rights management. The project was adopted in the first reading on the basis of November 15, 2011. The project defines the legal status of the organization authorized to operate the holding fund. The Committee reached the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure with 64 proposals from the National Deputies. They're all included in the compare table, 21 of them are rejected, and the rest are counted in whole or in part. In preparing for the second reading, the committee tried best to take into account the observations made by the Commission on Privatization, Scientific and Legal Administration. In addition, the committee agreed to authorize the Fund to administer the assets and corporate rights set out in draft Law 9415, which would be considered as follows. This approach was supported by the Holding Foundation and the Agency for the Management of Property and Corporate Rights of the State. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and in general. The only thing I want to add is an official letter from the executive head of the Axis Committee that we have a technical error. On the last page of the text, page 47, 188, the paragraph on the introduction of Ukrainian legislation in accordance with this law is applied in a part that does not conflict with this law. There is in the left table, and there is no change in the right, although no change has been made to this point. It's just a technical error for her to be fixed in the transcript. I thank you for your attention and ask the MPs to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u58	Let's do it this way. Dear colleagues, article 1 of chapter I. So what do the articles say?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u59	What article? Wait, is it an amendment or an article? Volodymyr Mikhailovich, 1 amendment is mine to introduce technical and legal corrections to the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u60	There's a question about that. No, no. Dear colleagues, we are usually one minute away when such comprehensive and complex bills are adopted, we are entrusting the legal administration with the committee in preparation for signing to undertake technical legal work. But this is done in the end, so we have no reason to preface this in the text. So let me give it to you, because it's considered by the committee, and I'm going to put it to a vote to support it. You're obviously not going to support her. But when we pass the entire law, this position will be fixed in the final vote. Do you understand the position? I'll put one amendment to the vote. Please be sure. [[11:33:52]] For-30 Correction not supported. Next. Yes, microphone, please, Mikhail Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u61	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask for confirmation for the final legitimization of the session hall amendment number 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u62	Yes, please, Eugene Marmazov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u63	Thank you. Well, given that it is clear that the Party of the Regions will now give up parliamentary control over privatization. I therefore wish to state the position of the Special Monitoring Commission on this issue. Well, there was an attempt to get rid of parliamentary control, and Kuchma tried to do so back in 1999. The Constitutional Court did not support it. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court on this issue. It is not possible to concentrate both privatization and control in one person. Even more so, our commission is faced with examples of violations of the Privatization Act. In this room we've informed the Orion factory, Alexander's, the Nicolaus Pipe Plant, and so on, and so on and so forth. Therefore, by removing parliamentary control, we are essentially embarking on privatization. And you know that privatization is about to go. The President set out to complete privatization in 2014. He's on the show now. I don't know what to do and what not to do. It's already come to what they're exhibiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, what explains the variance in the proposed project is: "The State Property Fund is accountable to the President of Ukraine." Here it's suggested to complement: "subversive, subversive (through whom) The Supreme Council of Ukraine." I don't see any big problems here. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the other hand, provides a fine assignment. Moreover, the Supreme Council gives its good for the appointment and release from office. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, head of the holding fund. But since there is such a requirement, I will put it to the vote. Amendment 4th, which is considered by the committee, needs confirmation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:36:26]] For-40 Correction not supported. Well, that makes sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u65	I just want an argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u66	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u67	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have been working with the Fund of the State of Ukraine since 1994. All the draft laws on the holding fund were prepared by me, submitted by the government. Not once has the government passed the law so that there is no such standard. This is the first time the government has decided that the Supreme Council has no authority over the control and reporting of the holding fund. In addition, all privatization laws have a privatization control commission, where these functions are clearly defined. The other one. Each year, the head of the Maintenance Fund should report to the Supreme Council on the implementation of the State Privatisation Program, in accordance with current legislation, which, by the way, is duplicating the new law that the Cabinet of Ministers has passed. I don't know what the argument is is that this rule -- sub-control, accountability to the Supreme Council -- should be missing in the text. I just don't see any argument for that. And I say again: in no text of the law that was passed by all governments has this rule ever been deleted, it has always been, in 1998, defined by the Constitutional Court as constitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the 5th amendment. Please make a decision. But what I'm trying to say is, I remember two years ago, two years ago, talking about this on the sidelines. Well, come on, in 10 years we'll talk again. Let's write for the country, not the moment. I'm voting on the 5th amendment. Please vote. [[11:38:35]] Z-70. Correction not accepted. Microphone, please Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u69	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Please place amendment number six on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u70	I'll ask for confirmation, but if it's not counted again, then it's deleted by the text below. What are we, or are we going to vote? It is further deleted by text: that the Supreme Council – beyond the text – exists for a branch just to sanctify what they say and then let us remove everything – and we will not torture each other! [[I'm talking about the transcript.]] Do we have a deal? That's it. I'm voting on the 6th amendment. [[11:39:32]] For-38 Correction not supported. Chechtov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, request confirmation of amendment number 9 of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u72	Please put to the vote Amendment 9a. Such an approach should delay consideration. [[11:40:05]] For-30 Correction not accepted. Microphone, please Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, request for confirmation of Amendment 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u74	Marmazov, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u76	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Well, that's already been done, Vladimir Mikhailovich, marazm. This is where the proposal was made to guide the actions of the Supreme Council. I explain that acts are not just laws, they are regulations. After all, we take orders by consenting to the head of the Fund, to be appointed, to be released. We make decisions on other issues that need to be guided. So it's suggested that we throw this rule out, well, it's a nightmare at all. Is it someone who thinks about it or doesn't think about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u77	Can I have a thought? Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, think about what he's proposing to vote on Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov. It is written that the holding fund is governed by the laws of Ukraine, the acts of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers. Carmazin suggests, "and the Supreme Council of Ukraine." How else can it be? Well, how can it not be governed by the laws of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u78	I'm voting on the 10th amendment. [[11:41:48]] For 266 Correction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u79	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Request for confirmation of Amendment 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u80	11 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[11:42:19.]] For-13. It's not working. Please, Chechtov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Request for confirmation of Amendment 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u82	It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u83	It's the same thing, I'll put it to a vote. Let's, in the legislative sense, define what commission is?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u84	Eugene Vasilovich will make an argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u85	Take down the vote. Let's, in the legislative direction, define what an assignment is. Let's not go too far. That's ridiculous. What is commission? Let's write it down, and then we're going to put these standards. Please, Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u86	Thank you. What exactly is the commission? Under the Constitution, the President of Ukraine issued a decree and a decree. There is no such commission. What is this, it is not clear, what is this assignment, where it is highlighted? He didn't, actually, it's made up, it's gone too far, they've already tried so hard, they've outdone themselves, they've come up with the hells of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u87	Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u88	Why did we consider this amendment? It says here that the State Property Fund is managed by the President and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Release the act in the form defined in the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers and the fund will execute it. What if the President and Prime Minister's orders contradict each other, what do they do to the fund? So we've deliberately supported these amendments because there can't be orders beyond the acts of the relevant authorities, but they're legally bound by this commission, and we can take criminal responsibility, and we have an example already. So I would like to support the amendment of Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u89	The vote is amended by the 12th. [[11:44:41]] For-40 No correction supported. Chechtov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u90	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, request for confirmation of amendment number 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u91	Amendment 13 is being voted. [[11:45:08]] For-37 No correction supported. 14th. I'm betting on a vote of 14 amendments. [[11:45:35]] For-35 No correction counted. Chechtov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, request for confirmation of Amendment 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u93	Please, Vladimir Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u94	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, when the national MPs propose to make an amendment for confirmation, I ask them to base their proposals, for we do not understand what this national MP is doing when he makes a proposal for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u95	All right, next time we'll do it. Puts to the vote 15 amendments. [[11:46:44]] For-36 Correction not counted. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Request for confirmation of amendment 19 because it does not correspond to the philosophy of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u97	I'm betting on a vote of 19 amendments. [[11:47:17]] For-30 Correction not accepted. Microphone, please, and argue with your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u98	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Request for confirmation of amendment 23 because it does not correspond to the content of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u99	23 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[11:47:51]] For-29 Correction not supported. Let's move on. Chechtov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Request for confirmation of 25 amendments, since it has already been taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u101	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u102	It says here: included in the text of the draft law, article 5. I don't understand what we need to confirm? What did we consider in article 5, Mikhail Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u103	25 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[11:48:44]] For two. Correction not counted. Microphone, please, and don't turn off the microphone anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u104	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Request for confirmation of Amendment 29 as well as for failure to conform to the spirit of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u105	We're looking for 29 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u106	I'm sorry, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u107	Well, please, the position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u108	Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's be more careful about the amendments that are taken into account. If we don't vote on this amendment now, it's simple. Well, we've taken it into account, she's normal. We wrote "a" or "a" and I don't understand what we can do here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u109	I'll put it to a vote. So I realized that we've already broken the law, so let's get to the bottom of this procedure. I'll bet the vote on 29 amendments. Please. [[11:50:10]] For-26 Correction not supported. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u110	31st. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, requests for 31 amendments to the law because it also does not correspond to the spirit of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u111	31 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[11:50:42]] For-28 It's not working. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u112	36th. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the request to make 36 amendments to Špenov because it is included in the content of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u113	36 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[11:51:15.]] For-21 Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u114	37th. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, asked for confirmation of 37 amendments, for we believe that these paragraphs, which are proposed to be excluded, have remained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u115	Alexander Mikolaiovich, do you have any comments?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u116	Well, I think that, and the committee supports this as a completely normal amendment. But if they want to vote, please, it's not in principle for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u117	37 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[11:52:00]] For 1 Correction not supported. Microphone please, Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u118	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Request for confirmation of Amendment 38. In our view, it corresponds to the philosophy of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u119	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u120	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u121	This amendment corresponds to an article of the law passed by the Cabinet of Ministers and adopted in the first reading. Creates, acts as the founder. And now he's offering, just acting as the founder? Leave it on the first reading, Mikhail Vasilovich? All right, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u122	I'll put 38 amendments to the vote. It's going according to procedure. [[11:52:54]] For two. The amendment is not accepted as a whole. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u123	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Request for confirmation. 43 amendments. In our view, the first reading is most appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u124	Amendment 43, right? Puts to the vote to confirm 43 amendments. [[11:53:30.]] For two. Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u125	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The request to make 44 amendments for confirmation is fundamentally changing the philosophy and content of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u126	44 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[11:54:07]] For 1 Correction not supported. Eugene Marmazov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u127	I'm asking you to confirm the rejection of my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u128	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u129	Have the room vote to confirm the rejection of my amendment, 45th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u130	Correction rejected. So we have to put it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u131	To confirm that it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u132	No, we can't. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u133	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, may I explain my position?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u134	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u135	The point is that in the text of the law, which is given by the Cabinet of Ministers, the phrase is, "The Ukrainian State Property Fund performs other powers defined by the laws of Ukraine and related to the implementation of the tasks entrusted to it by the President of Ukraine." Well, how can this be at all, apart from the laws of Ukraine, what tasks does the President have? We deleted it. Of course, and the Marmazov amendment that the Supreme Council can do, we have also removed. And they left, "The Fund of State Property of Ukraine exercises other powers only defined by law." We have written in the Constitution that privatization takes place solely on the basis of the laws of Ukraine. We didn't support this amendment right now. And then, of course, Marmazov needs to be re-voted now, too. Well, just, well, what can be done by the President, besides the laws of Ukraine? So tell me, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, who, in addition to the laws of Ukraine, can rely on the Fund's task as president of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u136	And we're on confirmation, we're not on. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich, now make a proposal from the committee to put me to the vote because we have differences here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u137	The committee, I argued why, rejected the amendment of Marmazov. Marmazov has the right to insist on confirming his amendment, which he does. Yes, we're voting for confirmation. () [[B in m in s a l in]] I was arguing about what.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u138	I'm voting on Marmazov's amendment. We're voting for the amendment. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Please vote on the 45th amendment. [[11:56:53]] For-28 Correction not supported. What's next? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u139	Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, request for confirmation of 47 amendments, for it also violates the concept, the philosophy of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u140	One minute, dear colleagues, I think it was written here, the first reading was written and the formula contained in the Constitution of Ukraine cannot be extended. No, it's a change of plans. Adam Ivanovich, give us how the Constitution is written.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u141	Vladimir Mikhailovich was offered to make changes, but we did not make them. The right column corresponds to the left. I don't understand what needs to be confirmed. It's perfectly consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u142	Now I'm going to read what's written in the Constitution, and then we're going to stop there. "Acquiescing for the appointment and discharge of the President of Ukraine as head of the State Property Fund." So let's write it the way it says in the Constitution and leave it, that's all. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u143	We leave the first reading. So 47 we remove the amendment and leave the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u144	Vladimir Mikhailovich, Mikhail Vasilovich, did not see that the right column was completely in line with the left. We left it, we didn't change anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u145	"The State Property Fund of Ukraine is headed by a head who, under the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is appointed and dismissed from office as President of Ukraine." What's wrong with you? It's essentially like the Constitution. What do they vote for us? Yes, what are the following adjustments?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u146	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Request for confirmation of Amendment No. 50, as it does not correspond to the content of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u147	In this amendment, MP Jojik explained the details for which the head of the fund could be released. They are defined in part in the Privatization Act. Mikhail Vasilovich denies that he wants confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u148	I'll bet you 50 votes. [[11:59:55]] For the five of us. Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u149	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Request for confirmation of 54 amendments, since it does not correspond to the substance of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u150	Yes, please, Eugene Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u151	Thank you. So I suggest we add that we follow the actions of the Supreme Council. Well, it is clear to all that the acts are orders of the Supreme Council: they are according to the report of the implementation of the State Privatization Programme; they are for the evaluation of the activities of the Head of the Fund; they are, on the recommendation of Parliament, therefore, for the hearing to be held, this also means that the involvement of the Court of Auditors should also be decided. These are all acts, and it must also be by acts of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u152	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, may I speak with the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u153	I don't see one minute, but on the first reading, take the text and put it in the right column, and there's all that's left in the first reading. What's there to vote for? But I understand we're down. I'm talking about Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov's offer. Well, one minute. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov insists on voting, but there is, in fact, one word in a word as it was at the first reading. Please, Mikhail Chechtev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u154	Vladimir Mikhailovich, we are spending more time discussing. Put it on the vote and everything, and let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u155	So I put it to a vote, you break the law. You read it! I read to you that it was written, "The Fund of State Property of Ukraine within its powers on the basis and implementation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, the acts of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine issue orders to sign the Head of the Fund of State Property of Ukraine." We will now put this proposal to the vote. She's going to vote, and we're going to ruin the article. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, no? You look at the right column, then you'll teach me. What, no? I'll put you to the vote for confirmation. Please identify. Now you're going to get the result. [[12:02:19]] For-28 [[B in m in s a l in]] What's first reading? What is the first reading? I read to you that the first reading was left, and you're asking for confirmation. We put it on the stand and took it down. I'm telling you again. We're voting no correction, we're voting the right column so you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u156	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, may I?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u157	I'm telling you again why the amendment is materialized. The amendment is materialized in the right column, and we put it to the vote. You're the one who made the vote, we're counting the article!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u158	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Let's be clear about the transcript. Why did I ask Mikhail Vasilovich? That the amendments are partially taken into account. The text that matches in the left and right columns, I asked you not to vote in order to avoid misunderstandings. Now it's coming out like Vladimir Mikhailovich said. I believe that there is still an unvoted amendment, and the text of the left column remains. And that's exactly what we need to confirm in the transcript. Just like that! Otherwise we'll have no law, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u159	To get out of this colossal, I beg you, let's do it this way. That we should vote on such a position. I'm going to read it over and over again. This is article 9, paragraph 1: "The Fund of State Property of Ukraine within its powers on the basis and implementation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, the acts of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine issue orders to sign the Head of the State Property Fund." That's what was in the left column. And the committee asked him to leave it on the left column on the right, not to change anything. You insisted on voting, and we may have a conflict. We need to confirm that we're leaving the right column. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u160	Vladimir Mihajlovich, this is 54 amendments. It is proposed to add the words "the Supreme Council of Ukraine". We suggest not adding — and leaving behind what is written on first reading. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u161	You show me where this committee counted, show me. [[I'll get to Russian.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u162	Well, we buried it, we dropped the amendment at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u163	Mikhail Vasilovich, dear! We always define the right column. There's no word in the right column for "the Supreme Council of Ukraine." That's why I asked you not to vote, because all of this is reflected in the results of the first reading. Well, pay attention, look closely! To take down this colossal, honourable colleagues, we have agreed with you that we are leaving the right column on the results of our first reading. Next, the following repairs. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u164	55 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u165	Please, Eugene Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u166	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, ask for confirmation of amendment 55. Eugene Vasilovich, do you have anything to do with this? I'll put 55 amendments to the vote to confirm it. [[12:05:49]] For-25 Correction not counted. 56th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u167	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, request confirmation of 56 amendments. We don't think we should delete part eight of article nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u168	An amendment shall be put to the vote. Take down the vote. Eugene Marmazov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u169	Well, I'm sure the colleague is speaking, and he hasn't even read it. It says, "The Fund's orders can be cancelled by the Cabinet of Ministers." I mean, we think we need to put it down. The Fund can release its own order. Why does the Cabinet of Ministers have to make a commitment to release something? Why? He issued an order, a fund, he controls, he has to cancel. Now it is only necessary for the Cabinet of Ministers to abolish the punishments of the fund. Why is this done?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u170	Amendment 56 shall be put to the vote. [[12:07:02]] For-29 Correction not supported. Carmazine's microphone. Oh, Chechchev's microphone, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, ask for confirmation of Amendment 57. Because it fundamentally changes the philosophy of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u172	It's the 57th vote. Take down the vote. Eugene Marmazov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u173	Vladimir Mihajlovich, well, it says here that the fund, the fund, must, well, cooperate with the auxiliary bodies. What is it? What is "assistant organs"? I made a suggestion: Put it down, it's not clear what. Let Chechetov explain what "assistant organs" is? And who are the helpers?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u174	The vote shall be set at 57 amendments. [[12:08:17]] For-28 Not supported. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u175	60 amendment. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, request confirmation of amendment number 60.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u176	The vote is amended by 60, which is the same as amendment 57. [[12:08:50]] For-26 Correction not supported. Yes, what are the other adjustments?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u177	61st.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u178	Yeah, 61-a. It's on the 61st vote. [[12:09:16]] For two. Correction not supported. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u179	62nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u180	And we put 62 to the vote. [[12:09:39]] For 1 Correction not counted. Any more notes? One moment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u181	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, once again for the transcript: 188 points, we forgot in his right column.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u182	You already said there's a letter to the committee that the right column should be moved.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u183	Yes, move 188 points. Vladimir Mikhailovich, one word. Although many amendments to the committee are not supported by the majority in the room, I believe that the bill can be adopted in a second reading, it is actually responding to the text given by the Cabinet of Ministers. And it's better to have a law like that than not having one. So I'm still asking you to support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u184	Dear colleagues! Please, Taras Blackwall, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u185	Dear National Deputies! Of course, we can agree with the suggestion made by the reporter that a bad law is better than no law, but it is possible that it is not only one position, but also a position that is better than a bad one, but at least a constitutional one. Several provisions in this law, particularly those relating to the positions of rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as some other nuances, directly conflict with the Constitution after those amendments were excluded. So I would suggest, maybe by adopting it in the second reading, putting it to the third reading and assigning the committee to the third reading to agree with the Constitution of Ukraine. The law is partially balanced, the second is not constitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u186	Thank you. Head of the State Property Fund, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u187	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! I am grateful to the representatives who have carried out a serious job, which is very large. I just wanted to say a few words. The head of the fund will always have to go through parliament when he is appointed and released, it's inevitable, and it's enshrined in the law, and it's enshrined in the Constitution. The Law on Privatization of State Property stipulates that the Supreme Council is establishing a Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization to monitor the implementation of the State Privatization Programme. I hope that in two weeks, the State Privatization Program, it's now in Parliament, it's passed the committee, it's going to be here, and you'll see. Surely there must be parliamentary control, it helps me and anyone in this position. So there's no desire to make any revolution, but it's very important that the Fund Act be passed by Parliament, that Kabmin pass through and pass through the President, because in 15 years we have from the two presidents the previous ten times the veto on the State Property Fund Act. That's terrible. And that's why we have to go through this so that there's agreement between the government and the President. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u188	Honorable National Deputies, the committee proposes to adopt in the second reading and generally as a law that takes into account the clarification that the reporter spoke of. The Chief Legal Office made their comments, which we discussed and debated here. That's why I'm putting to the vote and your consideration of the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as the bill of the bill of the Ukrainian State Property Fund Act. If you don't support it, then it's going to be the second one again, but now it's going to be the second read and the whole read. [[Registration number 9368]] Please be sure. [[12:13:32]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the administration of public property. At the same time, the General Legal Office found that the text of the bill did not meet the requirements of article 116 of the Rules. Yes, please make it in line with the Law of the Rules. It's being announced. The bill cannot be considered if the violation is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the powers of the Central Electoral Commission]] Upstairs Sergei Petrovich. Please, Garbage.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u189	Honourable National Deputies, commissioned by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 5 December, considered comments and suggestions from the subject of the right of legislative initiative to draft the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to which Ukrainian legislative acts were adopted as a result of the first reading, based on November 18, 2011. [[concerning the powers of the Central Electoral Commission]] I would like to remind you that the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Laws on the State Register of Elections, on the Central Election Commission and to clarify the individual powers of the Central Electoral Commission, in particular with regard to the procurement of goods, works and services for the functioning of the information and telecommunications system of the electoral register, and on the determination of the competence of the head and members of the Central Electoral Commission for the service of the registry manager and its staff. A comparative table for a bill containing 10 amendments and proposals made by two Ukrainian national deputies has been prepared by the Committee for Second Reading. As a result of the consideration of amendments and proposals at the meeting of Committee 6 of them, which are technical and legal in nature, was taken into account. One of the amendments included was the name of the bill, as we are asked to make changes to the laws of Ukraine alone. Four of the amendments and suggestions made by the committee were rejected. The final draft of the bill prepared for Parliament’s consideration was initiated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority without notice. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with section 3, paragraph 3, of article 123 of the Rules, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Central Electoral Commission as a result of the second reading to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee suggests that we accept it as a law in the second reading. There is no chief legal authority to comment on the bill. I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general as a law, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning the powers of the Central Electoral Commission]] Registration number 9410. Please vote. [[12:16:58]] For 261 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we now need to consider the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on the issue of domestic government bonds]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. And the reporter would you like me to prepare for you, Sergey Alexanderovich, on the rostrum, please. [[12:17:39]] For 237 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Finance Minister Sergey Rybak. The Coroner is the head of the Vitaly Homutinnik Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill is designed to enable the issuance of domestic government debt in a foreign currency. I would like to draw your attention to the worsening of the global macroeconomic situation in the market, in international financial markets as a whole. This has led to a significant increase in lending resources for Ukraine and restrictions on access to international capital markets. In a situation where the exit to the external market is not appropriate in such an unfavourable situation, we consider it necessary to expand the possibility of public domestic borrowing by introducing a new financial instrument in a foreign currency. This rule will enable the introduction of a new financial instrument in the internal market for government securities. The sale of which will be made in a foreign currency that will contribute to a more effective debt policy will reduce the cost of foreign exchange, have a positive impact on the balance of payments, and on the state of Ukraine’s gold reserves. On December 7th, the bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy and was approved to take it as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u192	Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u193	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The changes proposed make it possible to issue domestic government bonds in foreign currency. Today it is only possible to do so in the national currency. That is to issue bonds of domestic government loans. The changes will remove the pressure on the currency market, as dollar resources in the middle of the country are in no way used in the economy because there are no reliable ways to use them. The bill’s instrument will also allow the cost to be substantially costed. Because it's clear that foreign exchange borrowing is much smaller than national currency. In addition, it can be expected that resources involved through an internal bond instrument can be directed directly without conversion to external debt servicing, and so on. The committee considered the bill and, taking into account the circumstances and arguments cited by the authors, that is, the Cabinet of Ministers, proposes the adoption of the bill, 9548, in its first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any objections? Okay. Then sign up if you have any objection. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u195	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You know, there's a perfectly good bill. Ukraine needs him. We fully support the very idea and dilemma underlying it. In Ukraine, of course, it would be wise to be able to issue domestic currency bonds. So today, too much currency is under pillows, under some other facility besides banks. In addition to the positive, however, there are three unaccounted for positions in this bill. She's in charge and she's in first. That's the idea. If we are in the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act today, we have absolute permission to obtain interest or to service these bonds from the state that was received in the currency, at the expense of the currency, there are no such terms and conditions as to the bonds of the internal loan. That's why we think it's premature to adopt this bill as a whole, and it can only be accepted on the first reading. And it is necessary to make it part of article 10 of the Fourteenth Condition for Citizens of Ukraine to receive interest in the currency itself. And the second. This bill doesn't just need to be reconciled with the National Bank, we've talked to representatives and sponsors of the legislative initiative that the National Bank has given its "good" to. However, there is, under article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, a so-called expertise on similar bills, we have not seen it either. So we would like to adopt the bill in the first reading, pay attention to it, and prepare ourselves for the second. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u196	Yes, National Deputy Hanustzak, one minute, the "BUT is the Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u197	Thank you. Gentlemen, there's a huge problem -- we're washing our internal market and replacing it with a foreign currency, it's gradually going. So our currency becomes less stable if we run this. You know, this is an internal loan in the end. I want to remind you of the terms of the Maastricht Treaty of Europe. *** There the volume of foreign debt cannot exceed 3 percent, that is. This is a very serious request that is. If we're going to Europe, at least we should get close to that figure. We already have a foreign currency debt that is almost equal to the monetary debt. So be very careful about this. I don't think we can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I'm putting to the vote the committee's proposal, please note the approval of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[Registration number 9548]] Please vote. [[12:24:20]] For 243 The law is passed. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges is under review. [[on the improvement of the status of members of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine]] Valerius Pisarenko, please. Asked to consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:24:58]] For 230 Decision taken. Please, Valery Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u199	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary colleagues, a bill to improve the status of members of the Supreme Court of Judges of Ukraine, aims to improve the provisions of current legislation that regulate issues related to the implementation of the terms of office of a member of the Supreme Court of Judges of Ukraine. In addition, the project aims to remove legal uncertainty about the reasons and order for the termination of the powers of Ukraine’s Higher Qualifications Commission. The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, which also increases the terms of office of members of the Ukrainian Higher Qualifications Commission from 3 to 6 years. There are no restrictions on the possibility of reappointment as a member of the High Qualifying Commission, as well as the grounds for the termination of the term of office of a member of the High Court and the subject of the decision. The bill also proposes to settle the issue of ensuring that the members of the Supreme Qualification of Judges of Ukraine are dismissed in the event that they are removed from their posts. Let me remind you that the Higher Qualifying Commission in Ukraine is a permanent organ in the system of the judicial system of Ukraine and operates in 11 members. The commission consists of six judges appointed by the Ukrainian judges, two persons appointed by the Assembly of Representatives of Legal Higher Education Institutions and Scientific Institutions, one person appointed by the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, one person appointed by the Supreme Council of Human Rights, one person appointed by the Head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine. The term of office for today is three years from the date of assignment. Dear colleagues, by adopting this bill, we increase the legal guarantees of the work of the members of the Higher Qualifications Commission and increase the independence of judges. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a need to comment on this bill, please sign in. It wouldn't have been better. Names of the national deputies. Jaroslav Suhi, words of support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u201	I propose to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u202	Dear National Deputies, given your unanimity, I am voting on the proposal of the committee, which the author has reported on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges. [[on the improvement of the status of members of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 9514]] Please vote. [[12:27:58]] For 235 The law is passed. Thank you. Yes, distinguished national MPs! We now need to make a number of decisions regarding the holding of out - of - turn local elections. This is very important in view of the fact that the limits are given. So let's put it this way: the committee has prepared everything, I'm going to read the rulings, and you're going to make the decisions. No objections? Introducing your consideration, your esteemed colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the extraordinary elections of the Occhinian Country Head. [[Occidental Rural Council of the Mid-Budd district of Sumsk Region]] [[9505]] Please vote. We're voting on the verdict. [[12:28:55]] For 259. Decision taken. Please, Easy Mike. Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u203	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. I'd like to turn to you, Mr. Head, in exchange for your request. Among the draft decrees on the appointment of out-of-court elections for rural, urban, and village heads, there is no draft Ordinance on the Assignment of Elections for the Cernigian District City Leadership. For over a year, the famous city of Cours in Chernigovishka lives without a city head. For over a year, a corresponding draft of the Order has been registered, which was not supported in this room by the Party of the Regions because of its position. Because a party of regions are afraid to lose the election of the city's mayor. The defeat of the Party of Regions throughout the country will begin with the defeat of Stors, and they will postpone consideration of the matter. On behalf of the community of the city of Stors in Chernigovska, I address the Head of the Supreme Council, to the majority's deputies to vote for the next election of the city's head in the famous city of Cors, not to deprive people of their right to have their head. And let the Party of Regions lose!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask the committee to look into this and prepare the relevant materials for the Supreme Council. And as for what the Party of Regions is afraid of, I will take the courage and say so. I feel like the Party of Regions isn't afraid of anything. You don't have to. So you're hot. Dear National Deputies! Let's move on. About the appointment of the consecutive election of the Basilian village head. [[Basilic Village Council of the Soloonian District of Dnipropetrovsk]] [[Registration number 9505-1]] Please vote. [[12:30:57]] For 265 Decision taken. And the secretariat will tell me that this project is going to decide, by the way, 9505-42, it's going to be the last one. So it's all in place. About the appointment of the Zaduneck village head election. [[Zadonian Village Council of the Kharkiv district of Kharkiv]] [[9505-2]] [[12:31:37]] For 265 Decision taken. Rubanian village head. [[Ruban village council of Nedrigail district of Sumskie district]] [[9505-3]] [[12:32:00]] For 261 Decision taken. An artichoke village head. [[Artuchiv village council of the Romanian district of Suma Region]] [[9505-4]] [[12:32:23]] For 267 Decision taken. Malobun's village head. [[Malobbinov village council of the Romanian district of Suma Region]] [[9505-5]] [[12:32:47]] For 267 Decision taken. Demidiv village head. [[Demodivian Village Council of the Odessa Region]] [[9505-6]] [[12:33:09]] For 261 Decision taken. A country head of Sinai. [[Sinovirian Rural Council of the Zakarpat district of Mižgir]] [[9505-7]] [[12:33:32]] For 267 Decision taken. Radvani village head. [[Soviet Rural Council of the Kamyanecki district of Cherkas region]] [[9505-8]] [[12:33:55]] For 261 Decision taken. Sherbanian village head. [[Sterbanov Rural Council of the Woznesen District of Mikolaiiv Region]] [[9505-9]] [[12:34:17]] For 266 Decision taken. A besieged village head. [[Beugliv village council of the Chernigiv district of Nizhin]] [[9505-10]] [[12:34:39]] For 265 Decision taken. Cherganov village head. [[Cerganov village council of the region of Ivano-Frankiv]] [[9505-11]] Please vote. [[12:35:03]] For 268. Decision taken. Talalai village head. [[Talalai Village Council of the Chernigiv Region]] [[9505-12]] Please vote. [[12:35:25]] For 268. Decision taken. Long - distance rural head. [[The Long Country Council of the Ternopil district of Ternopil district]] [[9505-13]] Please vote. [[12:35:47.]] For 265 Decision taken. Storczov village head. [[Storczów Rural Council of the Nomikolay region of Zaporozhye Region]] [[9505-14]] Please vote. [[12:36:09]] For 267 Decision taken. Letogostian village head, please vote. [[Letogostian Rural Council of the Rozisht district of Volinsk Region]] [[9506-15]] [[12:36:33]] For 267 Decision taken. The singing head of the country, please vote. [[Przeszowska Rural Council of the Rozischen district of Volinsk Region]] [[9505-16]] [[12:36:55]] For 264 Decision taken. Jaskovec village head. [[Jaskovets village council of the district of Deražnjan district of Hmelnicki district]] [[9505-17]] Please vote. [[12:37:19]] For 271 Decision taken. It's a village head. [[Ustivice Rural Council of the Velikobogacha district of Poltava region]] [[9505-18]] Please vote. [[12:37:42]] For 269 Decision taken. Logwine village head. [[Logwine Rural Council of the Kyiv Region]] [[9505-19]] [[12:38:03]] For 267 Decision taken. Orininian village head. [[Orinin village council of Kamenets-Podil district of Hmeljna region]] [[9505-20]] Please vote. [[12:38:26]] For 267 Decision taken. Alexander’s village head. [[Alexandrov village council of the region of Alexandria, Donetsk]] [[9505-21]] Please vote. [[12:38:49]] For 264 Decision taken. Kalanchik village head of Kalanchik village council of Kalanchik district of Herson region. [[9505-22]] Please vote. [[12:39:11]] For 269 Decision taken. Ohtyr city head Ohtyr city council of Sumi district. [[9505-23]] Please be sure. [[12:39:33]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Burdusk village head Burdusk village council of the Khelmenack district of Cherniewec region. [[9505-24]] Please vote. [[12:39:57]] For 269 Decision taken. Chakalovsk village head Čkalovsk village council of the Wesseliv district of Zaporzi district. [[9505-25]] Please vote. [[12:40:21]] For 268. Decision taken. Babakovsky village head Babakow village council of the Dnipropetrov region of the Kingdom. [[9505-26]] Please vote. [[12:40:45.]] For 268. Decision taken. Lukav village head Lukav village council of the Sambir district of Lviv. [[9505-27]] Please vote. [[12:41:07]] For 266 Decision taken. An old goddavian village head. [[Old Bogdanov village council of the district of Zaporozhye]] [[9505-28]] [[12:41:30.]] For 268. Decision taken. Mikhailian village head. [[Mikhail Village Council of the Dnipropetrov region]] [[9505-29]] Please vote. [[12:41:51]] For 267 Decision taken. Grosovian village head. [[Grosovska Rural Council of the Old Sambir district of Lviv Region]] [[9505-30]] Please vote. [[12:42:12]] For 270. Decision taken. Siwasov village head. [[Siwaswa Rural Council of the Hersonian Region of Novotroit]] [[9505-31]] Please vote. [[12:42:34]] For 272 Decision taken. A blue - eyed village head. [[Blue Eye Village Council of the Zelotani district of Cherkas region]] [[9505-32]] Please vote. [[12:42:56]] For 263 Decision taken. Mikhlin village head. [[Mihlin Village Council of the Volin region of Gorokhiv]] [[9505-33]] [[12:43:18]] For 267 Decision taken. Kirov village head. [[Kirov village council of the Kointernov district of Odessa]] [[9505-34]] [[12:43:40]] For 267 Decision taken. The country’s rural head. [[The Provincial Council of the Radehiv District of Lviv]] [[9505-35]] [[12:44:01]] For 271 Decision taken. A Cosinian village head. [[Kozin village council of the Kyiv region of Mironovo]] [[9505-36]] [[12:44:22]] For 266 Decision taken. Mirnen village head. [[Mirnen village council of Gorokhov district of Volin region]] [[9505-37]] [[12:44:45]] For 269 Decision taken. The New Alexanderian head of the country. [[New Alexandrian Rural Council of Ananiyiv district of Odessa]] [[9505-38]] Please vote. [[12:45:08]] For 268. Decision taken. Isaiah’s village head. [[Isaiah’s Rural Council of the Odessa region of Mikolai]] [[9505-39]] Please vote. [[12:45:31]] For 266 Decision taken. Saratian village head. [[Saratsk Village Council of the Odessa region of Saratsk]] [[9505-40]] [[12:45:52]] For 267 Decision taken. A city head of Opuchiv. [[Obukhiv City Council of the Kyiv Region]] [[9505-41]] [[12:46:13]] For 264 Decision taken. And personally, on Oleg Lazka's request. The city's head. [[Church City Council of the district of Chernigiv]] [[9505-52]] Identify yourself. [[12:46:40]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Thank you. I ask the committee to consider this question, to prepare an additional argument, so that the Supreme Council will consider it at the next meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to "Re-Reading." A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the defence mechanism is being announced for consideration. [[6644-Thank you]] The reporter is Gregory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik. The Committee requests that the matter be examined in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:47:39]] For 237 Decision taken. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u205	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! By decision of the Supreme Council, the bill was sent for rereading. During the process, full consideration was given to the observations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The amended draft law provides for the improvement of the provisions of the Ukrainian Land Code and the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act, and the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Since the existing regulation does not allow for the alienation of immovable military property, along with the land in which they are located, which poses serious obstacles to retired military personnel and makes it impossible for the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine for the Ministry of Defence to be properly carried out. In view of the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the use of defence land, which has been developed by the Committee, to be adopted as a whole as a legal basis. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings about the committee's proposal? Nobody? I can't see. Yes, please sign in. Put the names of the national deputies on the board. Names, please. Vladimir Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u207	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We discussed this bill quite vividly at an expert board meeting. You know, there was a double attitude to this law, and there are representatives of the MP faction of Reforms for the Future. Well, we will certainly support the findings of the scientific expert board that the text in which this law was introduced to the first reading of the session hall is contrary to the basic law of Ukraine, i.e. the constitution of Ukraine by two articles, and is in fact contrary to the Ukrainian Code of Land. We held consultations in preparation for this bill, and we insist on the following issue. First. It is not possible to adopt this bill as a whole today in the hall, and it needs to be amended. The other one. No one is able, including the Constitution, to separate the territorial communities from the right to change the target or to alienate the land in their territories. Third. In order to avoid these remarks in the further adoption of this bill as a whole, we insist on a rather scrupulous consideration of it in the second reading and amending it, as if it were actually the political will of the representatives of the Cabinet and the Supreme Council of Ukraine in most cases, only to exercise the right to control the use of military land by the Cabinet of Ministers. But the territorial community itself has not been alienated or separated from this process. That's why we support this bill in the first reading, not in general, before the first changes are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u208	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u209	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro The bill is small in scope, but the bill violates both the Constitution of Ukraine and the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. And the suggestions that are made that this can be settled in the second reading have no basis. The point is that if we make proposals in the second reading to the laws on the legal regime of property in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other laws, this would be a violation of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. Therefore, in view of these circumstances and considering that the Constitution of Ukraine is being violated and the Code of Budgets is being violated, I propose that the bill be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, who else was on the record because I have something on my computer? Secretarial, tell me who else is in there. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, I have learned from the experience of Zaporozhye and the extremely complex problem of providing housing for military personnel, that when we first looked at it, you've made it clear that a land that is not being used by the Ministry of Defence today, if it is used, provides an opportunity to solve the current and future problem of providing families of military and pensioners. Nothing in this law is contrary to the Constitution, nor to any other law. It allows an investor to acquire land and build housing for military personnel on this earth. And I think it's a positive thing that on the re-first reading, we got a clear answer that we didn't have before, so who has the right to make decisions so that there's no suspicion of corruption. This decision should be made only by the state central executive body, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In that case, the first reading of the bill could be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. I will put to the vote a partial motion to the committee, namely to adopt a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the use of defence land. Please vote. [[12:54:13]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there was an offer by the committee to accept it as law, but the objection was with which Vladimir Caplienko spoke. Do you have any objections? Are they still on? And Vladimir Leschchenko denied it. So let's put it this way: I'm going to put to the vote a proposal to have the committee prepare for the second reading by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:55:03]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear National MPs, the draft law is being announced for consideration, it's a second reading again, once again in the first, I apologize, the draft Land Market Act. Yes, dear fellows, let's work it out this way. As to shame, I'll answer. Thus, honourable colleagues, in 29.11.2007, information was published on the creation of the Coalition of Democratic Forces in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation, and under them are 228 signatures on how to build Ukraine. For the purpose of building such a country, laws are required: the land market, the land trade, the land trade, the State Land cadastre, and so forth. So, dear fellows, give me the word "disgusting." Because it's a disgrace to Ukraine, and we're going to look at what's being proposed and what's the content of this bill. So I would ask, calmly, without shame, but remember the story. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! Dear colleagues! So let's talk now about how to make or consider a civilized decision that people need. That's it. That's why. Calm down! I understand that a year ago, people needed it. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's why. Honorary colleagues, rapporteur, head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Kaletnik Grigory Mikolaiovich. In short, it's complete. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute! Under the reduced procedure, we cannot consider the whole law! You don't listen to the end and yell, fellows of honor. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u213	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen, listen to me. Dear colleagues! On December 17, 2011, the results of a review of three draft land market laws, including the Lalashka Committee, registered in the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council adopted Bill 9001-1 as the basis and sent it for re-reading. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, a working group of land-particle owners of large, medium and small agroforms, farmers, scientists, national associations, local self-government bodies were set up by the Committee to finalize the bill. who worked out their proposals, which were discussed in conjunction with the committee and the National Deputies. All the suggestions in the transcript are in the transcripts of the committee meetings. As a result of the discussions by the working group and taking into account the decisions of the Advisory Council on Local Self-Government, the draft law was finalized. Deep discussions, discussions and numerous meetings of Ukrainian National Deputies - members of the Committee, visits to locations in the area for meetings with landowners, owners of assignments, farmers, managers of large and small agricultural agro-forms - have given the opportunity to respond as much as possible, forming a draft Law for the periphery of the land, for the warnings that have been made, and for the proposals that have been made by all categories of Ukrainian society. The committee took into account most of the proposals, and the most important thing was that this bill continues the moratorium on land sales for the year: by 2013. This bill responded to a major warning from the Ukrainian people: the possibility of purchasing Ukrainian land by foreign citizens. Under this bill, only Ukrainian citizens will be able to buy Ukrainian land. Yes, article 3 says that only Ukrainian citizens, territorial communities in the area of local self-government and the state in the person of the State Land Bank, the relevant authorities of the State, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea are the subjects of the agricultural land market. The bill gives special attention to young specialists, farmers, who will be given land under a special tax procedure. What kind of desires do farmers express? The first is to postpone the plans by 2013 by developing another bill. The committee supports such wishes. Cancel the action of the Cabinet of Ministers to increase the land's legal and monetary valuation by 1.72 times. The committee also supported such proposals. Limit the purchase in one hand and the territorial lease. Costs that can be used to buy land to be put into a declaration are also farm incomes, agricultural enterprises, which are also supported by the committee. Most of them express their wishes and warnings to landowners. Six million 900,000 citizens have been asked to protect them from forced sales and forced rentals of their land rations. This is a particularly worrisome issue because large agro-forms and especially agro-holdings have a monopoly on district courts, other law enforcement agencies, especially high-paying legal services, are practically nullifying the possibility and impeding the protection of their rights in the event of default, or in the part of the rent, or in the part of the replacement of the payment provided for in the contracts by various unforeseeable materials and services. Even clearly fraudulent actions regarding the extension of leases without the knowledge of man — its owners also find no support from the courts, law enforcement authorities and even from some places and local authorities. The committee therefore supports such warnings and takes them into account as much as possible in the text of the bill. Most of their citizens offer to sell their pies to the state in the event of the land market. And the committee has today supported an opportunity that meets the requirements of the Constitution that, on behalf of the authorities of the State, the State Land Bank will be involved in these functions, which will be the subject of the earth’s market. As a result of the discussion, the bill imposed restrictions on the property of one person to sell a hundred acres [100 ha] of land. It is also suggested that the total area of agricultural land for agricultural production, which may be leased by one person with a connection, may be established. cannot exceed 6,000 acres [6,000 ha] of agricultural land in one area and no more than five percent of the area’s agricultural land. I'm going to point out that these property restrictions and leases are in one hand supported by experts in the estimates of foreign associations. I'm going to say that large agroholdings do not generally have a positive impact on the socio-economic development of villages, and most of the villages disappear from the map of Ukraine in areas where there is an area of activity of such huge formations. It is also envisaged that land renters will pay one percent of the cost of agricultural production and owners who have not leased such land will pay one percent of the share of the income of the district budget, with the further automatic distribution of rural councils to the socio-economic development of rural areas depending on the number of people living in them. This is the norm we introduced in paragraph 3 of the Final Provisions bill. This will increase local budgets more than tens of times and will cost about 4 billion dollars a year. In addition, the bill is supplemented by new provisions on the functions, modalities and activities of the State Land Bank. In particular, the main objective of the State Land Bank’s activities will be to engage financial resources and to provide loans with a refinancing rate of no more than 5 per cent of the National Bank of Ukraine’s investment in an agro-industry complex to develop agricultural production and to create an effective market regulation mechanism in the field of agricultural land. Is that not what all agricultural agroforming in our Ukraine is waiting for so that we can borrow credits that are issued to farmers in Europe today? The amended bill provides for mandatory registration of persons who carry out commercial agricultural production at the site where the land supply is located so that all taxes are paid there. The "end-of-life" of the completed project is determined that this law will take effect on 1 January 2013, with the exception of provisions relating to the circulation of non-agricultural land. The continuation of the moratorium will allow all necessary measures to be taken to establish a full market since 2013. Moreover, this will allow a wide range of specialists and all Ukrainian citizens to get to know the law perfectly and make appropriate changes if they need it. And the authorities will prepare all the infrastructure they need to carry out the necessary operations. The bill is full of all possible articles and chapters that will be able to fill and delete on second reading. As a result of the draft bill, a majority of committee members decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Land Market Act, which was worked by the Committee, as a basis. [[Registration number 9001-d]] The same conclusion and scientific expertise of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. And I ask you to support this decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the interview. Names of the national MPs, please. Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u215	Dear Gregory Mikolaiovich, I have followed very closely the round tables, the meetings that have been devoted to this issue, which is now the most important or not in 20 years of Ukrainian history. Because you understand, and that's where the APC minister's mouth sounded, and a lot of the experts who expressed concern about the fact that it would actually legitimize everything that's already happened. We're actually legitimizing this process by this law, which has been going on for a long time, the land is scattered, today by the good people, there will be the same latifundists who are present in this room and who are lobbying this bill and will continue to control the land of Ukraine only by turning it into a commodity. And then just like with any property today, when you can resell it in three or four.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u216	I want to tell you immediately that the land was declared a product more than 10 years ago. You know, when we broke it up and declared it a commodity, it's not the subject of today's discussion. That's the first one. The other one. It is the agroholdings who would like us not to adopt this bill and this law today because they have successfully merged more than 5 million acres [5 million ha] of fertile Ukrainian land under current legislation. And let's give them a few more years, and then we won't need any more law at all, so that you don't argue that this bill is the right thing to do. On the contrary, we advocate the interests of landowners who, according to the Constitution, are to manage their land, and we advocate the interests of all small, medium - sized landowners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u217	Anatoly Matvienko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u218	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian platform "The Council". Gregory Mikolaiovich, I wanted to ask you to try to answer three questions. First, to what arrangement do we focus on the prospect of agricultural production, commercially? The other one. Please tell me, what mechanisms do you see in this law that will ensure us against land speculation when this law is put into effect? And the third. Farmers and farmers have asked us not to make promises but to synchronize this law with a number of other laws that really support and give us a perspective on farming and agriculture. We're chasing him right in front of us, and they're just promising. Why don't we put these bills in a package so everyone knows we're doing a good job. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u219	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. I think that of all the concepts that we've been looking at and looking at in this bill, these are medium-sized and farm-farming, medium-sized agro-forming and farm-farming. The individual way and the big agroholdings is how side-by-side it is. It's about speculation. So you know that you and I on the committee have laid down a rule that you don't have a right for 10 years or if you want to resell it, you have to pay 100 percent of the cost, and that's how it's supposed to prevent speculation -- double the pay. As far as farmers' interests are concerned, as you said we only promised, we had a meeting with them yesterday both within the committee and on the street where they were. And we explained to them, and they were happy that their entire supply, and here they are right next to me, all the proposals are taken into account. With the exception of the one I think we will be working with her, it is a desire for all the lands that have been received from them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u220	National MP Danilenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u221	Gregory Mikolaiovich, two specific questions. First. You personally believe that there will be a man in the village who will find a million and buy this land today. [[1 hectare costs 10,000,200 dollars, cost 1 hectare of agricultural land]] That's the first question. And the second. There are farms that are actually made and worked as farmers, but they don't have 6, but let's say, well 9, well 7 thousand hectares that they're renting today. How can we deal with these? The lease agreement, concluded for a time, will continue to be taken away. And the third. As it binds to the Constitution, we have a clear record of "The Earth, the Nadra belong to the Ukrainian people," this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u222	I want to tell you that, first of all, we've given the ideology of this law in that it's based on the lease of land, not on the purchase of land. Moreover, we are trying to preserve all possible methods in the bill so as not to make agricultural production worse because it is food security. Thus, all leases will be saved until they are completed. And how much is a person going to recapture, if he uses authority, he's going to work on a lease. Regarding what you said about farming going beyond, it's a separate language, we have a few options to go forward, register, register and so on. But huge innovations without restrictions, just today all antimonopoly legislation is foreseen. And nowhere in Europe is there such a thing as a creature like us, 100,000 hectares and half a million acres, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u223	Complete the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u224	What other questions? I wanted, if I may, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to explain the direction of activity. But it sounded very active from the hall, and the comment was, "What was the law, the land market bill, not the dereban?" I want to show you that I have in my hands a government bill on the market for land that was implemented by those political forces that Vladimir Mikhajlovich said, under number 2143, registered in the Supreme Council on February 28, 2008, where black in white, article 3 says who can buy Ukrainian land. Citizens, legal persons of Ukraine, the State in the person of the relevant authorities, foreign citizens, stateless persons, foreign legal persons, joint enterprises, established by foreign legal and natural persons, foreign states. This is the quality of the bill of those political powers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u225	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Sit down, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Let's do it this way. From the factions, please sign up for the performance, from the factions. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Lizard, Cappleyenko, Grizzenka. And now the national deputies, 15 minutes, please sign up. Dear colleagues, I'm in the rules. 15 minutes, sign in. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you. Let's move on to the performances. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u226	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! In Ukraine, discrimination against the rural population continues. Destroyed, powerful in Soviet times, colosophies, and raspberries. Local processing, construction, and maintenance have been discontinued. Consumer cooperation has deteriorated. Unemployment among peasants is sometimes down to 100 percent. The absence of work and funds led to the introduction of natural production in the farms. Young people, who have barely stung to their feet, leave their native homes rapidly aging, demolishing, and dying. The abandoned houses are gleaning from the window. More and more rural areas are disappearing from the map of Ukraine. Schools, district hospitals, pharmacies, shops, cultural buildings, clubs, and libraries are closed. Rural children are destined to receive inadequate education. Every day, access to proper medical care is getting worse, and in many cases the only cultural institution is the brewery. They took the radio from the villagers, closed the post office. Bus connections are transformed into exotic luxury. The hard - covered rural roads, built in socialism, have become like strips with obstacles to the tanks. The infamous speculators buy milk, meat, potatoes, vegetables, and fruit into peasants for nothing. But they're sold at the price of shoes and junk food and essential goods. The most expensive bread is in the country. As a result, the retail price of the grain continues to increase, regardless of the gross harvest. The government has contributed to the collapse of the Ukrainian village. The government’s financial support ends up enriching agrarian magnets by sucking the last juices out of the earth and those on it. And turning the land into an item of sale will actually make the rest of the Ukrainian land of batteries. The Communists view such treatment of peasants as unacceptable. The faction of the Company of Ukraine requires all authorities to face back to the cradle of the Ukrainian State. It is necessary to allocate the maximum amount of money for the restoration of the village and agriculture. Create state-owned agricultural enterprises. Allow land and property owners to join cooperatives. To stimulate their development with bank loans below 3-5 percent of the year. Restore the culture of agriculture. Establish a government order for the production of plant and animal production with strong purchase prices. Developing native machinery. And most importantly, it's to create a normal, human condition for rural people to live in. The draft Law on the Land Market suggests that the faction should be rejected, especially since the vast majority of the people of Ukraine are opposed to trade in land, and the authorities are afraid to refer the matter to a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u227	Corporal Vladimir, please. Prepare the Grizzen of Anatolia.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u228	Honorable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, in accordance with article 14 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the earth is the principal national asset under the special protection of the State. The right to ownership of land is guaranteed, and this right is acquired and implemented by citizens, legal persons and the state is excluded in accordance with the law. Today, Ukraine’s land legislation is difficult to call complete and consistent, taking into account the large number of conflicts between individual legislative and regulatory acts. Because of the lack of a weighted, consistent state policy in the area of land relations, there is a decline in the level of food security of the Ukrainian State, where Ukraine loses its position on the world food market, turning from the exporter even agricultural products into an importer. The problem of food security cannot be solved without reforming land relations and creating the right conditions for an agribusiness complex. Thus, structural reforms in agriculture have to: ensure food security for Ukraine; ensure efficient use of land; invest in agriculture; prevent monopolization in agriculture; ensure the proper functioning of rural infrastructure; increase the income of the rural population; and improve its standard of living; and increase the employment of the rural population. What do we see? In the first reading, a bill was introduced, and we were deceived by a large - scale bill and a working group that worked it out. What do we see? Article 18: A narrow rule, according to which the state would have a primary right to ransom any land. Dear colleagues who worked there, please tell me. How did this happen? The deputy faction of Reforms for the Future never under any circumstances supports the thesis: if the land goes to the provisional owners of the state of Ukraine. The second question. A land bank, a land bank, or a land fund, a second institution, is being established today. Please tell him that we don't pay any attention to the way it represents the interests of the state, the state itself, and not the private owners who can get land in accordance with this law. Third. Why is it not clearly stated in "Transitional positions" that this law will be adopted only after the accounting of land is made, when the land cadastre is created and fully filled, and only after that, but not before 1 January 2013 that law will enter into force? That's why the MP's Reform for the Future supports this law in the first reading just to get our representatives to come forward and accept it, to bring to the state the right to a priority right to land. In case that doesn't happen, the MP's "For the Future Reforms" will pick up a moment after which we won't leave the stone on the stone. In this case, we will not allow it to be read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u229	Anatoly Griesenko, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". He will be followed by the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u230	The opposition will not vote in favour of this law. I don't rule out that those "creatures" that count in factions will give their votes, but it's a matter of their responsibility. Why? This law should not be adopted and the land market put into effect. Well, the first question is moral responsibility. It's clear to everyone that if Yanukovic Viktor Fedorovich were to go to the polls and put tens of thousands of boards in a country where instead of "I hear everybody" being "I'm selling land," he wouldn't be President under any circumstances. So that's a lie. What is promised is not done is done what is hidden behind the armpit. The other one. Reforms of this magnitude that are absolutely needed by countries cannot be carried out under any circumstances when there is total mistrust in power. And the lack of confidence in authority is complete in all regions. He who does not see it does not want to see it. Third. Reforms of this scale can only be carried out if they are supported by at least the majority of society. All social services have identified reprisals of this reform. And above all, for reasons of mistrust in power. Even those who want to leave their beliefs and market in the land are repulsed because they realize that there will be no market. There won't even be a market. There will be a number of families on the earth, and these families will be famous. Four. People remember well the privatization of industrial enterprises. Then they were also promised from the high rostrums that all would become capitalists, all would receive shares, and they would live on dividends. Well, well. Got a couple of families. The same will be true of the earth’s market. Fifth. Even if there was trust in power in the country, even if most citizens supported the idea of the land market, even if the whole package had been accepted, the inventory had been cleared, under the current conditions of the world, the land market could definitely not be marketed. This is the only strategic resource left in the country. A resource for decades in advance. When the euro area is moving in front of the eyes, when the United States economy is already hanging in the hair, when literally every day it is printed irresponsibly, literally billions of euros and dollars, not supported by any material resource, it will all come directly or indirectly to the country. Warnings that foreigners will not buy land have already been broken by experts who have found, at least, 10 lazios in this law how to do so. That's why I'm asking you to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u231	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u232	To introduce this affair of the millennium, understanding its consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u233	Thank you. Ivan Alexandrovich, please wait. There are factions here that, unfortunately, fall in, but they have a guaranteed right to speak. So please, Anatoly Kinach of the faction of the Party of the Regions. Anatoly Kinach. Sergey Mikolaiovich, I gave the word to Kinahu. It's one minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u234	Dear National Deputies! The issue of land reform, first of all, our strategic goal is to create transparency, modern land relations, and this is the most important issue. And I would like to ask you very much in the course of the discussion not to engage in or bring into the context of the internal, interpersonal, current situation and political competition. During the period of action of a huge number of moratoriums, we are essentially creating in the state a situation where the moratorium has become a roof for corruption schemes and land abuse. And today, this law is designed to create modern conditions, and its main goal is not to go to a faster market for sales, but, above all, to create conditions for the efficient use of Ukrainian land, especially for those who work on it. So we ask that we stop these, very humiliating and shameful, political speculations, support the law and enable us to form a modern state policy of land relations, based on the interests of Ukraine, our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u235	Thank you. Please, from the faction of the People's Party. One minute, yes. One minute, Sergei Mikolaiovich. You should've written it down. I'm sorry. Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, we have come to the vote on the most important bill in our chamber, and perhaps in the 20th year of the Supreme Council. In 1990 a decision was made on the land market, 21 years ago. 21 years of speculation. Tell me, we don't have latifunds these days? Tell me, in the meantime, did we not have an accident when the land was sold three times? Yes. So today we need to look at what needs to be done to make the problem as small as possible. There is a Constitution that guarantees private property. There are people today who are afraid of losing perspective. We have to consider everything and not make a mistake when we adopt this bill. There was a lot of discussion in the hall, so they sent out the first reading again. There's no unity in the hall today, and we're on the committee. And the faction of the People's Party cannot vote in full for the bill that we are considering today. But we think it's the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u237	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u238	and work on the second reading. Everyone will be able to express their warnings, comments on how they can be taken into account in the preparation and adoption of the bill in the second reading and in the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u239	Thank you. Ivan Hare, please. Yes, we agreed to give the deputies 15 minutes. Please, John the Rabbit, prepare Pritica.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u240	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. What is the new positive feature of this bill? I saw only two standards. First of all, there are no legal entities in the area of land sales. Only the community, the state and the citizens of Ukraine can buy land under this bill. The other one. One person will be able to buy up to 100 acres [100 ha]. Let me remind you that there were 2,000 hundred plus inheritances in the government bill, to infinity. Thank God that the drafters of this bill have had enough reason to listen to the wise counsel of wise men. But this money is not enough to accept the bill. Moreover, in general, this bill is harmful; it is called upon to introduce modern facilities in Ukraine, to clean up the village from the Ukrainians, to drive them off the land that is for all the agricultural peoples, and thus for the Ukrainians is the greatest value and riches. In other words, by this bill, the governing regime in the presence of President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine, the government and the parliamentary majority, wants to end the privatization of agricultural land for the benefit of several oligarchic persons. Therefore, the Ukrainian People’s Party calls on national MPs not to vote in favour of this bill, not to cover themselves with eternal shame, not to make themselves criminals. Here are some examples that illustrate the previous statement. First. Although a citizen may gain only 100 acres [100 ha], at the same time he can rent 6,000 acres [6,000 ha] in one area, five percent in one area, we have dozens of areas, we have hundreds of areas. That means you can rent up to a million hectares or more. So a few families can rent all the national wealth that our citizens can do? To leave our homes and seek happiness in the city is not the right thing to do. The other one. There are no professional requirements in the bill to acquire land. You don't have to live in a village, have an experience in agriculture or education, you just have to have money. Do farmers now have money to buy land, to create farming? They do not even have the money to dress themselves to feed their children. Third. The bill has a chapter on the so-called consolidation of agricultural lands, it's a legal mechanism to drive a farmer off the land today and drive a Ukrainian. Four. There is no mechanism for protecting the owners of pies. You know what deals are today, you can take the land into anyone's hands under these agreements. And the fifth. Agroholdings are not assigned to the village, so what is done in the village is all about consumption, or in other fields. Therefore, the Ukrainian People’s Party believes that the bill is designed to depopulate the village to take the land from the Ukrainians. And we urge you not to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u241	Please, Pritica passes the word to Acid, please. The next one will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u242	Dear colleagues! I am convinced that the land market law is needed because over five million acres [5 million ha] of land has already been adopted in years of operation, but the law has to be very important. In the absence of time, I would like to draw your attention to two points of article 14 of the Law. Paragraph 4 proposes to limit some 6,000 acres [6,000 ha] of land that can be rented by one person. At the same time, in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the previous draft law states that there is no justification for the marginal size of the leased land. Colleagues, 31 years of my conscious life, I worked in the famous "Friends of the Nations" in the Crimea region of the Red Cross. After the first phase of land reform, when almost all major manufacturing was broken down, not only did the Peoples' Friendship stand up, but an effective investor raised itself in two orders. Today, the Friends of the Nations are 7,000 roosters, 16,000 hectares of land leased by one host. With 9 percent of the land in the region, one of the agribusiness "Friends of the Nations" accounts for 39 percent of the local and state budgets. A total of 68 wheat centurions, 105 centurions per hectare of corn, produce 70,000 tons of meat per year, milking 6,000 pounds [6,000 kg] of milk per cow. Employees have a steady salary and a job, and social facilities are provided, including a cultural complex, a sports complex with swimming pools, and housing are being built. So, in my opinion, those who propose to impose restrictions are meant to break up such agroholdings and not care about people, while President Yanukovic demands that we act on the principle of "no harm". Imagine that the law has been enacted, and three new tenants are to be created artificially, to divide the collectives and reorganize the agreements. How is it selective or forced? I suggest no restrictions. The term of the lease of the owner of the rations ends with a determination of who and on what conditions to make new contracts. And for those who do not think about people in the countryside, it is necessary to create such conditions and influences that they have a place to run, rather than break into pieces of those who work effectively. With regard to an article that proposes to limit the ownership of one person to 100 hectares [100 ha], a loving agronomist will tell you that today, at least 2,000 hectares [2,000 ha] of land must be cultivated in order to produce effectively, including technology and maintenance. This is a scientifically sound norm, for if less, it will dramatically increase the cost of the product, and this will be for the buyers. It's estimated that 20 percent of the people's Friends can sell their pies, that's one and a half thousand men, that's 3,000 hectares of land. If the state cannot buy this land, it must help to buy this efficient lease because it is in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u243	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u244	Because if 100 hectares are hired, 100 hectares will be bought and leased to these efficient tenants, and they will profit from it. Please, hear me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u245	Thank you. Vladimir Danilenko, Communist faction. After him, Matthew Valentine. He's giving Danielenka six minutes, please. Get ready, Popescu's ready. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u246	Dear comrades! Vladimir Danilenko, Ukrainian Company faction, Sumščina. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is consistent in its approach to the land market and strongly stands for the position that the land should not be a commodity. This is confirmed by our people, we're holding a nationwide referendum. And almost 99 percent of the people who did the survey answered the questions about selling land -- no, and we totally agree with them. Today I did not get a clear answer that would give the land market to our simple peasant. Today, I will give an example of the district of Lebedin in the district of Sumu, which is close to me in my spirit, by my work. And it has to be said that I don't see any owner in a village who, a peasant living in a village, bought this 100 hectares of land, found this million dollars and became a master of the land. The campaigns that are doing this work in these fields today, they have one task today: to increase their profits. Let's go back a little bit to our story. We carried out the destruction of the earth. We had to decompose property complexes that were owned collectively. I'm not going to find you today and I can't bring you any farms where these property complexes are fully paid. This is going to be just with the land: primary, secondary sales. So, dear friends, here's what I'm trying to say. Our ancestors poured blood on the earth. And now we want one, really, who has green paper in his hands, could trade in our nation's national wealth. The sale of land, I stress, is a death for Ukraine. If we can rebuild a factory or another enterprise, we can let it go, but if we sell the land, we will sell Ukraine. Therefore, the bill is not in the interest of our Ukrainian people. He does not protect the very average landowners. The law, in our view, is designed to privatize state land. But the earth must belong to the State, that is our firm opinion. You can't sell land, it's land, it's our mother, and the mother is never traded. It's also the price of this "affront of the century" that's hundreds of billions of dollars. It's not a market, it's not even a market, it's an affair with the most dangerous consequences. "The sole owner and steward of the land," as the Constitution says, "is the Ukrainian people," this rule is fixed and cannot be changed by other laws. Running a free market for land sales will result in the loss of land and money to Ukrainian villages. If we adopt this law, that's how it's going to be. Taking into account the level of corruption and the absence of a land cadastre, the introduction of the land market is tantamount to suicide. Earth is the last resource left to be owned and used by ordinary people. So the Ukrainian Company and the faction in the Supreme Council will never support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u247	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u248	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, I'm a lawyer, I'm not an agrarian. So I probably don't have to decide what kind of mechanisms should be used in the implementation of the Earth market mechanism. But as a lawyer, I draw the attention of all national deputies to the fact that article 14 of the Constitution guarantees Ukrainian citizens the right of ownership to land. I will remind you that property rights are realized by the right to rule, the right to use, and the right to order. Today, millions of peasants are discriminated against, compared with landowners who have been assigned under construction, gardening that they can manage. And those who own land rations are their owners, have the appropriate acts -- unfortunately, they can't exercise their constitutional right to command their property. That is why the Constitution obliges us to adopt a law that is appropriate in a European, civilized way in the interests of the owners themselves, that is, the peasants, can ensure their constitutional rights. I urge you to adopt this law in the first reading. And work it out to the second so that it meets in all its nuances the requirements that are set before us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u249	The word is Oleg Lazko, the non-factional. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u250	Oleg Lazko. I firmly oppose the adoption of the Land Sales Act. The law currently under consideration in the Supreme Council is a crime against the Ukrainian people, a crime against Ukrainian citizens. Needless to say, the conscience and conscience of those who press this button today are likely to be pushed. Because they have no Ukrainian history in their eyes, they do not remember the millions who died for the Ukrainian land and the millions who shed blood to protect the land. And these perverts, these traitors of the Ukrainian people, these people who don't appreciate the peasant work that didn't get up in the morning and didn't go to bed at night, they want to sell our land at night, they want to sell our land with cancer, they don't know what it's like to feed a pig or a cow or a flying city. So I'm definitely against this law because it doesn't decide the main thing -- it doesn't solve the problem of our peasant's life on this earth. Where are the cheap loans for farmers? I'm asking the government. You're telling me you're going to adopt the law and the mannequin will be puttin' in here. How will it get sleepy when a minimum loan is 30 percent of a year? Farmers don't have the ability to take credit. Where will crops come from when our people cannot sell potatoes, onions, grains, and cucumbers? Because it's potatoes, it's on TV yesterday, it's two pounds of potatoes, they can't sell anywhere. During the winter, 40 percent of the potatoes gathered in Ukraine will rot, and we will again be squeezing with you with Egyptian potatoes and Chinese Greek. I understand that government officials have elite businesses that feed special pigs, drive milk personally, and grow potatoes without chemistry. And the millions of Ukrainians who struggle with Egyptian potatoes and Chinese Greeks, who will think of them?Oh, my God! Obviously, it's not that kind of authority. Where can a peasant sell his potatoes? Where's 10 percent of the rent? So that the grandparents who have worked their whole lives want to rent that land today, and they're taking this land for a penny, they're paying a rotten sex for renting land that chickens don't eat. Therefore, I firmly oppose the adoption of this law and the Radical Party of Oleg Láska also denies the adoption of the law. The land must not be sold, the land must be rented. On the terms of the lease, you have to own it on the ground. The Lord God has given us this land to feed the whole world so that our peasants can earn billions of dollars on their potatoes, cucumbers, tomatoes, and salami. And we're selling our trash, tomorrow, no land, no money, and you're killing people with your politics! It's a shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The minister has the floor. Mikolo Volodymyrovich, please microphone. Then the committee head's closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u252	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, revered Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Of course, it's clear to everyone that the question is questionable, the question is answerable, but we have to look to the future and look to the past. And if the previous 18 years of land reform have been done in such a way that today the village is on the reservation – that is, it is not an effective mechanism. And unfortunately, the legislator in the past predicted that the completion of land reform would be considered completed when the Inventory Act, the National Land Bank, and the Land Market were passed. In my view, of course, it would be logical to write the Law on the Circumstances of Agricultural Lands. Regrettably, today it is out of the mouth of the national deputies who speak that the land will be sold. It is not necessary to impose upon the landowner that he is obliged to sell it. On the contrary, we must speak and give propaganda that the owner of the pow not only is not obliged but must keep it in order for it to be income for the family today, and that it would be an inheritance for his future generation. And we need to make it clear that the completion of land reform is not equal to the sale of land. There is such a coalition that sounds like this today. That's the first one. Secondly, of course, there were people's deputies today, lots of right proposals that would have to be considered for second reading. And representatives of the Reformation for the Future asked today a question, raised the question of the State's overwhelming right to buy land. I am confident that this amendment will be made before the second reading, and it will be supported. State Land Bank. It's stipulated in the Earth Code, and we have to write its functions in such a way that the state doesn't stand outside and then say, "What did we do?" The state must be clearly responsible and regulate the agricultural market. We need to make it clear that the earth is not the kind of product that we're trying to tell us is a glass or something. The earth has limitations, government restrictions, and obligations. And, of course, there are still a number of laws that need to be passed in order to complete land reform: both on agricultural development and on agricultural development, and in general a number of laws that will need to be considered during 2013 until the agricultural land cycle is in place in 2012. And the adoption of the law will allow non-agricultural land to unlock the auctions that we cannot conduct in cities and settlements today in order to build and build cities. So thank you and ask if you can support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u253	Thank you. Yes, please, Gregory Kaletnik, head of the committee, concludes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u254	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to say first of all that the Constitution of Ukraine, article 13, says directly, "On behalf of the Ukrainian people, the rights of the owner are exercised by the authorities of the State and the authorities of local self-government." We're in a bill nowhere in this article, we haven't broken the constitutional requirements. Another thing is, if we have claims to some part of the executive branch, local authorities and so on, that's another question, and it's our concern with you. And we have to build civil society to trust our authority. As for those who were criticized here who were mistransmitted, given the land free to people, and now, as if to buy the state, I would say that all schools were practically, children's nurserys, hospitals, cultural houses and everything else were built in the villages at the expense of the colporteurs, and in the colporteurs they were the cost of our colporteurs. So talking about 6.9 million of our citizens getting the wrong land, we have to forget about it. This is a very small fee for our peasants for their work, and so please let's take this question down at all. Just like the next question. The state rewarded these peasants, with 6.9 million colporteurs, with a prize of 2 acres [3 ha] of land. The Constitution clearly states that everyone has the right to dispose of his property. Why is it so obvious today that we should not be able to arrange and fulfill a constitutional condition? Because we already have more than a million unexploded dead pies. They are those who have failed to inherit without proper inheritance, and they are those who have not been able to resell it and have died. So what are we going to do, wait for all 6.9 million landowners to die and then what are we going to do with this land? So let's do this from the point of view of our people's interests, and we're going to go meet them. I want to thank everyone who's speaking out of this rostrum, because there really is a very, very large land issue. I understand that everyone is protecting a certain part of himself and certain interests. That is why the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Affairs will take into account all your proposals, as well as the proposals that the Minister and the Reforms for the Future have just made, especially with regard to granting priority land purchase rights to the state. I think they'll all find their attention and a positive solution on the committee. Thank you also to those who speak aloud, and once again I remind you of the 2143 bill. I'd even like to print it on the website.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u255	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u256	so that it is accessible for the Ukrainian people to take the names of those who lead the cows with the words they make critical of the current bill, and which bill they wanted to give to the Ukrainian people, and compare what might have been the result so as to reduce the dust a little bit. Thank you for your attention. Thank you all for the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u257	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, the name was not called any, so, dear colleagues, if anyone feels that it is relevant, calm down: it is not applicable. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The law is complicated, the law is worrisome, I'd say. We all have a feeling of concern. And, I think, let's see what the original look of this bill was, and that they've cleaned up in the process of some compromise. And you know what's surprising, and this has to be said frankly, that the criticisms of this law, both inside and outside the country, have actually gone off. Why? And I'll tell you why, first of all, because there's no right in this law for foreigners to buy Ukrainian land. And that's why they began to be very critical, to write us letters and letters, including to the Supreme Council, that this law cannot be considered. Maybe you can't, but I would ask you then to remove these tensions, to support this proposal: to publish all the options officially made by governments. [[One minute!]] Dear colleagues, let us understand that we have a memory that breaks when we lose power. And we should always talk about what law is needed for people, and have some restraint in this regard, not to upset our society. A few moments. Because if the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts this law this year, you realize that it cannot be adopted. That's one thing. The second condition is that this law recommends that the introduction of the law be made effective on January 1, 2013. We're going to have to make separate decisions about the moratorium before we don't finally make a decision so we don't have to, you know, a pause that can be used by people who are agile in this respect. That's the first one. And the second. I would ask that both the committee and the minister agree that, in preparing, perhaps for the second reading, we go out on the title of the law, "On the Round of Lands of Agricultural Assignment," and in parentheses write what we discussed today. Because if you look at the law, it's much wider, and we took it to the market, not even to the market, to the market. These are two suggestions that I would like to ask if there is no objection that we, including commissioning the committee to process and make a general decision immediately. With this in mind, honourable colleagues are voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Land Market Act. Please vote. [[13:55:54]] For 245 Decision taken. The factions. I'm asking you, your honors, your colleagues, we're not at the rally, I hear. The factions. Region Party – 189, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, National Party – 20, non-factional – 13. And the last. This is obviously by today's vote implemented the decisions of the previous coalition of signatures, which include, who screams, "Damn!', his signature 79 stands, of the land market. So calm down. Dear colleagues! We have a draft Law on Change. I said, I'll answer you, and I got a bunch of letters from people that I don't have anywhere to do this land, I have to treat my kids, I want to have the right if I have to. Do it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I have received such a mass of letters, and I have not voted in favour of the law, so calm down, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues! If cunning means smart, so thank you for the compliment. I'm asking you, Your Honor, please calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this is a draft law amending sections 14 and 15 of Section X of the Land Code on land sales. The author is Vladimir Yavorowski. [[9014]] Since there was an insistence on this bill, and we agreed on it on the Conciliation Council, it's about continuing the moratorium, as proposed, during 2013. So I'm going to put this proposal to the vote, and you're going to have to decide. The draft Law amending Sections 14 and 15 of Section X of the Land Code on land sales is put to the vote. [[Registration number 9014]] Please be sure. [[13:58:36]] For-32 The decision is not taken. I ask the committee for the next plenary session on this subject to present a draft law clearly worked to bring this issue to order by 31 January 2012. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine in support of the United Nations Operation in Côte d'Ivoire is under review. [[Registration number 9566]] Request to consider the matter under reduced procedure. Please vote. One faction of Communists voted, and the other factions did not vote. You're not a faction yet, the next call might be a faction. [[13:59:34]] For 231 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Minister of Defence Mikhailo Bronislavovich Ježel. The Coroner is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u258	Dear Sir, distinguished national deputies, in accordance with the appeal of the United Nations Secretariat of 23. 11.11 No.01639 The Ministry of Defence addressed the issue of the participation of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent in support of the United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire. Mutual support between UN missions in Liberia and Côte d’Ivoire has been authorized by UN Security Council Resolution No.1609 of 24 June 2005. The adoption of the proposed bill will enable the implementation of the UN Security Council Resolution, first of all, to involve the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent on a permanent basis for cross-border operations without the relocation of personnel and technology in Côte d’Ivoire. And the second. Temporaryly disengage some of the forces and assets of the peacekeeping contingent into Côte d’Ivoire under the conditions set out in the relevant decisions of the United Nations. The Armed Forces already have sufficient experience in this operation. According to the United Nations Secretariat’s call to ensure parliamentary elections from December 11th to Côte d’Ivoire, two MI-8 helicopters, three MI-24 helicopters, one special car and 60 aircraft personnel are scheduled to be relocked. Involvement of a peacekeeping contingent in an operation in Côte d’Ivoire during the specified period will not require additional financial costs from Ukraine. All costs associated with the temporary relocation and comprehensive provision of aviation activities will be borne by the United Nations. The climate and the health and epidemiological conditions in the task area.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u259	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u260	close to Liberia, all security-related organizational, diagnostic, and technical issues related to the activities of the aviation group in Côte d’Ivoire, decided, allow the task to be accomplished. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u261	Thank you. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, first of all, the conclusion of the committee that held an extraordinary meeting. The committee did not support the President's legislative initiative: for support – 2, for opposition – 7. The arguments were already made when the same issue was decided last time, when our troops were directing, and the fighting helicopters from Liberia to Côte d'Ivoire that were there by October 1st this year. It's enough to use Ukraine as such a "peace taxi," to throw it at any hot spot, not worrying about the conditions that our soldiers are in, about their health, about the risk of their lives. I know another mission is being prepared, in Congo now, to another African country. Of these peacekeeping missions, Ukraine, unfortunately, does not receive any economic gains, does not then benefit us from creating jobs, obtaining markets, and so on. Sadly, our soldiers lose their health, lose their lives, and get injured. Therefore, those who voted against do not consider it possible to send our contingent to Côte d’Ivoire. Once again, the committee's decision is not to support the president's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u263	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the position of Secretary of Defense has been proven, the position of the President and the government. The committee expressed its point of view. So I would ask that we make a balanced responsible decision in the voting process. Puts the vote to the vote. Please, Miroshnichenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u264	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The point is that this bill needs a third point – to become effective. So when I vote, I propose to take into account this amendment: "The law takes effect from the day of publication." It's an important element, procedural. That's why I'm asking you to include it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u265	This is an important moment. But today, this problem needs to be solved today, and it will be published on Tuesday. Is that why I'm saying it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u266	The request, so this is from the moment of acceptance, let's do it this way: from the moment of acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u267	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Act, to approve the decision of the President of Ukraine to send a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine to support the United Nations Operation in Côte d'Ivoire. [[Registration number 9566]] Please vote. [[14:05:46]] For 236 Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider this now: this is a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the enforcement of real estate rights and their burdens on their national registration and the corresponding draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Working Group on the Processing of Legislative Proposals for Inventory of Real Estate Objects. [[Registration number 9545]] [[Registration number 9546]] Dear colleagues, I would like to point out to you that on the Conciliation Council, we have repeatedly discussed this issue with the participation of representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, heads, of course, factions, as well as the heads of the committees that are leading the matter. And we have concluded that we need to adopt amendments to the law in order to delay the entry into force of the Law on State Registering of Real Estate Rights and Their Restrictions in order to make appropriate preparations and to take into account a number of problems that arise, including in relations with local authorities, with self-government authorities. And it is clear that the Law on State Land cadastre should be amended accordingly. And on the basis of such consultations, the committee, together with the government, with the Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, prepared an appropriate project. And there are requests, fellow honourable colleagues: to approve this bill, to make a decision to form a working group, and to assign them to prepare systemic changes that would be practical and not confusing the situation that we have today. So let's, please, let's not start a discussion on this, but we'll make the right decisions. Well, please, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u268	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Everything exactly as Vladimir Mikhailovich said, we should take it and take it immediately, except that we're a bit of a laundromat there. As they say, they were afraid. There's a paragraph in paragraph 2, the last paragraph: the numbers and the words "January 1st 13th" on "year 14" is to be deleted. And delete the paragraph in paragraph 9, where from 2013 to 2014. These two paragraphs of the Earth cadastre have to be deleted, everything else taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u269	So it's not for 2014, it's just for 2013 to leave. No objections? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure the realization of real estate rights and their burdens on their national registration, taking into account the clarifications that Sergey Grigorovich Osika said. [[Registration number 9545]] Please vote. [[14:09:09]] For 266 The law is passed. And, honourable colleagues, the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Working Group on the Processing of Legislative Proposals for Inventory of Real Estate Objects. [[Registration number 9546]] What we're talking about is the commission of the committee to set up a working group and, by 30 March, submit a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on legislative regulation of the conduct of real estate inventory. No objections? I am voting on this motion, namely the adoption of the draft Decree as Decrees, please vote. [[Registration number 9546]] [[14:10:03]] For 262 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the issue of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9532]] And what we're talking about, Your Honor, is let me tell you, because I signed the bill according to the law, on the basis of addressing the heads of the district councils. The current legislation stipulates that they should make decisions within 10 days, but district council sessions are held once a month. Therefore, the request to make an appropriate clarification. And the law contains a rule, if the decision is not taken within a month, the last day of the 30-day term will automatically begin to work. Is that why we're having trouble discussing this, Mikhail Vasilovich? Therefore, requests, honourable colleagues, to adopt the draft Law as a law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the issuance of documents of a permissive nature in the field of agricultural activities]] [[Registration number 3592]] Please vote. [[14:11:33]] For 261 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Law on Administrative Services has been announced for consideration. [[Registration 9435]] The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[14:12:05]] For 231 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri. Correspondent: Petrenko Vadim Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u270	Honourable voters, honourable colleagues, the President of Ukraine, have been introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council for the draft Law on Administrative Services. [[Registration number 9435]] The bill establishes a clear and transparent relationship between administrative authorities and recipients of administrative services. I'm going to stop at more detailing the problems in this area and the proposed ways of solving them. First, in order to address the problem of the absence of a single list of administrative services, it is proposed that a comprehensive list of administrative services should be approved at the level of the law, that administrative authorities should be prohibited from providing payment services, in addition to budgetary institutions which are delegated by law to provide such services. To prohibit administrative authorities from delegating powers for the provision of administrative services to operators or natural persons. [[enterprises]] Secondly, in order to solve the problem of high wages for receiving administrative services, it is proposed to pay the full cost of paying once for the entire set of jobs. Payments for services will be limited to the cost of providing them. The government will determine the salary for each service. Thus, in all regions of Ukraine there will be the same value for the same service. Thirdly, in order to address the problem of time limits, it is proposed to establish that services are provided in the shortest period and for the minimum number of visits. The service deadline may not exceed 30 calendar days. Services are available via the Internet and through administrative services centres that operate under the single window principle. The bill also provides for office.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u271	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u272	The bill also provides that officials and officials who are authorized to provide administrative services and administrators will be personally responsible for the performance of their duties. The solution to the problems raised will be a significant step in coping with corruption. Yes, it will minimize the contact of natural and legal persons with officials of administrative bodies authorized to make decisions regarding the provision of administrative services. All the funds received by the administrative authorities as fees for administrative services will be included in the General Fund of the State Budget of Ukraine and in the local budgets. Dear colleagues, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u273	Thank you. Have a seat, please. National MP Demcishen from the committee will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u274	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, colleagues! On December 5, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed at its meeting the draft Law on Administrative Services, introduced by the President of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that during 2008 and 2011, several bills were registered, which provided the basis for the idea of settling the issue of the provision of administrative services in a separate legislative act. However, none of them were considered by Parliament. I would like to point out that, as we considered it, we saw some positive novels in this bill that we are considering today. That is, individual articles listed here. The definition of the terms used in the project has been introduced in an article on the standards for the provision of administrative services and a number of other novelties. During our meeting, all in attendance were supported by the idea of the urgency of legal regulation in the field of law. At the same time, a number of comments were made regarding the bill. That's also what the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is talking about. The Committee on Budget Affairs and the Ministry of Finance also comments on the bill. At the conclusion of the discussion, the committee’s opinions were divided: Six national deputies supported the idea. To send for work, 6 to adopt the bill as a basis, one kept. Therefore, the committee has not identified itself from the matter and suggests it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u275	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u276	The Committee therefore suggests that this issue be identified by Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u277	Thank you. Who insists on this? I can't see. The committee suggests that we decide on the bill by voting what we should do now. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Administrative Services. [[Registration number 9435]] Please vote. [[14:18:22]] For 240 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee is being announced for consideration. [[about optimisation of the composition]] The committee proposes to adopt this bill as a basis. What are the observations? A committee proposal is put to the vote on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Monopoly Committee. [[about optimisation of the composition]] Please vote. [[14:19:15.]] For 266 Decision taken. The committee proposes that the committee prepare the draft law for the second reading of the reduced procedure, I mean Bill 9316. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[14:19:44]] For 241 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the structure and procedure of the personnel of the Ukrainian Security Service is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9496]] Asking you to consider the matter, from the committee, I mean, by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:20:17]] For 223 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Miroshnichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u278	Dear voters, dear colleagues! The President of Ukraine introduced to the Supreme Council a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the structure and procedure of the personnel of the Ukrainian Security Service. [[Registration number 9494]] This bill has been drafted in the context of the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service by creating a counter-intelligence unit to protect the interests of the State in the field of information security, legislative regulation of the processing of personnel of the Security Service. It is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Security Service Act and the General Structure and Numbering of the Ukrainian Security Service, according to which the list of functional units of the Central Security Service and its subordinated bodies is complemented by a counter-intelligence unit to protect the interests of the State in the field of information security. The process of calculating security personnel is confirmed by its head, the adoption of legislative proposals will ensure effective response to the threats to Ukraine's national security in the information field and will bring the Security Service structure into line with the tasks imposed on it by the State. Dear colleagues! This bill is short, simple and can be adopted in the first reading and generally as a law because it has a technical character. The BSS should deal with issues, including information security, and now it needs to bring its structure into line. Please support this bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u279	Dear National Deputies! Who has the point, the proposals for this bill? The committee was more critical of this legislative initiative, and he suggested that the subject be reinstated from the right of legislative initiative. If you have no other opinion, we will follow the Rules and put a bill to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the structure and procedure of the personnel of the Ukrainian Security Service. [[Registration number 9494]] Please vote. [[14:23:04]] For 264 Decision taken. The President's representative, as rapporteur for this bill, suggests that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider his proposal for the adoption of the draft as a whole. Is there no objection? Given that there are no objections, I am voting on the proposal to adopt an entire draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the structure and procedure of the personnel of the Ukrainian Security Service. [[Registration number 9494]] Please vote. [[14:23:47]] For 263 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act is being reviewed. [[on the organization of transports by the Kyiv Ministry of State]] [[Registration number 9091]] The committee considered the bill in detail and decided to recommend it as a basis because it was essential. Is there a need to report to you? It doesn't, does it? Since the committee has worked hard, we have every reason to trust him and to put to the vote a proposal to adopt the bill on the basis that I do. Please vote. [[14:24:43]] For 268. Decision taken. A draft Law on the Future Generations Fund is being announced for consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has also considered this bill comprehensively and considers it appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we accept it as a basis, given that we need future generations in Ukraine. Therefore, the request to consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[14:25:22]] For 232 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Finance Minister Sergey Rybak, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valery Baranov. Please, in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u280	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The goal of creating a future-generation fund is to accumulate resources to finance social reforms. The creation of a future-generation fund will allow funding for measures aimed at reducing the negative impact of cyclical economic factors, population ageing, and other social programs. The cost of the fund in accordance with the bill can be directed towards financing, such as the deficit of the Pension Fund, health insurance and other directions that will be determined by you, the honourable people's deputies. The implementation of the provisions of the Future Generations Fund Act will be carried out on the basis of the sources defined by the State Budget Act. We plan that when the state budget is profitable, at least 10 percent of that will be directed towards the formation of a future generation fund. In view of the fact that the main source of formation is part of the State Budget’s surplus, the law will become effective with the approval of the State Budget Act for the corresponding fiscal year when the State Budget becomes a surplus. Please support him in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u281	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valeriy Alexiyovich Baranov will report to you, dear colleagues, on the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u282	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! This bill is being considered at our meeting. We strategically support the idea of creating such a fund, and we need to note a number of fundamental observations on the substance of the proposed mechanism. That's what the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration says. It must be said that some of the provisions of this bill have not been agreed upon. Yes, the provisions of this law on the financing of the pension deficit in connection with the introduction of the accrual system of pension insurance are not in line with the Law on Measures to Reform the Pension System. According to which this accumulation system will operate, starting with the year in which the budget of the Pension Fund will be inefficiencies. The provisions of the bill also need clarification in order to bring them into line with existing legislation. Also in the proposed drafting of the second article 2 of the bill on the definition of a portion of the State Budget's surplus, at least 10 per cent of which is directed to the Fund, the State Budget Act does not fully comply with article 5 of the bill in practical application of the bill, since the future generations of the Fund's State Budget project will reduce the volume of the surplus or the budget will generally be defective, regardless of the amount of the fund's funds. In addition, warnings should be made about the reality of the sources of funding for such a fund, taking into account the current state of socio-economic development of the country. Thus, the project in question needs further development, particularly in terms of clarifying its provisions, according to the budgetary methodology. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs decided to recommend Bill 9401 to the Supreme Council as a basis. It should be pointed out that when this bill is being drafted for second reading, it is appropriate to include it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u283	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u284	It is appropriate to involve government experts, the Presidential Administration, the experts of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure systematic regulation of this issue, in accordance with the Budget Code. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u285	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Let's sign up, because now we're going to have a problem. Please sign up for the performance. Vladimir Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u286	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! You know, I don't know how it happened that I signed up for it, but I think you'll excuse me, in principle, the performance will be "against." Look what you're talking about. Of course, such a fund needs to be built and there is a reasonable suggestion that such things should be done. Future generations should have a clear foundation, a foundation of financial security that the predecessors left behind. However, in our view, the deputy faction of Reforms for the Future, we have a hidden bridge between the state budget of Ukraine. Today, which has been separated into a separate subject by the Pension Fund, which is formed on the basis of citizens’ incomes. And in one way or another, it's regulated by the law in force. To date, the State budget cannot finance the Pension Fund, but it can only be in the form of loans or other grants. This law, in our view, violates this procedure. The second question. Every country in the world has the experience of creating such funds. But they're made not by any revenue from the government budget, but by 10 percent of it, but only by some conjunctural advantages in natural mines. In particular, in Russia it may be oil or gas. In Chile, it's copper and all that. This money is directed exclusively to development, not to the budget. Next. In 20 years of independence, Ukraine had no deficit budget. And here it means that this fund is formed only on the basis of the cost-effectiveness of the budget. Then how did the figure of 10.9 billion dollars come to be? Who counted it? Let them confirm what they have said. Because I speak frankly and professionally, it's not, it's not true! It is not enough that the law violates article 27 of the Rules and article 91 of the Rules. And he doesn't define the chief executive. Therefore, the MP's Reform for the Future will not vote in favour of this bill in either first or second reading. We're demanding a focus on reprocessing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u287	Thank you. Vladimir Leschenko, please, your statement, the Company faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u288	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! There are laws that are necessary, and there are misunderstandings. What fund of future generations are we talking about?Oh, my God! Just now, a large majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, consisting of the factions of the Party of Regions, the People's Party and the Group of Reforms for the Future, have granted permission for the fund of future generations -- the land -- to sell! The bill states that the purpose of the future generation fund is to accumulate financial resources to finance social reforms. Well, what are the reforms? Reforms always lead to worse. That's why we're in trouble. And there's a lot of problems in society. We need to re-manufactur industrial production, pick up the agro-industrial complex from the knees, well, do something necessary in the residential-communal farm. The demographic situation in the village is fundamentally reversed, the housing building. Armed Forces, law enforcement funding, medicine and education, culture, salary and pensions, prices and tariffs need to be strengthened. And this is about some fund, and the law will take effect at the same time as the State Budget Act, which will establish the state budget surplus. And when that surplus was and when it would be, it would be as much a social problem as it would be. Other countries, of course, form a foundation for future generations or for those beneficial fossils that exist. And we have this bill that surprises us. Therefore, if you do accept it, it is only in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u289	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Law on the Future Generations Fund. [[Registration number 9401]] Please vote. [[14:34:11]] For 230 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the establishment of a State Fund for Regional Development is under consideration. [[Registration numbers 9363, 9363-1]] Reporters are the first Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Vadim Kopilov, Yuri Hanustak. The reporter is Valérie Baranov. Request from the committee: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:34:59]] For 213 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u290	You mean 9367? Come on, dear fellows, we're going to be looking at three right now, and we're going to vote separately, because they are. And 9363, 9363-1, 9367. The bastard reports two, and Baranov will also report two. Three at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u291	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In order to regulate the creation of a modern financial mechanism for regional development, the draft law is intended to supplement the Ukrainian Budget Code with an article on the creation of the State Fund for Regional Development. This ensures that funds are concentrated and that the State provides financial support for regional development on a permanent basis. The amount of the fund will be at least 2.5 per cent of the expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget for the corresponding period. According to the amount of expenditure of the State budget general fund provided for in the Ukrainian National Budget 2012 bill, the estimated amount of the fund will be at least 7.9 billion dollars. The cost of the fund will focus on the implementation of national targeted programmes and investment programmes in part of regional development measures, national cross-border cooperation programmes, regional development agreements and depressive areas programmes, socio-economic development programmes, including programmes and actions for the development of separate administrative units, such as small cities, mountain settlements, populated observation areas and others. The Fund will be allocated under the following criteria: 70 per cent of the funds are allocated between the Republic of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the regional budgets and budgets of the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol according to the number of people living in the respective regions; and 30 per cent of the funds are allocated among the relevant local budgets for the implementation of priority investment projects that contribute to solving the problems of individual administrative and territorial units, taking into account the level of their socio-economic development. In order to use the Fund's funds, it will be determined that the Fund's unused funds will not be eliminated at the end of the budget period, which will guarantee the financing of projects*** over the medium term. Marked changes to Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u292	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u293	The proposed changes to the Budget Code do not provide for the loss of income to the budget. The Fund is set up as a budget programme that approves the funds that are earmarked annually for the financing of subsidies for socio-economic development of the regions, the capital expenditure of the central executive authorities, which are channelled into the regions of the State target programme, the costs of international donor organizations. Considering that the draft law is aimed at creating a new, transparent, guaranteed, stable mechanism for the State financial security of regional development that meets European standards, please accept it in the first reading, taking further account of possible observations and proposals by the Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u294	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valerius Alexiyovich Baranov. Oh, one minute. Yuri Hanustak, please, and then Baranov. Yes, there is Hanusztak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u295	Dear Head, honourable deputies, ladies and gentlemen! Your opinion is on a bill that aims to organise funding for projects that stimulate regional development. What are the basic ideas? Definition. The amount of the fund is very clearly calculated because it is based on clear macroparameters, which are calculated over a few years, so it can be based on government budget income. While in the government project, the link goes to expenses that become known only in September when the budget deficit is announced. Unbiasedness. Quotas for regions are calculated according to a clear methodology that includes both population and area of the region that affects needs and infrastructure. The threshold for regional depression is also clearly defined by the methodology adopted in the European Union. Planometrics. Regional quotas are already defined in a budget declaration that can finally be of practical value. Knowing these quotas, regions have more than six months to complete them with specific projects. I highlight, projects with ready-to-cost costs rather than running programs. Six months is enough to prepare good projects. Timeliness and regularity of funding. The fund is created as part of a special budget fund that allows it to be filled without the government’s manual intervention and to finance projects as regularly as is currently financed by local budgets. The fund’s income base selects the so - called third basket of income that is used to fund grants. Responsibility. The provision on the conveyor method of preparation for the use of funds finally allows for a serious increase in the responsibility of officials, both in the regions and in the center, for the use of funds. Finally, there's a software target method that's so widely advertised, but it's practically not working. The resource, the amount of the fund is estimated at 11 billion. That's because the government has now set up various socio-economic development projects for the following year. The creation of the fund will make it possible to significantly reduce the level of corruption that has been removed from the projects by contractors, since it is possible to clear the chain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u296	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u297	One more half minute. The methodology I have presented is consistent with those applied in EU countries in planning, execution, monitoring and evaluation of regional development projects. And I want one last thing to say. There has been a recent day of self-government, and I ask you to vote for my own bill, because in this case you will show that you are a party of all regions, not just a few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u298	Thank you. Valérie Baranov, head of the committee. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u299	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! These bills deal with a very important issue for local self - government, and they have their benefits and downsides. Plus, the most important thing is that money is fixed for these purposes, and they won't be burned by January 1. Yet, they also have their faults. In particular, the committee notes that there is no adequate justification for the sources of the fund’s formation and the criteria for its distribution of funds, and that there is a lack of agreement between individual provisions with the Constitution and the Budget Code. The bill was also commented on by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which will lead to the conclusion that these bills should be further elaborated. After considering alternative bills 9363 and 9363-1, the committee chose to be appropriate and recognized to adopt the Government draft Law No. 9363. They supported the adoption of this bill by committees on economic policy and construction, urban construction, housing and utility. The Bill 9367, which was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, clarified the separate position of part two of article 105 of the Budget Code on the basic principles for granting subsidies for investment programs. The bill, according to the committee, is also insufficiently motivated in terms of effective regulation. The main expert office of the apparatus also has some disagreements. Therefore, in view of the proposals for the allocation of subsidies in Bill No.9367, similar to the system of distribution of the State Regional Development Fund, as set out in Project 9363, and given that the joint task of the bill is to ensure the continued development of the region, the Committee on Budget Affairs believes that their position should be harmonized and considered in a comprehensive manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u300	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u301	As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 9363, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers; entrusting the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues with the task of finalizing the draft bill with our observations. And I would like to support the relevant draft of the Order, which was made by members of the Committee on Budget Affairs at number 9063. At the same time, we need to work with government experts, the President's Administration and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to ensure a comprehensive regulation of changes to the Budget Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u302	Who's going to be speaking, my dear fellows? Please sign up. Vladimir Lechchenko is already here. Please, it's Lechchenka's microphone. And tell me who else is going to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u303	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I am referring to the draft amendment to article 105 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the principles and criteria for the allocation of subsidies for the implementation of investment programmes. [[No. 9367]] Again, discrimination against rural and depressed territories. The first criterion for the allocation of subsidies, the number of population in the region. This may have a negative impact on the level of State support for investment programs aimed at overcoming the depression of the respective territories. The second criterion is the level of socio-economic development at the rate of gross regional product per person in absolute terms. On both criteria, industrial regions with higher numbers will be the most supported, and the rural population will receive less support in the distribution of subsidies. I would like to see this situation taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u304	National MP Hanushtak, please. You have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u305	What the previous speaker said is included in my bill, which is primarily supported by depressed areas. And since quotas are available, including in the area, it is a rural area, not an industrial area. This time. The second thing that is. These bills, in principle, need to be considered with the Regional Development Act, which Matthew gave, and now he's in a position to do so. Because without the approval of the regional development strategy and the regional development strategy, it's all going to be in the air, so you won't see what the costs are going to be and what the indicators of success are as a result of what we're spending. So what I'm saying is that we have to support the President, and we have to accept the real project, not the imitation. Because a government project is actually a simulation of the creation of a regional development fund, while my project allows me to make planned funding and real responsibility for the fact that money is spent properly. Because, well, you know very well that the draft budget now has a total volume, then it's distributed, only in the middle of the year do we have a ready list of objects. And the funding comes in December, it's due in the south. Well, that's not normal. In my project, we have ready projects that start funding from January 1st. And we're finally going to midterm planning, because we can figure out what the cost is, because the bond goes to the income, not the expense. And we're finally going to come to this budget, we don't want that. So at least I'm going to make a second reading of my proposals to make this law one that's acceptable so that it's not embarrassing in front of the regions, because we're going to reward here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I will put bills to the vote according to the order of their registration. The first, honourable colleagues, is to vote on a government bill to amend the Budget Code for the Establishment of a State Fund for Regional Development. [[Registration number 9363]] Please vote. [[14:48:51]] For 236 Decision taken. Thus, there is no need to vote in favour of a bill by a colleague of Hanoushka; he will make his proposals for a second reading. Am I saying it right? The draft Law amending article 105 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on Principles and Criteria for the Distribution of Subsidies for Investment Programmes is now put to the vote. [[projects]] [[Registration number 9367]] [[government]] Please vote. Don't you have to vote? So I'm going to put it on the ground, the Supreme Council is not going to vote, it's going to be rejected, it's not going to vote like that, it's going to be hanging out with us. I'll lay the groundwork and you'll make the decisions. A motion for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 9367]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:49:57]] For the The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. [[Registration number 9367]] A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the borderline age of government, diplomatic service, and service in local self - government is being announced for consideration. Registration number 9266. Rapporteur: National Deputy of Ukraine Anatoly Horbatyuk, co-rapporteur with the committee, Vasil Demčishen. Request to consider the matter under reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:50:37]] For 209 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u307	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The bill provides for amendments to certain laws of Ukraine regarding the borderline age of residence in the civil service, diplomatic service, and service in the local government. [[9266]] The need for the adoption of this law is made subject to an objective need to resolve the issue of the definition of a time limit for a specific category of working citizens prior to the adoption of new legislation on public service. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Measures for the Legislative Security and Reform of the Pension System, which has become effective since October 1, 2011, the age of service is now 62 years for men and 60 years for women. In addition, the law repeals a standard that provided for the possibility of extending the period of service to five years. Thus, it is possible that the term of service for men is actually reduced by three years, which can be regarded as a violation of part three of article 22 of the Constitution, which allows for a narrowing of the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms in the adoption of new laws or changes to valid laws. In this regard, it should be noted that there is a diversity in developed European countries regarding the age of State service. Some systems set a minimum age limit, others - maximum, third - minimum and maximum, or no limit at all. Generally, the analysis of European legislation, the borderline age in countries such as Germany, France, Belgium, Switzerland, and so forth ranges from 65 to 70 years. It is also worth noting that Ukraine’s borderline service age is in fact in line with the retirement age, while the analysis of European legislation shows that for civil service officials age limits are not always due to the achievement of the general pension age. In addition, it is permitted to continue the public service, even with certain age restrictions. In addition, differences remained in the past and at the marginal age of public service for women and men who did.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u308	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u309	It should also be noted that the Ukrainian President's draft Law on State Service has already been considered by Parliament. It also provides an age limit for public service, 65 years, and even proposes to extend the term in some cases in the interests of the public service for a higher category of posts. The adoption of this law will eliminate existing legal inequalities in legislation in respect of persons who are to be released from public service at this time because of the achievement of the actual retirement age established by law. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u310	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the rapporteurs to start the report from the last sentence. It's okay. Please, from the committee, National Deputy Demcishen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u311	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, colleagues! We considered the bill at our meeting. In fact, this bill is now in force after the adoption of the Pension Insurance Act and so on. Because in fact, the age of service is now 62 years. And we have a lot of people who are good enough to benefit our nation. So at its meeting, the committee supported the bill and asked to accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u312	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Names of the national MPs, please. Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u313	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! There are no warnings against the content and substance of the law. And our parliamentary group may even take the initiative to adopt it immediately in general. But there is one colossus, and something has to be done with it. The thing is, of the three parts that make up this bill, the last two parts, there's no problem, there's really no need to settle these points and everything is right. As for the first part. And again, we have a situation where there's a bill that's clearly duplicated and a subject that's already in another bill that's passed a little bit of the consideration in the Supreme Council. We've adopted it in the Supreme Council, and this bill will now be signed by the President, the new edition of the State Service Act. And the bill, which we are about to vote on, in the first part of it is proposed to amend the non-existent Law on State Service. It's been there for 65 years. Since it's a presidential bill, the probability that it will be signed, and the interference with the second reading actually wasn't relevant in terms of content, the probability is 99 to 100 percent. How do we get out of the colossal now, accepting if it's in general, and we would recommend that maybe we rule out the first part so that it doesn't interact with the document that's already passed, which already predicts this norm. Because we can't make any changes, this document will come later, it will come with a change that will be signed by the President by then. This is essentially the reason for bringing him back to the Supreme Council for promise. So I would suggest perhaps removing the first part of the Civil Service, Service, and Local Self-Government Act. Well, let's decide how to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u314	Dear colleagues, for Taras Blackwall's observation, I'm giving you an explanation. We've accepted with you, your honorary colleagues, the Pension Reform Act, which provides for government officials, respectively, women and men, 60 and 62 years old. Then you and I passed the State Service Act, which provided for government officials — 65 years of age. But this Public Service Act is in force as of January 1, 2013. And there was a conflict -- a breakup for 15 months. In order for this gap not to occur, this proposal is also enshrined in this law, which refers to the age of 65. Otherwise, people who have reached the age of 62 will be released, and these are professional specialists, especially on social policy, retirement. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine began to receive a massive call from the leaders of the local authorities not to "excuse" this bunch of people who know the matter, not to go to the rally, but to work to provide the proper clarification. Therefore, there will be no differences, given that the new Law on State Service has been in force since January 1, 2013. That's why there are no warnings. And I would ask our colleague to withdraw these warnings. Yeah. No, the committee's offering to take it. So, Your Honor, I'm going to put to the vote a proposal for a committee on acceptance as a basis and as a whole a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the borderline age of residence on the State, diplomatic service and service in the local self-government authorities, please vote. [[Registration number 9266]] [[14:58:39]] For 259. The law is passed. Dear colleagues! The committee made a proposal and requested that the draft Act on Amendments to Appendix No. 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 be postponed. [[amending the appointment of the budget]] No objections? Then we postpone consideration of this bill. Dear National Deputies! We need to now consider one issue that is made up of three bills. Registration numbers: 9262, 9322, 9322-1, which refer to the submission of documents to the deputies. What are we talking about? The point is not to reproduce documents in the form of bills that are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but to send messages through the information network. The MP, his assistants, will be able to read the relevant bills. Because now we're spending 20 tons of paper on a session to reproduce the bill. And taking into account work, the use of technology, over 400,000 dollars are spent. In this case, it will reduce the cost. So I'd like to ask that we look at these issues in a simplified way. I can't see the reporters here, I've already reported my bill. So I'm going to put these bills to the vote according to the order, according to the registration. The first is the proposal to adopt the draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[on the order in which texts of bills and accompanying documents are made available to members of the People's Parliament]] Author: Mikola Tomenko. Registration number 9262. Please identify yourself as a base. [[15:01:01]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The second is the draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. " [[on the optimization of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] Registration number 9322. I'd like to make a statement. [[15:01:31]] For-0 The decision is not taken. And finally, the draft law that the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council proposes to adopt as a whole. [[Registration number 9322-1]] This is a draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The author is your humble servant. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[15:02:14]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. All those who have not voted will be issued in writing and calculated from the salary. Dear national deputies, for the transcript. I have to. The clarification is that we have adopted, approved, and approved the Peacebuilding Contingent Act in Côte d’Ivoire. Now, in preparation for the signature, it has been discovered that we need to establish a position, not from the moment of acceptance, but from the date of publication. Now we have an agreement to publish it more quickly. It's just that those who contribute, I mean the National Security and Defence Council, did it at the right time. This is for the transcript that we're going to record, this is a technical moment: from the day we publish. It will be published tomorrow. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine is being tabled. [[on the execution of energy-potential work]] [[Registration number 9326]] There is a request from the committee to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[15:03:42]] For 218. Decision taken. Reporter Alexander Andriyovich Kozub
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u315	Honorary colleagues, the project proposes to amend article 99 of the Ukrainian Land Code and article 14 of the Ukrainian Energy Land Act and the legal regime of social areas of energy objects (to simplify the procedure for obtaining a right-wing land serviette for the construction of devices, buildings, and project and educational works to determine the energy potential of renewable energy sources. The adoption of the legislation will contribute to the development of renewable energy, the simplification of the renewable energy system, the improvement of Ukraine's energy security and the reduction of dependence on imported energy, the reduction of environmental damage and the improvement of the country's environmental situation, and the integration of renewable energy sources into fuel and energy balance, the positive impact on regional development, the expansion of jobs, the increase of local budgets, the increase of population living, the improvement of regional environmental conditions. Please accept as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u316	Thank you. By Valerius Fedorovich Bevanko. Tereshuk will report, please, to the deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u317	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Your attention is proposed by the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kozuba, [[on the execution of energy-potential work]] [[Registration number 9326]] The bill proposes to refer to the types of land-servite right to the construction of devices, buildings to carry out project-training work to determine energy potential. According to the project device, projects for the design and development of energy potential can be located on the land of all categories of land without changing their purpose by contract with the owner or users of the land. At the same time, the bill does not contain a clear list of devices and structures that are planned to be placed on land to carry out project and educational work related to the determination of energy potential, which, in turn, may lead to abuses in land use on land rights. The bill also adds to the types of land title, article 99 of the Ukrainian Land Code. However, it is not taken into account that the establishment of land services for the deployment of energy objects and the transmission of electricity is already regulated by article 16 of the Ukrainian Energy Land Act and the legal regime for special areas of energy objects, which is not envisaged to amend the draft law. According to the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the bill on the results of the first reading should be rejected. As a result of a review of the bill at its meeting, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy proposes that land relations be directed to the subject of the legislative initiative. Please support the position of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u318	Yes, if you would like to share in this discussion, please sign in. Yes, the names, please, of the national MPs. Yes, Grivkovsky refuses. Fedun, please. He's refusing, too. Dear colleagues, the conclusion of the committee: Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. At the same time, the Rules require us to put a proposal to the vote first on acceptance as a basis. I am voting on this proposal, namely, the adoption of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the execution of energy-potential work]] [[Registration number 9326]] Please vote. [[15:08:06]] For 239. Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] [[Registration number 9051]] The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Copilov Vadim Anatoliyovich. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[15:08:44]] For 222 Decision taken. Please, Vadim Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u319	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill provides for an expanded list of state-owned property that can be transferred free of charge from state-owned property to municipal property: enterprises that ensure the viability of residential areas, such as thermal and hydroelectric power plants, facilities for the well-being of populated areas, engineering infrastructure, water and gas management of residential, water and utility industries, water and hydrotechnical facilities, buildings for the development of an existing network of education, culture, physical culture and sport, health care, social security, and the placement of local self-government bodies. A list of immovable military assets that can be transferred free of charge from state property to municipal property, such as buildings for free of charge, may be accommodations, family shelters located in military towns, as well as objects of immovable and mobile military property, except for all types of weapons, military equipment, and ammunition, if they are not included in the corresponding list of military assets that are subject to alienation. Articles 7 and 7 of the Bible. The bill introduces rules according to which a positive decision by the Cabinet regarding the free transfer to municipal property of objects of general significance is possible if local self - government bodies are taken at a plenary session of a suitable meeting to make use of such property on a purposeful basis and do not alienate it from private property. In the event of a breach of local self - control, an agreement on the alienation of such property into private property would be considered worthless. Thus, the proposed amendments to the bill are aimed at developing a material and technical basis for local self-government, increasing the responsibility of executive authorities and local self-government for targeted use, the effectiveness of the functions of the objects and the preservation of these objects in the property of territorial communities, villages and villages. In case you have a balance sheet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u320	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u321	The subject of the economic activity of financing expenditure for the production of legal documentation for the object of the transfer is made at the expense of the entity. Please support the draft law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u322	Thank you. The committee is headed by the Economic Policy Subcommittee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich. None. Please, Yuri Voropeyel from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u323	Dear colleagues, the bill was considered at a meeting of the Economic Policy Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 18 October. And the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it on first reading and as a basis. Similarly, the Chief Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is of the same opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u324	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? No one insists. I then put to the vote: on the adoption of the draft Act on Amendments to the Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] [[Registration number 9051]] Please vote. [[15:12:38]] For 259. Thank you. Decision taken. There is a question of the draft Law on the Features of the Establishment of a State Shareholder Association for the General Use of Rail Transport. Registration numbers 9337 and 9337-1. There's a short cut. Please vote for the short cut. [[15:13:10]] For-191 Adopted Dear colleagues! The chairman of the committee suggests that we consider the next 9377 together. So they heard the 9337 report, 9377, and we have the same reporters, and then they heard 9337-1 Yuri Karmazin and discussed all these bills and separately made decisions on each of them. Then, in accordance with Bill 9337 and 9377, I invite you to the floor of the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Mr. Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Please, you have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u325	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act on the characteristics of the establishment of a public public limited liability association for rail transport in general use, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, developed by the Ministry of Infrastructure. [[No. 9337]] The bill is based on a state-wide target programme for the reform of rail transport for 2010-2019, approved by the government. The problems addressed by the draft law must be addressed by the need to divide the functions of government regulation and economic functions, the inadequacy of the organisational structure of rail transport to the conditions of market economy development and European Union directives. Progressive old and significant levels of re-funding, cross-subsidisation, commercial passenger transport and, as a result, low levels of competition in the rail market. The proposed law lays down the characteristics of the establishment of a public shareholding company for rail transport, as well as the creation of conditions to improve its efficiency to meet the needs of the national population in transport. The bill defines the formation of the statutory capital of the shareholder society, based on the property of rail transport in general use, with the exception of infrastructure. One hundred percent of the shares of the plant that are used to repair the moving warehouse and manufacture of concrete bars, land use, and the economic knowledge of infrastructure are also valued and invested in statutory capital. These 100 percent of the shares of the stockholders formed are secured by state ownership and are legally prohibited from any alienation. Infrastructure, highway railways, engineering, networking, stations, distribution centers, rehabilitation, and so on, remain state property and are passed on to society on the right of economic knowledge. This property is not to be privatized, nor can it be prosecuted for a court decision or an arrest. The Society cannot transfer rents, leasings, concessions, management, mortgages, free use, capitalization, and other transactions that may result in the alienation of such property. Taking into account the role and significance of the railway for the economy and population of Ukraine, the bill establishes a rule that all authorities of the State Shareholder Society, the Supervisory Board, the Audit Board, the Administration, will be appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and will be approved and signed by the Association. The law provides that a new society is the successor of all the household rights and obligations of the State Administration of railways and other decommissioned enterprises. In view of the above, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u326	Thank you. By the second bill, please. [[9377]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u327	I'm moving on. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Railway Transport Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, developed by the Ministry of Infrastructure. The proposed bill is designed to implement the 2011 National Plan of Action for the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme "Affordable Society, a Competitive Economy and an Effective State", approved by the President of Ukraine. The Law on Rail Transport was enacted 15 years ago and has not been substantially altered during this time. It has a state-owned system of administration and management of rail transport, as exemplified by the U.S.S.R.S.R. The purpose of the proposed law is to regulate the legal and economic relations associated with the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the specialities of the establishment of a state-owned company for rail transport in general use and the delimitation of the functions of state and economic governance of the industry. The adoption of the law will allow conditions to be created to comply with constitutional requirements, the institutional and legal system of rail transport management, enhance its competitiveness in internal and international markets, provide additional opportunities for investment resources to be involved in technological modernization of the sector. In view of the above, please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Rail Transport Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u328	Thank you. Please have a seat. I invite you to report on Bill 9337-1 of Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u329	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you, Adam Ivanovich, because such a serious bill as a bill on the specialities of the establishment of a state-owned general-use railway association, which has now been reported, was first considered not by that committee, not by the Committee on Property, which is in charge of economic policy. And it's about hidden, hidden privatization. And so, Adam Ivanovich, all of this is no longer legitimate. In addition to everything else, Adam Ivanovich, before the meeting, I've asked you to count the number of these supporters, the satellites of the Party of Regions, the Block of Lithuania, one faction manager sitting on the spot -- Igor Sharov, there's no one else. I'm asking you, there's no Future, there's no Leaders. So, I ask you, dear, how can 55 people today determine the fate of property that has been built for centuries?Oh, my God! Therefore, distinguished national MPs! Any vote will be illegal. Adam Ivanovich, please stop the vacchanal. As for the project that I'm presenting, I'm predicting that the only shareholder of the society would be a state that would own 100 percent of the shares that wouldn't be alienated. I mean, in your government bill, you exclude all railways from the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. Both the Donetsk and the Levite and the Odessa and the Transducer and the South, you rule out the Posacan car repair plant, the oyster factory and all the other factories. Institutions, everything else. It's all gonna be torn in the pockets! Because of what? Because of the mechanisms that are written here. And it says here that you can't do less than 5 percent, not more than 5 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u330	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u331	Dear Adam Ivanovich! This law shows that government law cannot be passed. My law allows me to leave the property of the state, to deposit the funds there, but not to privatize, not to dissipate. By the way, the general conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority is that a government bill should be returned to pre-work, taking into account observations. And there, from the conceptual point of view, a lot of observations! For this reason, please, Adam Ivanovich, consider the draft bill not to be a committee, in violation of the Rules Act. There are 55 people who can press the button. That's two. And I'm going to ask you to turn on the video timer now, to confirm everything that's going on in court. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u332	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Clearly you won't answer my question, but I'll ask it. Why, in addition to one member of the NUNS faction and all others, including BUT, do not work or perform the public functions for which they are paid their wages? Please, Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich on all three committee bills. I'll be in in four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u333	Dear colleagues, on November 30, this year, the Committee on Transport and Communications at its meeting discussed very carefully the draft laws on the characteristics of the formation of a state-owned company for general rail transport. Registration number 9337, introduced by the Government, and registration number 9337-1, introduced by National Deputy Carmazin. Both bills provide for a settlement of relations related to structural reforms in the field of rail transport and the establishment of a state - owned association for rail transport. The draft introduced by Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich essentially duplicates the government bill and contains a number of rules that could complicate railway transport during the period of reform. In view of this, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Infrastructure have expressed a lack of purpose in supporting it. The main scientific and expert office made a note of both bills, proposed that Bill 9337 be recast, and pointed out that it was not appropriate to adopt the bill 9337-1 because the bills submitted by the government allowed more. 9337 and 9377 allow for a more complex approach to railway reform. The Transport and Communications Committee believes that a number of comments from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration can be taken into account when preparing the bill for consideration in a second reading. With the proposal of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office for the adoption of a single law on the introduction of all necessary amendments to the Law on Rail Transport of Ukraine, the Committee does not agree, since the draft legislation on the specificity of the establishment of a state-owned general-use railway association is temporary, temporary. Unlike the draft amendment to the Ukrainian Rail Transport Act. [[on the delimitation of functions of the State and public administration of the sector]] The European Integration Committee noted that the government bill did not conflict with European Union law and recommended that it be accepted as a basis. [[9337]] In view of the above, the Committee on Transport and Communications proposes. Take as a basis the draft law on the characteristics of the establishment of a state-owned shareholders association for the general use of rail transport, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[by number 9337]] Instruct the committee to work on it, taking into account the proposals made by the legislators ’ right to take the initiative and to bring Parliament into Parliament’s second reading. Reject the draft law on the characteristics of the formation of a state-owned shareholders association for rail transport in general use, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin. [[by number 9337]] Thank you for your attention. Two words of myself. At the committee meeting, all the factions in attendance voted unanimously in favour of the bill, and everyone noted that the reform of the railway was no longer mature, but was disastrous, that it should be started immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u334	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u335	As far as Bill 9337 is concerned. This bill proposes amendments to the Rail Transport Act to reconcile its provisions with Bill 9337, which was submitted by the Government on the characteristics of the formation of a state-owned public limited liability association for general use rail transport. The findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate on the return of the draft to work are not supported by the Committee on Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u336	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u337	Yeah. And so, suggests the Committee on Transport and Communications, to take as a basis a bill amending the Law on Rail Transport and to entrust the committee with working on it, taking into account the proposal of the subject of the right to legislative initiative and to bring it to Parliament's second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u338	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Sign up: two for, two against. Carmazin didn't say everything. Captain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u339	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the MP's "Reform for the Future" faction for today, having discussed this issue, came to the next conclusion. We have five questions about the two bills 77 and 37. The first is that, in fact, the Crucifixion with all the subjects involved in the formation of a public stock company creates grounds for withdrawal from the list of objects that are not subject to privatization, all objects that are not currently in use or under its patronage. The other one. Privatization itself, which can actually be done. Third. Prices that today are regulated exclusively by the Crucifixion, count, the State. What will happen after the moving composition belongs to private individuals? Four. Maintaining paths and contact networks. In what way and how they will make profits to the State, how these objects will be maintained, and so on. And the last of the 37 laws. In what way and how will Ukrazlaznica be guided, more specifically by moving a moving convoy across Ukraine? What permits will be granted? Note only the following: Uncertainly there is little need for reform of the Railroad, little investment. In fact, today the cost of transporting one passenger is one kiln per kilometre, the lowest in Europe. Of course, we need to reform, we need to add investment. And it is certainly possible to add investments to the moving stock, including through the granting of the right to create private carriers in this area, that is a fact. It's about keeping track. We had a meeting yesterday with the representatives of the Crucifixion. Indeed, this law provides for the maintenance of roads precisely by obtaining deductions for the use of these networks, these carriers. But it's about prices. Today, one can say that the person who transports in the next will not work in the minus. And it is today that students, students, and tax categories are transferred at the expense of the state. So the MP faction will vote freely.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u340	Yes, Grivkowski does not insist. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u341	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! First of all, Adam Ivanovich, I'll tell you, I won't ask for a replica within my own time. You asked where the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and the faction "The Fatherland." In protest, they left the hall to show that illegal things were happening, once to show that there was a totalitarian regime in Ukraine that ensured that yesterday was held in custody for an unlimited term by the leader of the opposition, who voted in favour of over 11 million people, Yulia Timoshenko. Think about it, a judge with no brains, no conscience making a decision, it can be made on each of you, so don't make any noise, make decisions about taking the watch, and don't write the term. Is there a brain in this person? Obviously not. I ask, "When a man is lying on a stake and his data says he can't be in a hospital, he can be judged and examined, and when is he under painkillers?" Here's the answer that without a conscience. Because of this, I agree with what Mr. Caplienko has just said about what the preconditions have been for secret privatization. Let me get you a little quote from the same bill. "Since the adoption of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to form a society before the state registration, the administration of the railway company, the railway and economic societies. and so on they have no right without the consent of the central executive authority and the infrastructure, and then what can be done is to do what can lead to the alienation of property, which costs more than 5 percent of the government's balance sheet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u342	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u343	Think about it! Up to 5 percent. Divide 100 by 5 and all, split into 20 units of property. You can tear it up. That's why I'm asking you not to support this bill. I don't support him because he's a criminal. I'm talking to the faction leaders. Unfortunately, there are no faction leaders, Adam Ivanovich, here in the hall, only one I see. There is no Simon, there is no Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u344	Thank you. They're negotiating with you to come to work. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u345	I think the most effective act of protest that would get our attention would be if all the protestors, or the wages refused, or the mandates passed. That would be a trick! It's just like that. Childhood. We've been spending the whole day chasing the train you picked up for yesterday's exploits. Adam Ivanovich, I propose 9337 and 9377 to take as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u346	Thank you. One minute from the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u347	Dear colleagues and respected citizens of Ukraine! Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. What is suggested in these bills? Despite all the good intentions that the reporters were talking about and everything that was written there, we must clearly and unequivocally say that this is the beginning of the privatization that will take place on rail transport. The path is known. First the stock, then the corporation, then the privatisation. The Communists have never supported such bills, nor will they support them today. Let's do better today what's going on on the railroad. Couples of trains are being cut short, and people cannot go to different parts of Ukraine on their own. Only in the Kremenchuk Poltava did the shorter directions, even the trailers, and the person cannot go to a funeral or other particular troubles that are taking place, to his family elsewhere in Ukraine. On our own scale, if we're going to input data.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u348	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u349	There will be terrible consequences. And the faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u350	We've completed our consideration of the subject, haven't we? Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are about to proceed to the vote. I first put to the vote draft Law 9337: on the characteristics of the formation of a state-owned public limited liability company for the general use of rail transport. [[government]] Please vote. [[15:35:51]] For 229 Decision taken. And now the bill. The factions? Please. Region Party – 185, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 7, "The People's Party – 20, "Afterfaction" – 12. I now put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Railway Transport Act. [[on the delimitation of the functions of the public and commercial administration of the industry]] [[Registration number 9377]] Please vote. [[15:36:41]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on non - execution or improper performance by the owner or keeper of dogs or other animals is being reviewed. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[15:37:19]] For 221 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u351	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the significance of this question, and so my colleague Olga Gerasimük and I are returning to this question for a second time after the session hall failed to support our bill in our second reading. I want to say that, as an active member of the Supreme Council, I get a lot of letters from voters, and very much applies to the very cases where a child or a person has been asked to help when the aggressive dog has suffered in order to pay for such treatment or surgery. Today's ours. In such cases, our Criminal Code applies articles of special or special parts of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which provides for the punishment of reckless crime. But in fact, according to these articles, our law enforcement agencies rarely break criminal matters. And so when a dog is trashed by such an aggressive dog, which its host does not properly walk, without a thug, without a stick, with a child, this companion, who so walks off an animal, pays a symbolic total fine of 119 bracelets. We have studied very carefully the legislation of other European countries, as is the case with the law. And I want to tell you that in Latvia, Norway, Finland, France, in other countries of the European Union, there is a more severe punishment for animal owners who misused their animals, if they attacked a child, an adult, and there are serious injuries, that person must be criminally responsible. Just as if a man, God forbid, was in an accident, he is responsible for his car. When we first listened to the bill, and during the first and second readings we had a discussion, my colleague Olga Gerasimük and I took into account the suggestions that the session hall then offered and worked with the Ministry of Justice. And so today we ask you very much to support this bill. Because we consider it necessary to supplement Ukraine’s Criminal Code with a special norm, which will establish the very criminal responsibility for improper or irresponsible execution by owners of dogs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u352	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u353	Dear colleagues, I don't think I'm the only one who understands, not just women MPs, that there are people in this room who are aware of the significance of this problem, and I'm asking you very much for your support, but there's no more politics here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u354	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Who will be involved in this discussion, please sign in. If there's no one to vote, we'll vote. Please show the board. Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u355	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! In order not to take up time, we urge you to support this bill. It's really not the attitude of people, people who today are very often, just putting on children, on people of older age, their fighting dogs, they're hard to call people. It is said that by rephrasing the Cotsubinian, dogs are not guilty, those who violate all moral laws believe that the law of law will not stop them. We call for this balanced bill to be supported so that those who are really hard to call people understand what punishment awaits them. We'll support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u356	Thank you. People's deputy Fedun.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u357	He's refusing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u358	He's refusing. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on this proposal, namely the adoption of a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on non-compliance, or improper performance by the owner or keeper of dogs, or other animals to take care of them. [[Registration number 9040]] Please vote. Please vote. [[15:41:32]] For 106 The decision is not taken. The main scientific and expert office suggested that the bill should be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, so there remains this second proposal and I put it to a vote, on the return of the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. [[Registration number 9040]] [[15:42:05]] For 259. Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 98 of the Law on the judiciary and status of judges. [[on ensuring the activities of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine]] Please, Vladimir Philipovich Pisarenko. There is a suggestion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[15:42:49]] For 201
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u359	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The bill was designed in response to the need for a legislative solution to the issue of pay for the work of members of the Supreme Court of Judges. Yes, part of the fifth article of Article 98 of the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges Act, in particular, provides that the salaries paid to members of the commission are paid on the basis of the salaries paid for the posts held by these persons in the organs from which they are dispatched. Members of the commission, who are appointed by the assembly of representatives of the legal institutions and scientific institutions, are paid a salary of the average monthly salary of other members of the commission. In practice, however, there is a situation where a member of the commission does not have a primary job. According to part two of article 92 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, the term of office is three years. The law does not contain provisions that would allow for termination of powers and grounds for dismissal, but conditions of payment are not regulated. The bill that we have submitted proposes to determine the remuneration of members of the High Qualifying Commission who do not have a primary place of work, but they exercise the authority of members of the commission at the level of the members of the commission appointed by the assembly of representatives of the legal institutions and scientific institutions. That is, those who today, unfortunately, cannot get a salary under the law will finally be able to. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-09-m0.u360	Dear colleagues, are there any other considerations on this matter? In general, huh? I am voting on the basis of a report on the adoption of the draft Law on the basis and in general on the basis of the proposals made by the rapporteur. [[Registration number 9273]] Please vote. [[15:44:49]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have two small questions to ask us. One moment, please. Dear colleagues, this is the draft decree marking the 80th anniversary of Yuri Bagatikov's birth. There are two projects: 9205, author of Leonid Grac and 2nd, author of Yavorowski. Well, it's from the committee. So I'm in line of order, if you don't mind, I'll put it to a vote, and we'll make a decision then. Clearly, there is a need to discuss the matter? None. So, first of all, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree marking the 80th anniversary of the birth of the great estradian singer Yuri Bagatikov. The author is Leonid Graz. [[Registration number 9205]] It's called, "To celebrate the 80th anniversary of Yuri Bogatikow's birth." Without a great ostrich and all that. That's understandable. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[15:46:11]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've accepted you, and we need to make one more point. You and I have adopted the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the issuance of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity. I'll read it, the committee's already working on it, and it's offering us 131 more details. The Supreme Council today supported the bill by adopting it as a whole. [[9532]] Among other things, the draft provides paragraph 3, which states that, pending the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity approved by the Ukrainian Act of 19 May 2011, "On the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity" is excluded from paragraphs 15, 100 and 101. In view of the requirements of article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Free Economic Activities and the Ukrainian Law on the List of Allowance Documents in the Field of Economic Activities, as well as the fact that the relevant local councils retain the right to land in the lease of relevant municipal property objects and to agree on the issue of rights of use, it is proposed to exclude from the text of the Ukrainian Law "To Change Certain Laws of Ukraine" on the issuance of documents of a permissive nature in the area of economic activity its section I, paragraph 3, in order not to deprive the rights of local authorities. I ask you to vote for this proposal. Please vote. [[15:47:50]] For 237 Clarification has been put to the vote. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of all the issues set out in the schedule for today. And you and I made the decision that "The Difference" was what we had during the performances, it really was "The Different." I thank everyone for their work. Dear National Deputies! The following week the Supreme Council of Ukraine will work in committees, factions, and will communicate directly with the electorate. The next plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin on December 20, 2011. Thank you. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
