ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u1	Good evening, colleagues, or good afternoon. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:02]] Cards were registered in the 396 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear National Deputies, I am announcing the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2012 for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich. Please, Valery Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! After the Bill was presented to the Supreme Council, the Budget Committee carried out thorough work on its positions and indicators. Meetings of working groups were held to review a bill involving the Ministry of Finance, the Court of Auditors, the State Tax Service, the State Customs Service, the National Bank, the State Property Fund, the State Financial Inspectorate, the chief public budget administrators and local government authorities. The review process provides information on the 2012 government budget calculations on their reality and soundness. At the same time, attention is paid to such questions. First of all, unfortunately, we have no reason to increase the revenue of the State Budget Project 2012. At the same time, there are risks of securing the implementation of already planned income indicators, of privatization of state property and government borrowings for the following year, particularly as a result of instability in external financial markets and the threat of a second wave of the global financial crisis. Therefore, in preparing the bill for second reading, the government should further monitor the state of the world economy in the current year and, taking into account international trends, assess internal and external factors for the development of the national economy. The government budget project has set aside 10 billion dollars in revenue from the privatization of state property. To date, however, no draft State Privatization Program has been submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. Secondly, 50 main cost managers were heard in processing the expenditure indicators of the State budget project, and the state and budget problems in the relevant areas of activity were examined. It should be noted that the vast majority of the principals noted that there was a lack of budgetary resources to carry out their functions. At present, however, ministries have not developed appropriate sectoral measures to implement the economic reform programme. The issue of social protection reform is particularly acute. It is time for us to show political will to move to targeted social assistance and to gradually monetize social benefits by organizing recipients of such benefits. Obviously, all the commitments you made could not be fulfilled. Most important today is the beginning of a dialogue with society on this subject, or we will never be able to get out of a closed circle of populism deception by ourselves and people. Thirdly, when dealing with local self-government issues, the biggest concern was the lack of financial resources for delegated powers. This, in turn, distracts the local government’s own resources and inhibits the development of the regions. Addressing the problems of local budgets depends on the effectiveness of measures to implement administrative and territorial reform, which has not yet been conceived, and should be the first. Finally, state social standards and standards must be approved, taking into account the requirements of the relevant law, which should form the basis for the calculation of financial resources for delegated powers. The solution to housing problems is crucial. This problem has never been financed as little as it is now. Therefore, it is necessary for the government to take urgent steps to finance this program. The Minister’s office should address the issue of debt repayment in contrast to tariffs on thermal energy, water supply and water supply. More than 2,000 proposals from the National Deputies and Committees of the Supreme Council have been processed by the committee. The findings of the Court of Auditors for this bill have also been analysed. With regard to the suggestions made, I should point out that most of them were unbalanced and did not meet the requirements of part one of article 156 of the Supreme Council Rules. In particular, not all are aligned with the main fiscal policies for 2012, most of the proposals for increased spending or reduction of government budget revenues do not identify the sources of their coverage and cannot lead to an increase in government debt and state guarantees. According to a previous estimate, about 386 billion dollars are needed in total to take account of all the proposals made. The Committee on Budgets was determined in this way. The proposals relating to the implementation of the October 6 bill adopted by the Supreme Council on amending the Code of Budgets and certain legislative acts of Ukraine at number 9158 are taken into account. Proposals for text and addenda to the bill are taken into account to ensure compliance with the requirements and terminology of budgetary legislation. All proposals that require additional public budget funds have been rejected, but the government is invited to further address such proposals when preparing the bill for second reading. A compromise decision has been found with the government on the allocation of part of the funds under the budget programme "State capital expenditure allocated by the Cabinet of Ministers" aimed at increasing subsidies to local budgets for the socio-economic development of individual areas. In general, the position of the committee is set out in the table and draft decisions given to you. In summary, the Committee on Budget Issues approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft Supreme Council Decision on Conclusions and Proposals to the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2012 as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Under the Rules, the Minister of Finance is present. He is. Dear colleagues, please, the names of the national MPs. National MP Pachesuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u4	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Pachesuk. Dear reporter! In the State Budget for 2012, the classification code provides for compensation for extended travel to individual categories in the total amount of subsidies for the provision of supplies, services, communications, and so forth. All car carriers insist on the selection of a separate code for the programme classification of public expenditure, not with connection and utilities. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u5	In my report, I reminded myself that all problems related to the exercise of delegated powers, as well as benefits, such as the passage of individual categories of citizens, have not been fully implemented since 1991. So we've commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers with you to consider these proposals and find solutions to these critical problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u6	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u7	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko, leader of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u8	Peter Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u9	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Valery Aleksevich, please make yourself clear. We have not considered Law 9127 with you, against which the faction of the Company has categorically opposed. But through the entire draft budget and the rules of this law, they are reflected, i.e. they are prescribed. If this law is not considered, it is in the scope of funding for those benefits that have been defined by laws and previously adopted, on what basis are we now considering on first reading? The main social programmes are not clear on which scheme they will be financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u10	Dear Peter Nikolaevich, you have rightly noticed under Law 9127, it is not adopted today. The same proposal was made to us in the amendment and the Committee also rejected the proposal. That's why we're here, our committee, and yours is a complete match. The budget is planned to increase all social wage guarantees from 5 to 15 per cent. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u11	Yuri Kostenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u12	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u13	Who? Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u14	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Honourable Valery Alexiyovich, according to the Court of Auditors' conclusion on social and economic development measures in the region in 2012, 40 percent of all funds will be allocated to 3 areas: this is Crimea, this is Donetsk, this is Dnipropetrovsk. And for example, the Herson area is 0.7. 40 percent of all costs, and the Herson area is 0.7 percent, the Ternopil region is 1 percent. So there's already a significant imbalance in the Kabmin budget. Again, in our conclusions: The Donetsk region is 160 million and the Ternopil region is 5 million. So there's even more imbalances. Don't you think the Supreme Council of Ukraine isn't until there's such a imbalance?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u15	I understand your question. I would like to remind you that the State budget provides for several targeted subsidies based on formulas for areas, including all other settlements, which include the acquisition of medical equipment, the acquisition of medicines and others, only in the amount of, if I am not mistaken, about 3 billion bracelets. In addition, you see in this list about 700 million bracelets that we have considered on the basis of the proposals that have been made, and they have all been considered on the committee and have been selected collectively. In what way? These should have been of social importance: schools, gardens, hospitals, especially water supply and sanitation. If there were fewer proposals from those areas, then they could not be taken into account — this is the committee's peer opinion on the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u16	Yuri Serbin, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Alexander Steshenko, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u17	Thank you. Your Honor, I've been very careful with your performance, and you've really noticed and used the term "reasonably processed proposals." I'd even add deep down, but frankly, there hasn't been such a government position in the budget committee yet. What's the matter? Maybe we should go up the hall, maybe you were looking for why we were making offers? Why are they all rejected? Thank you for your sincere response, I hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u18	The answer, my dear colleague, is very simple. The budget is a balance of income and expenditure. And you know that the Budget Code puts us all in equal conditions. If we are to offer you to increase spending, we must indicate from what sources to do so. I have noted in my report, as you rightly pointed out, very deeply and precisely that the 386 billion is today the deficit we have been offered in the budget committee. If the budget committee were made up of populists and not pragmatists and economists, we could support all these proposals and destroy the State of Ukraine. That is why only those proposals that are professional, which indicate the sources of these costs, have been supported, and we have given them to you. We could not afford to destroy the balance of the State budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u19	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, Minister of Finance. Dear colleagues, I am going in strict compliance with the Rules. Let's make a decision to continue the debate there, let's talk. So there's no problem. Minister of Finance of Ukraine Jaroshenko Fedir Alexiyovich, please. Five minutes, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u20	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2012 submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the main financial document of the country under which the country will live next year. Of course, the results achieved in 2011 and 2010 are encouraging to look to the future, but in the context of the decline in the world economy and the possible second wave of the global financial crisis, we must be balanced and optimal in approaching the 2012 budget. As part of the 2012 draft budget in the Supreme Council, Ukrainian experts from the Ministry of Finance took part in meetings of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular the Committee on Budget Affairs, according to the schedule of meetings of the working groups on the preliminary review of the draft State Budget Act 2012 on proposals by national deputies and committees. The head of the budget committee, Baranov Valerius Aleksiyovich, informed you of the substance of these proposals and amendments, as well as the amount of the proposals. At the same time, global market instability and debt crisis in the United States and individual EU countries have recently worsened. So when we're working on the second-reading budget, we're going to take into account the trends in the global economy. In addition, I would like to point out that the finalization of the State Budget for 2012 will take into account the changes made to the Budget Code and some other legislative acts of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 6 October this year, including the inclusion in the General Fund of the State Budget of Ukraine, of payments for the provision of administrative services. The continuation for 2012 of the existing order of recalculation of the income of the National Bank of Ukraine. Conducting a medical experiment in three areas. Over the next few weeks, we will work hard with you to improve the major assets of our nation. Joint and coordinated work on the 2012 budget should be constructive, and proposals are sound and financially sound. I hope for fruitful cooperation with the MPs, experts involved in the drafting of the law. Deeply convinced that budget policy will be a source of accelerated population growth next year, building the economic potential of our country. Ukraine's draft State Budget Act 2012 for second reading will be further developed by taking into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm counting on your understanding and your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u21	Please sign up for the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, sign up for a question before. Oh, they signed up. I'm sorry. Vladislav Lukyanov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u23	Dear Fedor Aleksevich! We have seen how difficult and difficult it has been to work towards a major economic document of the State, but we see that the proposed document, even in a situation where there are demonstrations with us in the more developed countries when social payments, pensions are falling, in Ukraine the draft budget proposes a 5 per cent increase in gross domestic product, entails an increase of 10 to 15 per cent of all social indicators, both wages and pensions. I wanted to ask you a question. In addition to an important cluster of social indicators, what indicators can still be taken into account for second reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u24	Thank you for asking. In addition to the social bloc, the second reading may include proposals by the people's deputies for further socio-economic development in our country. So when we worked with you on the committees, we did the right thing and carefully considered each proposal. And today, in the conclusions of the Committee on Budgets, it is also proposed that the draft State Budget Act 2012 be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u25	Alexander Steshenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u26	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask my colleague Andrija Mikhailovich Pavlovski to pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u27	Andrew Pavlovsky, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u28	Andrew Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Fathership”. Dear reporter, it is known that the social standards of the budget project for the following year are substantially and artificially underestimated. This leads to the fact that unemployment is social assistance, frozen pensions, wages, scholarships. And the minimum of living is calculated in the old-fashioned way, in the last century, the minimum of living. And it turns out that if you count for a living minimum, you have to consume 250 grams of potatoes, 100 grams of bread, 10 grams of pasta, 5 grams of Greek, 5 grams of sala and 25 grams of sausage. I'm not talking about food anymore. It offers to buy clothes once every three years. Do you think this norm is normal? Or maybe the Ministry at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u29	Thank you for asking. I would like to remind you, Mr. People's Members, once again that our country is in extremely difficult economic conditions and has a huge decline in its domestic gross product in 2009. But in spite of this, the President of Ukraine, the government and all of you, the people's deputies, have adopted the 2010 budget, which is aimed at improving social guarantees, the 2011 budget, it also aims to improve, there are significant changes. And I remind you that we have a 2012 budget project to raise exactly the minimum cost of living by 14 percent: in 2011 it will be 963 bracelets, in 2012 it will be 1098 bracelets. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u30	Glazonov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u31	Thank you. I have a question. We had a conversation with you just a minute ago. I'd like to stop by again about the construction of the Dnipropetrov Metro. There is a President's mandate on this matter. In 2015, the launching of the first line of the Dniprovsky Metro is under the authority of the government to provide guarantees for obtaining credit from the EBRD Bank. There is also a plan of action that has already been taken, and in October State guarantees must be given. Unfortunately, I didn't see it in the budget. Your answer is that everything is going to be taken into account, it's going to suit me, it's going to suit me personally, if that's really going to be the case. Why Am I Worried? Because it's already been ordered by the State Department of the Metro to be transferred to municipal property, and if these guarantees are not provided, I think that's practically going to be violated there. And the second question, this is about the same question, is that one of the guarantees of lending is co-financing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u32	Please complete your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u33	Giving credit guarantees is co-financing the project. I don't see him in my budget either. Because if there's no co-financing, they won't give credit. I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u34	Thank you for asking. What I'm saying is that the construction, the reconstruction of the metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk is an extremely important object, it's in the constant perspective of the government. And what I told you will be. We have financial resources to ensure timely financing of this facility. But given that the object has a very long time ago and has to make the right design decisions, so today all of these works go there, we can't clearly define what parameters should be there. But it will be funded, and by taking into account and cofinancing, all the tools that we have in our country, we will provide sufficient funding for this facility.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u35	Thank you, sit down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to invite you to the address of Jaremenko Alexandre Stepanovich of the House of Auditors of Ukraine. Five minutes, please, for your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with current legislation, the Court of Auditors carried out an analysis and analysis of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2012. The findings and proposals are submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine within the prescribed time limit. Taking into account the time limit, I will stop at only some of the risks posed in the bill and on the proposals that the Court of Auditors considers appropriate to take into account in its work. The analysis showed that the State Budget project for 2012 was developed on the basis of fairly optimistic macroeconomic indicators that put risks to its implementation. The bill is based on an increase in real gross domestic product higher than expected in the current year. However, given that the economy of Ukraine is an export dependent and the export component of GDP is steadily increasing, in the context of slowing the growth of the world's leading economies, in particular countries, Ukraine's main trading partners, the projected 5 per cent increase in real GDP raises some doubts. The planned inflation rate of 7.9 percent, the lowest in the last decade, is a major risk for the implementation of government budget expenditure. Risks of maintaining inflation at the projected government level are the established trends towards rising world prices for agricultural production and pre-primary, more than four times in the current year, rising prices for industrial producers compared to consumer prices. Substantial overrun of the projected level of inflation may lead to the need to redistribute expenditure in order to avoid a real reduction in social benefits from the state budget. Another risk is obtaining government loans, more than 40 percent from external sources. The possibility of obtaining external loans depends entirely on the state of the world’s financial market. We are now witnessing that, in the face of the instability of the world financial market, investors with a view to minimizing risks and avoiding economic losses are withdrawing capital from countries with economies in transition. The problems of government debt remain valid in recent years. As in the current year, public debt repayment and service costs will be high and will be the fifth part of the government budget in the coming year. The problem is also compounded by the fact that a part of a foreign currency government debt is a foreign currency, a foreign currency risk especially in the face of a trend towards a deterioration in the balance of payments due to a steady growing trade deficit. The problem of inter-budget relations remains unresolved. The draft State Budget Act 2012 does not provide for significant changes in budgetary policy regarding the formation of local budgets. As in the current year, inter-budget transfers from the state budget are expected to generate more than half of the local budget’s income. Allocation of compensation grants is provided to 93 percent of local budgets. This demonstrates the excessive centralization of budgetary resources at the state level and the urgency of further reforming the regional policy of the State. In the light of what has been said, the Court of Auditors proposes. First. Clarify the macroeconomic indicators taken into account in the formulation of the State budget and the main budget parameters. The other one. In view of the decline in the current year in the production volume of basic excise goods, the projected growth rate next year is 17 percent of the excise tax revenue. Third. Complete the reform of the central executive bodies, which are the budget managers necessary for the timely and full cost of the state budget. Four. Take a look at the distribution of public taxes and assemblies between government and local budgets in order to promote socio-economic development of regions by decentralization of budgetary resources. It is in these directions that the Court of Auditors is ready to cooperate with all the participants in the budget process to prepare the budget for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u37	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, let's make this happen in a way that there are no questions now, not foreseen, this is the information of the Court of Auditors. Dear colleagues, how would you react to such an offer if you gave the right to speak from the faction for up to 5 minutes and then speak to the national MPs? Three from the National Deputies. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions and the MPs, of course. Got it. And let's write it down, national MPs. Half an hour is enough for the people's deputies? Give me 45 minutes. Will that be enough? The factions and 45 for the national MPs. The correct 20 and 45 hours will be five, just fine. Names of the national MPs, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, I don't get it? Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, let's do this, we have a recurring problem of failure, if one side is recorded, and the other side is not recorded, and then the problem is. I'm asking you, let's start with the factions, please, dear colleagues. Andrey Pavlovski, Faction "BUT" - "Fatherhood." Please. Andrew Pavlovsky. Who will act? Mikola Tomenko. Stanislaw Zebrowski will be next. Please. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, I remember the presentation of the budget. And then I analyzed how the budget was addressed, not by the citizens of Ukraine, not by opposition, but by the heads of the district administrations appointed by the President of Ukraine, by the city heads, by the village and by the village. And the whole system of the local vertical system marked the government's project in terms of Russian non-normal language. But I'm curious that from the terms of Russian abnormal language, it changed to this document that we got. The general conclusion is very simple, we got the draft budget for the following year. A budget without society, a budget without regions and a budget without parliaments. What do I mean by these terms? The non-social budget does not include any proposal to reduce the cost of maintaining power by a single penny and does not include any proposal to increase social standards by a single penny. So this is where they talked about how people live in the crisis. I have a question: do we have a crisis? The government does not want to reduce the cost of its maintenance and does not want to insure the people who are in this crisis. Obviously it's a budget without Parliament. Why a Budget Without Parliament? I've been in Parliament since 2001 and I've seen for the first time a document that has rejected 99.9 proposals from deputies, 99.9 from the Party of Regions, the Block of Lithuania, the Communists. You were very happy when you changed the budget code. Here you go. There is no parliament now, and there are no national deputies. This project is a government project that hasn't changed on any page. I have a question: why are we bringing him into Parliament? Let two men in Minfin develop it and be accountable to the Ukrainian people. Why do you take responsibility for him? You're not involved in this budget, are you? On the second reading, MPs will have no right to influence him at all. Only on the Committee "under the watchful supervision of the government" as recorded in the Budget Code. It's a budget without regions. Because today what you've set up for areas and places is not even paying the salaries of education and health workers. Here, a colleague of Jojik brought this unique tablet, which speaks as power and the Party of Regions treats the regions. I want our listeners to hear this. There are numbers in the budget, like I said, that it's impossible to survive. And so a goodwill was shown and a subsidy of 692 million was added to all regions of Ukraine. How did they divide the subsidy? Donetsk region – almost 160 million, Lugansk region – almost 50 million. What about the average regions? Chernigivska – 13, Cherkaska – 13, Hersonska – 13, Poltavska – 11, of which is 10 to the famous city of Komsomolsk, well, it is poor, and Poltavščina is poor with one million. Ternopilska - 5, well, Western Ukraine has nothing to say here at all. In short, the approach is very clear. I was told that they had made decisions. Isn't that where people live? In Chernigovsky, Žitomirsky, or Vinnitsky? What do they not need to do with school repairs, education? What is the principle of how regions are treated in this budget? I was wondering what the situation was before winter. So the Poltava area that you gave a million dollars off your shoulders today is carrying vacations for two weeks because there's nothing to burn this year's school. There's nothing to burn in the Poltava region this financial year. Ask when a radical or non - radical crisis was carried for two weeks by school vacations in Ukraine. Today, wages delays are totally across Ukraine. You report that the crisis in the world is a crisis you're passing on to people and to average citizens. I want to say on behalf of the BUIT faction, that we are not ashamed because we have opposed the Budget Code and said that Parliament will become a hostage of the Budget Code. We were opposed to this principle of budget discussion. We are opposed to Parliament being transformed into a structure that covers the security, non-professionalism of the government, because here, the bans do not go to the government, not to the President, they go to parliament. And the parliamentary majority is also hostage to the government's unprofessional activities. So in general, we are today looking at the budget of a luxury life for power and the budget of survival for citizens and local councils. The future will not vote and will not be responsible for this budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u39	Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next will be by Yuri Baldiriev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u40	This document can be called differently, well, it's probably a fantasy of some kind, not a budget, not a financial constitution. Dear colleagues, see when there were about a third of the deputies when the budget was still under consideration, not even from the opposition, but from the authorities. Look at how many cameras on the balcony today to figure out where the country is going to live for a year. This means that as of today Parliament has no relation to the budget of this, it has no relation to the financial indicators. The government took responsibility. But can these budgetary conclusions be accepted? Of course, the budget committee in the groups worked, but when we talked about it in general, something like this was happening. Reasonable things are written in these budget conclusions, but can this budget ever be corrected? Sadly, no. Let's start with macros. Today, 5 percent. IMF, the World Bank says, "3 and a half percent will be as high as possible." Can we talk about inflation today about about 8 percent? No, it's not. Because this year, thanks to the harvest, Bozoko helped, gave us the weather, we have a drop in food prices. Of course, this inflation will not be within 8 percent. Can we say that we're going to have an 8.1 course in this box? No! No! The IMF still doesn't give money this year. And with that kind of policy next year, it won't give money. Portfolio investors have already fled, real investors are not going to Ukraine! And that's why you can't keep this course. What does that mean? This means that the income portion of the budget is not going to be the same as recorded. That's actually why it's the oven that you need to dance to. This means that there will be no such income. Now let's look at the cost. What have they done by means of the new Code of Budgets and the so - called administrative reform? Skumkali, grouped all the programs. Now there's the chief manager of level one, level two, and so on. Today, if a budget was previously budgeted in a direction, in a position, everything is grumbled. In fact, we, Minfine and the Cabinet of Ministers, have received a serious lever of manual management of all state finances. In fact, it is impossible to track how money is allocated, how money is distributed, and how money is distributed. It's actually the manual administration of Minfin and Kabmin, all of the state's finances. This will lead to the fact that not only does the Supreme Council not take part in the development, but it will significantly reduce the control of the Supreme Council over the allocation of financial resources. There was much talk of local self - government. For 25 billion dollars, no money has been allocated for delegated powers. Not to mention the need for socio-economic development. That is, regions will not be able to finance what the State is obliged to finance. This means that they have to finance from the second basket instead of socio-economic development delegated by the state of authority. This means that not only will schools be repaired by subsidies but local budgets will make money. Because it takes schools to work, hospitals to heat up, and so on and so forth. Social expenditure issues. Many advertised by nearly 25 percent are expected to receive an increase in the salaries of budget workers. Is there such a thing? There's no such thing. It's actually going to be about 13 percent of the wage increase in education, with inflation at least 12 percent, we're going to get a drop in the population's income. This is because the global crisis and the growth in the dollar rate will accelerate significantly, accelerate the cost of living at a minimum. The increase in pensions, the minimum wage, is predicted to be less than this year’s inflationary component. Dear friends, I understand that there are majority and there are votes, and you are voting for this budget. If you lived in another country, you would have the right to do so. You, your children, your neighbors live in this country. Let's send it together for the re-reading of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Budget Committee of the real budget so that we can accept it for the people and not understand who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u41	Vladislav Lukyanov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u42	Dear citizens of Ukraine! We've just heard a lot of different thoughts. There were thoughts that reflected the real situation, and there were quite a lot of distorted thoughts. In order to give just one example of what the Eastern regions say are now eating and that there is no equal attitude towards different regions. More than a billion dollars were removed from the budget of Donetska this year, and this money has been redistributed throughout Ukraine. That is, there is no reason to say that there is an unequal attitude. But I'm going to try to analyze, in this fairly brief time, the budget as a whole. First of all, you don't have to forget that there's a crisis in the world. And we see the situation in the countries of the European Union, in the United States, and we see that those steps on spending cuts, on social costs, on wage cuts, on pensions, on scholarships are being implemented in European countries. In Ukraine we have a completely different picture. We see that the 2012 budget is increasing by 41 billion dollars in expenditure -- that's the government's achievement in a situation where we see that the crisis of the world has not gone away. The crisis is taking place in many countries that are neighbors of Ukraine. But even in this situation, we increase local budget expenditure by 116 percent, we increase government budget expenditure to 110 percent. Next. I can't help but say about the external debt that was left of the last team. This year alone, we're spending 92 billion to pay off last year's debt. The same is true for the following year. But we can see that on this background is the rise in the gross domestic product of the state. And next year we expect the Ukrainian economy to increase to one and a half trillion dollars, which is 16.6 percent of nominal GDP. On this account, we're increasing social standards. The following year, an average of 15 percent, there is an increase in minimum pensions, minimum wages, and an increase in citizens’ income. What's very important about this is that we're spending 15 percent of our local budgets on this. That is, the criticism that is now echoing needs to be compared to the situation of the previous and previous years. We see that in 2009, our predecessors cut salaries, cut social costs, there was no funding, there was no funding for government funds. Today the funding of the School Bus programs is increasing, spending on printing the Ukrainian book is increasing, funding for the production of textbooks for schools is increasing. And we see that there's a row and a row and a series of increases. More than 700 million dollars are being spent on medical financing, and more than 700 million dollars are being spent on hospital equipment. And this is only done in one current year. We see that there are clear positive changes. But in addition, I would like to highlight another very important issue. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the majority of parliament, the President's Administration agreed for the first time to cut the costs of maintaining the MP's benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u43	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u44	I want to say, when this question was put to the Committee on Budget Affairs, we didn't get any vote in favour of the opposition, and nine votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u45	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist faction. The next one will be from the MP's "Reforms for the Future" group. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Company faction, I propose some conclusions on the proposed budget project. First. The national threat is that Ukraine's budget is being reviewed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine only with the approval of the International Monetary Fund. And that means that in all of Ukraine's years of independence -- by the way, orange -- it's touching you, first of all, we've lost the signs of national independence. It's different. That's about GDP growth. We have to make a terrible conclusion with you: GDP growth is happening in a monetary way, not in a physical way. And that shows that inflation and other processes are destroying the economy, and there is no Ukrainian economy, because scientists have come to a terrible conclusion for us: the Ukrainian market is hit by foreign production and the domestic economy has lost its domestic market. Third. The budgetary conclusions presented today by the Supreme Council for the draft State Budget Act, unfortunately, are based on the requirements of this year's Memorandum of the International Monetary Fund. In implementing IMF directives, Ukraine will never be able to protect a national producer, change the inefficient structure of the economy, and guarantee the social rights of citizens. This has already led to a colossal decline in production and capture, as I said, of the internal market by foreign production. In the face of the projected increase in the global crisis for Ukraine, the decline in the role of the state, and this budget once again shows that the state has ceased to run the economy. Constant price increases, reduced social benefits due to the cancellation of benefits, unsuspecting privatization, optimizing the number of educational and health institutions will necessarily lead to the ultimate destruction of our nation’s economic sovereignty and to the destruction of the country’s present social potential. One of the most important things the faction of the Company warns about is the systematic effort of the government to adopt changes to legislation on the issue of the provision of state social guarantees to low-income and tax-based populations. This is about Bill 9127, which, contrary to article 22 of the Constitution, deprives us of the benefits of many categories of our citizens. Project 9127 proposals listed in the Transitional Positions include the cancellation of specific social guarantees. These are discounts for housing and utility services in the amount of money, allowances, etc. for citizens affected by the Chernobyl accident, veterans of war and labour, children of war, victims of Nazi persecution, members of the police and prosecutors of the State Fire Service, medical workers and cultural workers, miners and others who are secured by special laws. Thirdly, it points to the fact that once again, at the beginning of the review of the State Budget, the procedure for determining the size of the subsistence minimum has not been reviewed. And that also indicates that this position needs to be reviewed urgently. Fourthly, as a result of the establishment of low national social standards, the proportion of the poor under the national criteria in the following year, in line with the social development programme mentioned in the programme, will virtually not decrease and exceed a quarter of the country's population, i.e. it poses a very serious threat both to social issues and to the life of our people in general. In addition, the practice of setting a subsistence minimum for the purpose of granting assistance under the State Social Assistance Act has been continued for 2012 as a percentage of the subsistence minimum for the main social and demographic groups. Such examples can be cited in many ways, as evidenced by the fact that such a law in Ukraine’s budget for the following year cannot meet the demands of the people of Ukraine. What I'd like to draw attention to again, dear comrades. And the budget analysis just shows that we need to make radical conclusions. First, to build an anti-crisis budget, not on the interests of oligarchic groups and regional elites, who divide the budget for their own benefit. Second, the real struggle against the shadow economy. We're talking here today from the rostrum that's increasing population investment. Where do they come from? Salaries don't pay, they go up! The shadow economy is destroying Ukraine's national economy today. Next. It's considered necessary, and I'm convinced of this, to use weights such as the introduction of a state monopoly, and again, I'm paying attention to vodka and tobacco is 30 percent minimum of the government budget; it's a luxury tax, it's a credit policy of 3 and 5 percent to support a domestic producer; it's a return to the market for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u47	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u48	The return of the Ukrainian market to the Ukrainian producer, a small and medium-sized business, because we will protect ourselves from another foreign product that we can produce here in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u49	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Peter Melnik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u50	Honorable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens! On behalf of the parliamentary group Reforms for the Future, let me draw a few conclusions on the 2012 State Budget indicators. There are positives, there are negatives. The first is positives. We refer to the system’s approach to the formation of the State Budget and the timeliness of its consideration. The other one. We're positive for things like this, that in the formation of the State Budget, the first active method of budgeting takes into account the methodology of the project management. Third. The state budget is as real as possible, considering those that were floating in every family in Soviet times: "Hold your legs in your clothes." There's nothing else in this budget. Yeah, it's heavy, but it's as real as possible. As for the positives, we can also take the indicators that for the first time, perhaps in Ukrainian reality. The State Budget Act does not modify tax and other legislation. Second, the minimum wage increase and the minimum wage for working persons are at 14 percent, the first to be paid after 2009. I'd like to remind you, in 2009, this figure was 3 percent, in 2010, 4.7, in 2011 it was 8.4. By the end of the year, the minimum wage will be 1,134 bracelets and the average minimum wage will be 3.6 percent. We also see a positive increase in social benefits for families with children, low-income families, disabled children, and disabled children. The total corresponding State budget subsidy to local budgets will increase by 14.4 percent, or 30.2 billion dollars. I would like to pay attention to future mothers or those who plan to increase the total number of members of their family. The first child is 28 000 830, the second child is 57.660, and the third child is 115 000 320. We are also encouraged by the fact that the amount of social assistance in children's homes of family type and foster families, according to the principle of money for children from 6 years of age, has increased to 1902. And for children between 6 and 18 years of age, up to 2,354 dollars. We also see a 10 percent increase in the minimum wage on average. But there's a negative. We're referring to them, first of all, it's kind of strange to see inflation rates. No international institution suggests that next year’s inflation rate will be 7.9 percent. The real level of inflation estimated by international experts will be between 10 and 12 percent, projected in relation to global and domestic Ukrainian trends, increased energy costs, higher housing and utility tariffs, and so on. So the future reliable forecast is 11 percent. If you analyze the social component of the budget, you can see that in 2012 the minimum wage and minimum wage, taking into account the maximum inflation, will only increase within the government's forecast level of inflation. What it will mean in principle is the following in the event of the arrival of such a fact that the least protected social strata of the population will actually end up in even greater poverty. It is also surprising that the government deficit, which has been approved at 24, 1 billion dollars and will be covered by an increase in government debt, the total national currency, will reach 415,6 billion dollars, which is equivalent to 27.5 percent of GDP. In 2012, only 30 billion dollars are available for the maintenance of the holding. This is negative. The MP's Reforms for the Future will determine their position in the vote. But we do see another positive. If the previous findings were to link this law with Bill 9127, amended by National MP 103 of Melnik, I would like to remind you that this amendment has not been taken into account and is rejected and, in principle, a violation of the 16 categories of citizens and their rights will not take place in this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u51	Thank you, too. Melnik Peter, faction of the Party of the Regions. The miller is given the right to Mironenko's speech. Then you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u52	Peter Melnik, Party of Regions. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that this bill is designed on the basis of predictive macro indicators based on a pessimistic scenario that provides reasonable estimates of economic development next year, taking into account the existence of external risks of instability in international financial markets. In the preparation of the draft budget, the government took into account most of the budget policy guidelines for 2012 approved by the Supreme Council on 13 May of the current year. First of all, the deficit in the State Budget project is 24.1 billion dollars or 1.6 percent of gross domestic product, which is significantly less than the planned figure of 11.2 billion dollars this year. A further reduction of government debt to 27.6 percent of domestic gross product compared to 29.1 percent of GDP in 2011 and the medium-term perspective was appropriate. This indicates the balance of government debt management policies and the sustainability of public finances. The bill proposes to raise basic social standards and guarantees, namely: a subsistence minimum of 14.9 per cent, a minimum wage of 12.9 per cent, a minimum pension of 10.5 per cent next December against December of this year. This increase is higher than the projected inflation rate of 7.9 percent, which is expected to contribute to real population growth. Regional policy will be geared towards rationalizing the relationship of the centre-region, maximizing the development and exploitation of the region's own economic potential and increasing the level of financial independence of local governments. In 2012, local budgets are expected to increase by 45.6 percent, to 45.6 percent. The total amount of local budgets for 2012 will be 194.7 billion dollars, 29.9 billion dollars or 18.1 percent more than the 2011 plan. The amount of expenditure taken into account in determining inter-budget transfers is 116.1 billion dollars, 19.4 billion dollars more than or 20.1 per cent of the 2011 plan, more than 50 per cent of which will be devoted to education, 58.6 billion dollars and 39.5 billion to health care. In 2012, there will be continued State support to the regions to ensure favourable conditions for local economic growth, the resolution of integrated innovation and investment programmes for the development of regions, the regional development measures envisaged by the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the relevant councils of the areas. In order to balance public and regional interests towards the development priorities of the territories, the money in 2012 will be the creation of the State Regional Development Fund at the initiative of President Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic. The overall resource for investment development is increased by 7.6 billion dollars and will amount to 18.2 billion dollars in 2012. The State Budget Project 2012 envisions strong support for the coal sector. In this way, budget programs are expected to target 9.5 billion dollars. The bill proposes to preserve and deepen the trend towards concentration of state support for the development and development of large-scale, high-tech agricultural production, its technical modernisation through both production and agricultural production processes; the formation of a civilised agricultural market; and the strengthening of food security on this basis. In particular, only the direct cost of the budget for modern high - tech animal production will amount to 1.3 billion dollars. There will be no incentive to build modern animal complexes by partially compensating them for 7.7 billion dollars. For the first time in recent years, the amount of land reform expenditure projected at 0.6 billion dollars has been significantly increased. This budget support, taking into account the conservation of the agricultural tax regime, will enable practical steps to be taken to build a competitive agricultural sector in the internal and external markets, which will contribute to the restoration of the Ukrainian village, alongside the existing state support for social development. In addition, the State Budget project optimizes the number of budget programs by enlarging them, reducing them by a total of more than 300. In the process of dealing with the relevant issues, additional information was received on the justifications and calculations of individual government budget indicators for 2012. As a result of the committee’s work, balanced proposals for the bill were formed. To sum up, I would like to support the prepared draft Supreme Council Regulation on Conclusions and Proposals for a draft State Budget Act for Ukraine for 2012 and to adopt as a whole a regulation. The government should continue to prepare the draft for second reading by considering the proposals made by the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u53	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u54	That's the one you're being handed out to you. And within two weeks, he's due to submit to the Supreme Council a revised bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u55	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Eugene Kirilchuk, will you be speaking?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u56	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u57	Ivan Kirilenko. Kirilo Kulikov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, our faction will not vote for this budget in the first reading. It's not enough that we didn't take into account any of our amendments that we made in the previous stages, so we can tell by what we've just been given, conclusion one, it matches the conclusion of the Court of Auditors -- it's a document, it's an approach, it's a figure, it's an indicator of yesterday. Unfortunately, the country can't handle it. It may be good for someone, but not for the country, not for her society, not for her people. Why don't we vote for the next reason. Where's the money? It's always a matter of when the cost comes down. Dear colleagues, how many times can you speak from this rostrum? And this year, and the following year, the country will quietly, without paying taxes, contributions to the Pension Fund and other social funds will run away about $30 billion. Count it to the bracelet and the rate is 250 billion dollars, which is almost equal to the state budget. How much you can ask that question! No one uses this lasagna under these conditions. Well, you want to take out, but at least pay this tax and income tax. Pay 40-50 billion, take God with you. Why are you taking her? It's your capital. It's your business. You said it was a stable situation. Why is it being exported? Get out! Invest in other countries. Ask on your knees at the IMF for this miserable $1.50 billion. It's a smell of tobacco compared to what's being exported. Get out! Pay 50 billion in the budget. This money with interest is enough to close up the problems of the Pension Fund, ongoing medicine, barely Jewish education, sorry for the arbitrary abandonment of local self - government. Next. For small businesses, his support was voted in the morning, not for support for destruction. Friends, in the European Union, why do many countries live without even having their own resources? Microenterprise, we don't even have the idea of it -- it's when less than 10 people and ox production, think about it, 2 million euros, that's 22 million dollars. A small business is less than 50 workers and 120 million dollars. But we don't have big businesses like this. That's why people live a lot. We've got monopolizations, big business and super big business. People are good, this country will never be rich. And look again at the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, what we're talking about right now, science, investment, innovation -- zero without a stick. You can't vote for a budget like this. To re-read, to add even what is needed to be removed from the offshore or not, and to write a realistic budget. You said that the internal market is shaped by a rich citizen, a rich consumer. Where is he? When you write it yourself, 10 percent of poverty will go up. Disgusting!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u59	Kirilo Kulikov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Alexander Steshenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u60	Thank you very much. I'm very worried, but I'll try to be calm. I want to start with that. Let's not discuss the budget, let's just count all the money into Switzerland right now. Well, that'll be easier. And fairer and simpler. We understand that. After that budget, we'll still deal with these ghosts. But it'll be easier now not to make artificial capacitances to transfer these funds. Dear colleagues, what's happening to the country's budget today, I can't say that. This is the abuse of the people living in this country. And that's what you're dividing. When we worked with you in the task force, the head of the budget concluded that there was chaos. There has been an appeal to the President, but we will vote for it. I mean, first of all, dear colleagues, you don't respect your government. Your government has adopted the 2012 Social and Economic Development Programme and the 2013-2014 Forecasts. Why does this budget not take into account any of the figures in this program? I beg you, fellow members of the Budget Committee, do you not respect the First Vice Prime Minister who prepared this program? Another question. We have adopted a budget strategy with you in May this year, the main budget indicators, the 2012 budget policy. Why was no question of this project voted by the majority of you in this budget?Oh, my God! Why is there no priority in this budget for the country’s development? It's not a pessimistic budget. It's a crisis budget, an apocalypse. Thank you very much. I want to say again, it's very hard for me to say that word, but it's even harder for people to bear what's going on today. The fact that you have reduced the benefits to members of the Supreme Council makes up only one tenth of the country’s gross domestic product! And what you steal every time, every time you redistribute this budget, is millions and billions! I want to remind you one last time. When Kravchenko's colleague was brought in for payment. Ten million. No funds were found for this decision. But you found 40 million immediately. Tell me, please, if you don't have 10, there's 40. The amount of the refund? Please, today. I thank you very much. Good luck.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u61	Olga Bodnar, the right to speak is handed over by colleague Steshenko, faction of "BUT - "The Fatherland." The next one will be by Mustafa Jemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u62	Good evening, dear fellows! Dear audiences and listeners! You know, for the night such terrible things, it's probably the only thing Ukraine loves. When such nightmares are gone and we want to hear about how we are going to die here in the whole country. I'm representing a committee on local self-government and state-owned construction. So my amendments, which were included in this table, directly apply to all Ukrainian citizens. So I hope that the rest of the cameras that are here can still tell our citizens what's going to happen to them right now. Let's start with the first one. In line with part five of article 108 of the Code of Budgets, an allowance should be included in the budget to determine the annual estimated amount of tax revenue. Excise tax companies in the local budget. This amendment was rejected. What's that really gonna mean? It's actually going to mean the manual mode: "however I want it, whether I want it or not," to whoever I want it to be -- to give money to who I don't want it to be -- to raise a bill. You, the local budgets, will not have all the citizens, as appropriate, without teeth, but your pants will lose the last. Let's move on. We're living here, we're talking a lot there, and we're telling you that we have a lot of citizens -- I'm sure they do. Let's see what's happening now. Vinnitsky, Dnipropetrovska, Donetsk, Kyiv region -- they were subjected to a very scary thing called "medical experiment". Medicine has been completely destroyed throughout the country, and in these areas it does not exist as a class. The FAPs and them have ceased to exist. There's nothing to live for. The larger areas, where more people are. Maybe that's the logic of the present power, but I think that's the only way we're going to solve this is if it's a pension fund issue. So in order to pay people for these things, in these areas of medicine, there's no money and there's not going to be, because it's not going to be in this budget. Next. In article 22, I suggested that the funding of the State Regional Development Fund should be removed from the general fund of the State. Why did I ask you to do that? Because the current budget, it turns out, wants to account for the benefits of privatization. Show me a naive person who believes that privatization will give us the opportunity to get it. Impossible! And I'll tell you something like that. Our committee has tabled an amendment concerning the need for delegated authority on the ground to be financially supported by the State budget and, in the first place, it is likely that citizens will be very interested in the fact that budgeters will not be paid at the place of payment. This budget didn't even count what it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u63	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u64	From January 1, 2012, the minimum wage will be raised, the EU tariff level will be raised, from 773 bracelets to 1,073 bracelets, even if this figure is not included in the budget. You know, the hand won't vote for the death of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u65	Thank you. Mustapha Jemilev, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u66	Honorable Volodymira Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is known to have recognized not only the illegal and criminal mass deportations of peoples and national minorities in the Soviet Union but also the obligation to provide appropriate assistance in restoring and restoring their rights. But it seems that neither the requirements of its own legislation nor the rules of international agreements that the State is bound to do, are binding on the Cabinet of Ministers of our country. Today, there are more than 300 new returnees in Crimea, the vast majority of whom lack basic living conditions: no water supply, no roads, no schools, no medical supplies, not to mention gas or anything else. In these settlements, tens of thousands of returnees live more faithfully. In previous years, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved five - year programs to equip people who had been deported on a national basis and were now returning to their homeland, according to which funds for return and maintenance were provided for each year in the national budget of Ukraine. And although not all that was planned was done by power, it was still a movement forward. So for your famous government program for the 2005-1010 deportees, it was underfunded by 179 million dollars, that is, 50 percent. Presidential decree 615 from 14 May 2010 commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine until 20 December last year to approve the Programme for Deportees for 11-15 years to be funded annually. Such a program is not approved by the government of Ukraine today. Now, if you want to get out of the Ukrainian State Budget 2012 project. I decided to relieve myself in general of any obligation to equip deported persons. Yes, the project provides 25 million dollars for everything related to deportees. What about the tens of thousands of other families that have been trying for decades? The arrangements and the three hundred settlements I've been pointing out.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u67	Microphone. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u68	The State Budget project for 2012 to the "Financing of the State Budget" section was proposed by me and the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dajic, as head of the Crimea Temporary Commission, to increase the funding of resettlement and deportment measures to 142 million dollars. A colleague of Baranov, head of the State Commission of the Supreme Council, also offered 76 million, at least 76 million. But it turned out to be useless, all the instructions, the proposals were rejected, and there was only 25 million left in the project. To be honest, this attitude of Ukraine in relation to such a painful problem as the return of the deported people is accepted as outright abuse of human beings and common sense. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support the first reading of the proposals of the People's Deputies, as well as my proposals, and to increase the scope of the deportees to 142 million dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u69	Thank you, too. Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Grigory Kaletnik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u70	Dear friends! We're talking about this budget, and in fact, we're not speaking at all about the conclusions of the budget committee on this point. We don't answer the basic questions, but in fact, how much this budget is based and how much it can be implemented and on which philosophy this budget is built and this economic and social policy for which. In fact, it's designed to serve. The Committee on Budgets did not do so at all. In general, I want to say that the conclusions of the budget committee, like the working group, do not withstand any criticism, but focus first on the development of the budget itself. We're told there's going to be a big crisis. We're told that there's no money and so on. But we're not told at all that if you take the gross national product and you count the percentage that this budget makes up, it's going down over the last four years: in 2010, less, in 2011, less, by 2012. [[since 2009]] From 33 percent, we fell to 28 percent. This means that more and more money is being given to oligarchs, and less and less money is being allocated to social needs through the budget. Moreover, even the money that is distributed through the budget is largely based on taxes that citizens pay. Over the same four years, from 2009 to 2012, we see that the share of excise duty in the budget is increasing, the share of the income tax from citizens is decreasing, the share of VAT is in place, and the share of such corporate tax as the income tax is decreasing. So the budget is getting more and more funded by ordinary citizens. What's more, if we look at where this money goes, even on macroeconomic indicators, we're going to see that more and more money is going centralized into the State budget, and less and less money is going to the local budgets, because their share in the total budget, and in the gross national product, is shrinking dramatically. So, dear friends, we can come to a conclusion that unfortunately did not make a budget committee because it is dominated by the Party of Regions recently that it is an anti-national budget, an anti-Ukraine budget, an anti-government budget and absolutely not a scientific budget. This is a budget created solely for the interests of the great capital, so we cannot vote for it in any way, nor can we vote for it in the conclusions of the budget committee that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u71	Thank you. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u73	The national deputy Kaletnik has the right to speak. A colleague of Horbatuk is giving him his time to perform. So 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected TV and radio listeners! Such a violent beginning today of the budget discussion highlights once again and shows that all the budgets of all the years in our country have been very difficult, it's an important financial constitution for the country, and it's never painless, it's never easy. Well, maybe only in the years after the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovich stayed on treasury accounts for 25 to 30 billion dollars, for which the opposition criticized and then easily separated, did it make it easier to fulfil any social obligations of the new government. We at the Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations have considered quite carefully the part of this financial document financed by the agro-industry complex of the state, and I would like to point out the following on behalf of the committee. If you look at the figures, they're pretty optimistic in this project, they're nice: 37 percent increase in the financing of the agricultural sector of the economy. But I want to go to the government. Dear government officials, we have seen that, unfortunately, this is not happening because of the real increase in the financing of the agricultural sector, but because of the membership of the Ministry of the APC of New Institutions, such as the State Agency for Land Resources with its budget of 1.1 billion dollars, the State Agency for Forest Resources, the National Stock Exchange Company, the State Agricultural Inspections. So, of course, the actual increase is slightly smaller, and it's up to 100 million dollars. We would like to draw your attention to the substantial increase in expenditure under the government food reserve fund, 7.2 billion dollars. Of course, it's a pleasure that we're going to have some opportunity to make more purchases of agricultural products than producers, but we, agrarians, don't understand why these costs are for agriculture. But let's say that these functions are not inherent functions of agriculture. These functions are more like the former consumer co-operation, these are the functions of the State Reserve, they're not the costs that have to be accounted for in agriculture. And so I would like this to be taken into account, and so either then the functional responsibilities should be changed, or the agrarian fund should receive these funds as a special task of the State for various interventions, to maintain price policies in the state as a whole, but not to develop agriculture in Ukraine. The committee also drew attention to the need to allocate funds to support farming under programme 2801-230. I would also like here to confirm the beginning of my statement that this program, honourable colleagues, was lost by the government in 2009. So those who are so brilliantly addressing farmers today, calling them to come, have to look into the truth and say that in 2009 we cancelled the farm support program. I think today's government is going to take this back and restore it, like many other programs that have been lost in the past few years. I can also remind them not to be my loudspeaker, but I want to say that we all have a pretty good memory, and I can remind you of how social programs for the gasification of villages were canceled. Do we not remember who spoke from this rostrum and said that the gasification of the villages is unpredictable for Ukraine, it is better to electrify them. The truth was not electrified, although these words became year - round from this rostrum. Because really at that elevation, which we didn't see or know about at the time, which were then agreements in Moscow, they're really putting gasification on the line today that's not interesting. But who knew what it was like to call off the social program of salt gasification. So there is a need today, of course, from the deep crisis phenomena of today's government to look for the opportunity and find these funds to restore social programs and also to develop programs for our economic development. And I think that as soon as we get together, we're going to leave the unworthy practice of criticizing and paying attention to ourselves, that we are here for you, stripping off the corner, as soon as we put our sleeves together into our economy, that needs everyone's mind and shoulders today, and not the soles, I think we can really, really fill the income part of the budget, with which we can then together make those social promises that today require our good and patient citizens of Ukraine who are expecting us and who expect us to make effective decisions. Therefore, drawing attention to the critical comments I have made on behalf of both the Committee and the previous speakers, I would like to ask the government and the Committee of Budgets to take into account the amendments that are going on today from the National Deputies to the second reading of the budget of Ukraine, and to take account of this budget, in fact, to accept and improve the financial situation in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u75	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Sergey Sobolev is going to perform, isn't he? Please, Sergey Sobolev. Then Lukyanov will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to when this State budget was being discussed in terms of when the report by the Head of the Committee of Budgets was not a report about the urgent need to change the budget, but was a praise to an active government. For what? And now I'm picking up today's document that was handed out by the House of Accounts. I am very grateful to the representatives of the Court of Auditors. I'm only quoting six theses. Thesis first. The specific provisions of the State Budget project do not correspond to the Budget Code and other legislative acts. Here's the budget reform you've been doing. Another thesis. Contrary to the requirements of the Budget Code and other legislative and regulatory acts, the draft State Budget Act proposes to include payments to the general fund that are targeted. But when was it, Mr. Finance Minister, that at the expense of the budget's accumulated income you would include in the income section the funds that are just being designed and which are not required? And the Court of Auditors directly lists as at least 12 items that you've included by income that can't be included in the main body of the budget. The third point. A bill prepared by the Ministry of Finance is actually prepared without the National Bank's forecast on monetary policy. Think about it. The monetary policy should have been the National Bank as a project printed by September 15th. She's gone. There's no prognosis, and the Ministry of Finance is making brilliant predictions without the National Bank's conclusions. Because we see it here? National currency rate 8.1 You will still be attached to the ruble in the gas calculations, and we will see what will then be the rate of the money in terms of solid currencies. These are your reforms. Four. "The budget policy guidelines proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers are in fact missing the main directions that you have adopted here as a law, the key budget policy planning by 2014, no programme is included. Fifth. That's the most interesting part, and I'd like to wrap it up. Mr. Melnik, who spoke from the faction of the Regions, introduced an article in the draft budget that suggested that all the benefits that the Ministry of Finance still had in mind would be set up by the Cabinet of Ministers. At any time, this article will appear in this room. Here's a draft budget that we're asked to approve. We will never vote for it, and our faction is firm against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u77	Katerina Lukjanova refers to Arsenija Yatsenyuk, the faction “Our Ukrainian People’s Self - Defense. ” Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with a positive. The opposition demanded, first, that the cost of the government apparatus be reduced by 50 percent of the total car park of government authorities. The other one. The opposition demanded that all the state residences that were or did not live in the Ukrainian government be sold. Third. The opposition demanded that the Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" be amended and that MPs and aid officials be deprived of the opportunity to save billions of money. That's the only thing that's taken into account today by the vast majority that's included in the draft decree. And that's what I'd like to stop at separately. We demand that the government take into account the requirements of the opposition to reduce all the costs of state administrations, as supported by the profiling committee. However, the basic issues that we have considered have never been solved. I'll start with base. There cannot be a rich government in a poor country, but in Ukraine it is. We're demanding a reduction of 11 billion dollars for all government agencies, I'm talking about the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and lowering it to the 2009 level. This is out of the question. The other one. If you count all the costs of government authorities and add them to the costs that apply to every Ukrainian, that's education, that's science, and that's medicine. It's education and science that's worth less for today's government than for the administration of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers. Third. Today, under pressure from BUT and opposition, a law was passed that deprived 16 categories of Ukrainians of various forms of aid. But look at the draft State Budget Act, and the arsonists have gone crazy again. Because there are not even half of the costs that cover all social benefits for 16 categories of citizens. Next. If you look at the structure of the budget, it's a classic "police" budget. And it's not just "police," because it's the government that's holding on to the bayonets. This is also the pre-election budget of the Party of Regions, the money goes only where it is, and more precisely where a few percent of the support of the Party of Regions remains. The next is about debts. I have a question for the Ministry of Finance and the Minister himself. You've already made $60 billion in government debt and $130 billion in gross debt in the country. Who's going to give it back? Ukrainians, each of whom today owed more than 3,000 dollars? You took it, you gave it to me! The budget is returned, processed and made new budget!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u79	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, Alexander Stoyan, please perform. The next one will be Eugene Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, as a member of the Social Policy Committee, I was interested in the social component of the budget. I want to make it clear that in the proposed budget, for the first time, I emphasize that for the first time, the social parameters are as close as possible to the minimum of living. Let me show you three facts. The first is the minimum wage. I underline, over the years of independence, in this budget for the first time, that the minimum wage would be 100 percent equivalent to the minimum wage for a working person. When we talk about the amount, it means that over the next year, it will be viewed 4 times and will be in December of the following year, 1,134 bracelets. The pensions that we're talking about right now are the second ingredient and very important social ones. Let me remind you, in 2009, for your government, Yulia Timoshenko, the minimum pension was 498 dollars. For the following year, the minimum pension is proposed to build 884 bracelets, and will be doubled. And when we're being accused of promising a thousand, they don't. What I'm saying is that a gradual increase in the pension will help because, I'm sure, in the 2013 budget, the minimum pension will be at least a thousand dollars. The third position is the budget area. For some reason, it is not said that in 2009, once again, under the government of Tymoshenko, the budget area was frozen. Now I'm calling the numbers that we're going to do. In 2012, the teacher's salary will increase by 600 dollars per month, I emphasize, not in a year, 600 dollars and will cost more than three thousand dollars per month. The salary of a qualified doctor will increase by 800 dollars, and it will also cost 3,000,500 dollars. So we see, I don't talk about other parameters anymore, about what's being looked at to increase payments to mothers and children in child care and other social settings. But what must we do, and why do we criticize the government? Dear government officials, you've calculated the social parameters on an old living minimum. It's not your fault, because this old living minimum has been running since 2001, 10 years ago. You have to immediately count the cost of living at a minimum, you have proposals on the table, you have to confirm this year, and you have to look at new social settings from July, and they're definitely going to increase by 20 to 30 percent. In general, we support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u81	Eugene Kzarykov. Alla Alexandrovska, please, the Communist faction. Calchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u82	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. First of all, I would like to address the representatives of the faction of the Party of the Regions in this Hall and those deputies who are going to vote in favour of the draft regulation that we are proposing today. You think about what you're going to vote for. In the budget committee in which I work as Secretary, the majority of the members of the Committee are also representatives of the Party of the Regions. In fact, their vote on the budget committee had taken the decision that was currently being discussed in the Hall. Think about what you are going to vote for if the proposed document states that we are with you, the Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers ask for a second reading of the situation of the world economy, to draw conclusions on the risks and, if necessary, to change the macro indicators proposed by the draft State Budget Act. This means that the Committee on Budgets and now the Hall recognizes that the development that is at hand does not correspond to what is happening in the world, it needs to be changed. This means that in two weeks we will receive a new draft law on the State budget. Thus, the Party of the Regions gives a negative assessment of the draft State Budget Act. It is further stated that the question of how the debt of utilities will be repaid if tariffs do not cover the cost of the service. Again, the Government is invited to think about it. What if there's a law that says that if the tariff doesn't cover the costs, there should be money in the budget. And in the budget, it's zero for that. This means that the Party of the Regions supports the idea of raising tariffs. Because if there is no compensation for this difference in the money budget, then the money will be removed from the pocket of the people of Ukraine. Why don't you say you're going to vote for it. Why don't you say that the draft State Budget Act itself has been drafted completely without the need to develop scientifically sound, so-called State standards. What State standards? It's a living minimum. Please open the annexes to the Gosbudget Act, where the subsistence minimum is justified. It's just a half-page text. And all the justification is that we take the 2011 subsistence minimum, take inflation into account, and that's all the justification. Respected, but not proponentous, development of a serious document, which is the State Budget Act. In fact, you leave people on their own with low wages, low pensions, which do not provide a living minimum that prevents people from eating, living and living properly with their children. Such a draft law could not be voted on. And you're talking about it yourself in the conclusions that we've been given to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u83	People's Deputy Calchenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Last performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u84	Calchenko, Fatherland, Kirovgradina. Many examples of macroindicators have been cited here today. And what I'd like to say is, look to the government, and what does today's budget have to do with the territories? First of all, would you like to say, for, in Kirovgrad? I'm referring to President Yanukovic's pre-election visit to Kirovograd. He's coming to Alexandria and he says that in Alexandria there's two incisions of brown coal that are standing there, they're going to work soon. The city will get plus 10 million dollars to the budget. What's going to be built is the power plant, the chemical plant, and so on. Yes, I want to remind you, I want to remind you that in 2004, when the prime minister was Yanukovic, these two cuts that were lost today and today broke all of these contracts. [[B in m in s a l in]] It was said that the mining debt would be eliminated from the state budget, and two years later the company would start operating. It doesn't just work, it doesn't even work in two years, it doesn't even have a program, it's all standing there and everything's been a lie. On October 2, 2010, the President of Ukraine, along with Governor Larini, opened an international airport in Kirovograd. Over the past two years, no plane, not even a corn-fed plane, because when they opened the airport, they forgot to build the runway, so far it's gone. Speaking up, the future president criticized Julia Volodymyrý Timoshenko very much for not paying them back to today’s cities and other lands where there are uranium. I want to remind you that it was at Prime Minister Janukovich that the Program was adopted, which is called the "Statile Development of Uranium Production and Processing Area", where certain amounts were made. And today this program doesn't work, and in the 2012 budget, there's no money, no money, no money. According to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, the local budgets are empty today. You've been approached and shown that it's only in the city of Kirovograd that subsidies need to be equal to at least 250 million dollars today, and that's not even counted today. I just want to encourage and say that I'm sick of this regional and national.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u85	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u86	You don't need that budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. Reporter, head of the Baranov Committee, do you have a closing statement? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u88	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, summarizing today's review of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2012, I would like to point out the following. For the first time in the last few years, such a process takes place at the right time and under the special procedure established by the Supreme Council Rules. During the discussion of the bill, a constructive discussion took place on the most pressing issues that need to be addressed. Regrettably, I am convinced that the criticism of working together to solve the problems, as always, goes to the area of populationism and the desire to please the Ukrainian people. This is especially the case with those who, when in power, did not solve or understand any problems or did not, or did not, or did not, understand. The truth is, no one has taken any steps to get out of the circle. We need to take professional steps together and make money, not share an empty pocket. No one spoke of the need to earn or what it would take to share what was not available. And that's true. And so it was all 20 years of Ukrainian independence. If we don't move from demagogy to work, we don't have a future, so I invite everyone to cooperate. The committee, for its part, is preparing its proposals to the government for concrete action to solve the most painful problems that have been expressed here today, both by this half of the room and by this half. Please consider some suggestions. First. Amendments 92, 101, 125, 941 make a mistake: instead of the family Bodnar Olga Borisovna wrongly named Bondar family, and I apologize to her. I would like to take into account the proposals for the identification of the State Forest Resources Agency as the chief budget manager for the relevant budgetary programmes, this is the amendment of Shpak, Gerasimczuk and Sherschun, by supplementing section 29, paragraph 29, of the budget conclusions. Please support the entire budget committee's draft Regulation 9000P, taking into account the additional proposals I have made. The adoption of such a decree is the adoption of a bill on the State budget in the first reading. The government has yet to finalize the bill within two weeks according to budgetary conclusions and submit it to the Supreme Council for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u89	Thank you. Feder Alexiyovich, do you have a closing word? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u90	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You really have made a tremendous number of proposals that we need to work together to make the budget really meet those urgent needs of our citizens, and we have been able not only to write them in the State Budget, but to fulfil the commitments we make in this draft law. So the suggestions you made, I listened to them carefully, took control. I'll work with you. The proposals made by Baranov Valerius Alexiyovich are also supported by the government. We ask you to vote on the draft regulation proposed by the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u91	Dear National Deputies! Please prepare yourself for making a decision. Puts the vote to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Dear National Deputies! Everybody stay in the hall! votes on the proposal of the Committee on the Adoption of the Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on conclusions and proposals for the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2012, taking into account the additional proposals raised by the head of the Committee on Budgets, Valery Alexiyovich Baranov. [[Registration number 9000-p]] Please vote. [[17:52:00]] For 248 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 189, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 6, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, "The People's Party – 20, "Afterfaction" – 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. The question is: draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the conduct by international experts of checks on the activities of state banks, public compulsory social insurance funds, external and internal borrowings]] [[Registration number 9234]] [[second reading]] Deputy Head of the Committee for Budget Affairs, Melnik Petr Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u93	Thank you. Peter Melnik, Party of Regions. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Budget Affairs has prepared for the second reading a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the conduct by international experts of checks on the activities of state banks, public compulsory social insurance funds, external and internal borrowings]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u94	Peter Volodymyrovich, let us make suggestions in connection with the lack of time. There are 3 corrections, 2 counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u95	Four repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u96	Four repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u97	Two are proposed to consider, namely, the name of the bill for the implementation of an international bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u98	Peter Volodymyrovich, thank you. Yes, please, 3 revisions. Carmagine, do you insist? Carmazine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u99	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, there is now a great fraud: the State Budget Act has been voted by ghosts, and you know it. Ghosts because there are only cards, there are no national MPs. That's the first one. The other one. I believe that in this budget that you have just voted, there are about 100 billion incomes hidden, including from the Euro, including the revenue from the environmental fund, which others should have been. Because of this, I consider the great fraud that has now been done. And what doesn't follow the Rules of Procedure Act is also. How could I not now convince you to vote for my amendment, I understand that the aggressive majority will not vote, but I will not make the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u100	And thank you for the principle. 3 amendments to the vote shall be made. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:55:05]] For-12. Not supported. 4th, Arjevitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I remind you that this law provides for spending 60 million dollars from the State Budget on international auditing. So I don't think it's appropriate to spend all this money on this. And I would like to outline in my proposals those critical options when it's necessary to spend money on international auditing. And I said, this is when you sell a government share in a commercial bank, here without an audit, really, you don't have to. Or, for example, when the Court of Auditors or the Ministry of Finance or the National Bank was checked, and there was some kind of conflict, that is, we need to find the side that would make a reasoned conclusion. In this case, contact international audiences. In this way, if we consider my offer, we will, in turn, not pay for everything abroad, but only in cases where we cannot afford it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u102	The 4th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:56:32]] For -14 Not supported. Microphone Light.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u103	Thank you. Dear fellow citizens! The 2012 budget bill, which has just been adopted by the Supreme Council, will make it even poorer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u104	Please, 2011
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u105	I'll tell you what. It will make the poor even poorer and make the rich rich richer. As in the current year, forced removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u106	Turn off the microphone. Kulikov, please, about what?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u107	Dear colleagues! I'd like to say what my colleague, Mr. Arjevitin, has just said, is he.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u108	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues, I repeat, I repeat, who has any comment on the amendments that have been made?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u109	You don't have it. You say what you want, not what you need. The amendment was already voted 4th, she didn't get any support. It's easy, but it's okay. Please, Miniphone Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Thank you. I would ask you very much to allow the people's deputies to express their thoughts, not to engage in despotism. With regard to the bill, which, Peter Volodymyrovich, you report, we're all talking about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u111	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u112	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u113	What kind of correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u114	Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u115	Turn off the microphone. What amendment is not included? What's the number? What? Who owns it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Who owns it, the first amendment? Yes, dear fellows, all the amendments have been voted on. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in the whole bill under number 9234 on amendments to Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2011. Please vote. [[17:58:46]] For 268. Copy that. Thank you. Have a seat. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, especially Kulikov, the amendment that Argewittin spoke of was about voting, and she received no support, that is, talking about her no longer. As a member of even three committees, you no longer have the right to speak about it. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 is under consideration. [[providing funding for the review of nuclear safety standards and regulations to take into account lessons learned from the Fukushima-Dajichi AES accident]] [[Registration number 9235]] The report is Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[5:59:49]] For 237 Supported. Please, Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, the tragic events at the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant are known to all of us. As a result, this question is being asked by the entire world community dealing with nuclear security. It was decided that the risks should be overestimated, first, to overestimate the criteria under which such facilities were being developed. A similar decision has been made with us in Ukraine. There was a meeting of the National Security and Defence Council, there was an order from the President requiring the State of inspection of nuclear regulation to take action. I mean, once again, to assess first the criteria according to which the projects of these facilities are being developed and to analyse compliance with these new criteria for existing such facilities. The work is very large, labour-intensive and very large scientific personnel are involved. This requires money; this year's budget did not provide for this money. According to economists, the figure agreed with the Ministry of Finance is 600,000 bracelets. Therefore, these changes in the State budget involve the provision of additional money this year by the State Inspectorate of Nuclear Regulations to finance these works. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u117	Thank you. Baranov Valerius Alexiyovich, co-reported by the committee
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, the Committee on Budget Questions at its meeting on October 18th considered the bill. The bill proposes to increase the expenditure of the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate by 600,000 dollars under the programme "Example studies in the field of nuclear regulation". The bill has an impact on the budget, but the proposal is unbalanced. Since there is no proposal to cover additional expenses that do not meet the requirements of Article 95 of the Constitution. Moreover, the bill does not meet the requirements of standard-setting techniques for amending the State Budget Act. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus, in its conclusion, also notes imbalances. The Committee on Rules, MPs and Security also notes this. The Ministry of Finance, in its conclusion to the bill, makes comments on the imbalance in the legislative proposal and then points out the need to redraft it. However, by sharing the need to support the idea of the bill and to increase the measures envisaged for the decisions of the PNDP, the Committee on Budget Affairs has prepared a revised draft Law amending the Law on the State Budget 2011 to address the shortcomings of the regulatory and design technology, to balance the legislative proposal and to make budgetary indicators consistent with the current drafting of the State Budget Act, and to take account of the changes already adopted by law. [[on financial security measures for nuclear safety]] In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 9235 following a first reading review to be adopted by the Committee as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u119	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yes, please sign in. Grivkowski. Don't insist. It's a mess. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u120	I'm sorry, I pressed the "plus" button, it had to be "minus." You know, the budget and any expense is the balance. And so let's just keep it consistent. We have the conclusion of Minfin -- we don't have any money. It's not toys. This is the budget. So let's say that, if Minfin concludes, the money from the reconstruction comes up, we can vote on the project. I don't even know if there's a project on this program, if it's really worth 600,000. Because I've been doing a little research work and it's too much money to just put it there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u121	Blackwolf, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u122	Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear friends, of course, the goal is noble, it should be supported. In the meantime, I didn't understand the conclusions of the head of the budget committee, because, frankly, I didn't understand, did I find the money to balance or did I find the money to balance? I would like to say in my support of the need to finance nuclear safety in general that I propose to take immediately 600,000 of the unfortunate 100 million that we gave in July to support hunting farms. It'll be perfectly right and smart. There will be no great harm to the cabanas of our oligarchs, because they are all private, these hunting farms, and here perhaps we will do something useful to make such a dangerous energy sector as nuclear safe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u123	Thank you. Question completed. I think, my fellow Members, we all understand the importance and necessity of adopting this bill. Despite some irony as to where to find the funds. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis and as a whole the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 taking into account the proposals of the Professional Committee. [[providing funding for the review of nuclear safety standards and regulations to take into account lessons learned from the Fukushima-Dajichi AES accident]] [[Registration number 9235]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-20-m1.u124	Next time, next time. She's volunteering for the next bill. [[18:06:32]] For 268. Thank you. The law is passed. And, dear colleagues, since we will no longer be working in October, and in October we will have a big event, a meeting of the teaching community, we have a draft decree on the award of the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize to teachers of general education, vocational and technical, pre-school and extra-school institutions. [[Registration number 9178]] Can we accept it without discussing it? I'm voting on the decision to award the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, preschool and extra-school institutions. [[Bill No. 9178]] Please give me a friendly vote. [[18:07:42]] For 280 It's been decided. I think on this good note we're going to finish the evening session. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
