ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:58]] 394 national deputies registered with cards. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we are going to consider a draft Act amending some of the legislation on the settlement of copyright and adjacent rights. [[Registration number 6523]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Lutsky Maksim Georgievovich. How about a short cut? Yes, the committee suggests that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[16:01:55]] For-179 Decision taken. Maxim Georgiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! One prerequisite for the successful development of the democratic rule of law is the protection and protection of private rights, which include the rights of authors, artists, architects, directors, performers and other creators. Today, copyright and adjacent rights are subject to basic legislation, which is generally consistent with international legislation, but the practice of applying legislation has revealed a number of shortcomings, including: firstly, the insufficient level of adaptation of national legislation to European Union legislation; secondly, the non-compliance of certain provisions of legislation among themselves, such as the Civil Code of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on Copyright and Complementary Rights; thirdly, non-compliance by subjects with the requirements of legislation for payment of remuneration for the use of copyright and adjacent rights. Low efficiency of the collective management system for property rights of copyright subjects and adjacent rights. There is also insufficient responsibility for violations of legislation taking into account the development of information technologies, such as the Internet. With a view to resolving the problems identified, you have developed and proposed a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts on the settlement of copyright and related rights. We believe that the adoption of this bill will allow: firstly, to bring national legislation in line with the provisions of European Union legislation; secondly, to harmonize national laws among themselves, which will facilitate the regulation of copyright relations and adjacent rights; thirdly, to improve relations in the area of collective governance, property rights of copyright subjects and adjacent rights. And fourthly, to put in place effective protection of copyright and adjacent rights in Ukraine. In addition, an important argument is to support this bill by requiring the International Intellectual Property Alliance, as indicated in the annual report, to which Ukraine is included in the list of countries requiring observation under the so-called 301 and to monitor progress towards the immediate implementation of the Ukrainian government.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u3	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u4	Let me finish. The committee supported this bill positively, there is the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Authority, so there is a request to support the bill, to take it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u5	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. People's Deputy Wonderland, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u6	Basil Wonder, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! As for me, the law is appropriate, the bill is appropriate, and so I propose to support it. However, I would like to make one point, in my view, that is an important point. What do I mean? Some of the changes proposed in the Ukrainian Criminal Code raise some doubts. The point is that the actions involved in the corresponding novels of the bill are, by their very nature, civil and not criminal offences. Thus, the existence of an offence can only be established through a court of law. That is, the question of whether a lawfully or illegally appropriate person does not pay a reward or count is a matter for the court’s decision. There is no way to rule out such a situation that after a judicial hearing it will prove that the so - called payment is legal. However, in the event that a new article 203-2 of the Criminal Code is adopted, the law enforcement authorities have to decide on their own matters of a civil and legal nature, the decisions of which fall within the jurisdiction of the court. I propose to exclude this novel from the text of the bill and to accept it in the first reading, taking into account my observation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u7	Thank you. Stepan Dávimuk, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This area is extremely difficult. We held committee hearings. Such committee hearings were held in 2008, 2009. There were corresponding draft changes to the law. But they never came to their realization. At that time, problems are extremely complex. There's a lot of practice already. And there are already some requirements among creative workers for what changes are needed. The bill was discussed at a meeting of our committee. And the committee as a whole, even the authors, have to admit, they tended to seriously work on these changes. But still, given the importance of this issue and the fact that we still need to bring this discussion to the level of the Supreme Council, we agreed to look at it in the first reading. However, he must point out that there are extremely serious shortcomings in this bill that need to be corrected and corrected. Very, in some cases, the bill does not comply with the provisions of international law in the field of copyright and neighbouring rights, nor with the provisions of the current legislation of Ukraine. It contains standards that directly violate the constitutional rights and interests of copyright subjects and adjacent rights. Yes, the draft law proposes the introduction of a mechanism that replaces copyright subjects and adjacent rights with organizations and collectives.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u10	I mean, I think that this bill needs to be put up for work, but there are too many observations and shortcomings in the discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u11	Honorable National MPs. The discussion is concluded, and the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. That is also the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I would like to place a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on the settlement of copyright and adjacent rights]] [[Registration number 6523]] Please vote. [[16:09:41]] For 249 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. According to the minutes of the meeting of the delegation of the "BUT-Fatherschina" from 1 February 2011 and in accordance with article 60, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the expulsion of Ukrainian national deputies: Babeyeva Oleg Maydanović, Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrović, Kurovsky Ivan Ivanovich, Mobčan Pavel Mihajlovich, Pavlenko Viktorovič, Seminoga Anatolija Ivanovic, Yacenka Anton Volodymyrovich, from the deputy faction "BUT-"- "Batekovščina". Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. [[on proposals for the conclusion of Ukraine's international agreements]] [[Registration number 2575]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Czarnovil Taras Viacheslavovich. Both from the author and the committee, right? Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:11:16]] For 229 Decision taken. The reporter and co-reporter, Czarnowil Tara Viacheslavovich, at the same time. Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! In fact, the situation that arose with regard to the fate of the bill does not require four minutes. In my opinion, the bill is absolutely correct, absolutely constitutional and necessary. But it is already known that the political will of the majority faction, and even before that, has been stated the same position of those factions that today, when they were still in power, would not support this bill on the grounds that it seems that such changes proposed by the bill would be contrary to the Constitution. So I'm going to explain very briefly the position of our committee, why we don't agree with this conclusion of both the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and a number of other structures. The point is that the bill proposes to give the Supreme Council the right because it has the authority to form the principles of foreign and domestic policy, i.e. to propose the directions in which the foreign policy of Ukraine should be developed, and therefore the treaty base, to give the Supreme Council the right to make proposals. Once again, I would like to caution against initiating, signing, not negotiating, how, in my view, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made an inappropriate suggestion in its observation, rather than making proposals to the President of Ukraine or to the Cabinet of Ministers on the possibility of concluding such or other agreements with appropriate conciliatory instruments of relevance on the needs of such a treaty. Further accordingly, the President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, after considering the proposal of the Supreme Council, which is voted in this Chamber by the majority of the deputies of the Supreme Council, may accept it for consideration or a reasoned rejection and say that, to date, such a treaty is not acceptable to Ukraine or that Ukraine is not yet prepared for it, or that the meeting party is not ready for it. But we have noted that there is part of the second 62th article of the Constitution, which severely restricts the functions of the Supreme Council. In other words, the Supreme Council can only do what is clearly stated in the Constitution. But it's about defining what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do. As far as suggestions are concerned. This is not an imperative act. He has no legal effect but recommendations. But given that the same position has been rejected in the same way, according to its legal substance, for consultations with ambassadors of Ukraine under foreign states, I understand that, in this case, this mixing of the imperative and non-imperial rules of the Supreme Council will probably be applied again in relation to this bill. I understand that it will not be supported today, but, indeed, regrettably, because it is so noted that even district administrations can make proposals for international agreements. The Supreme Council, which has the function of determining the principles of foreign policy, has no right to even make a proposal about what should be signed by an international treaty, once again, not to impose them on the President or the Cabinet, but simply to propose. I think it would make perfect sense. The position of our committee is definitely in favour. So I'm asking you to support the committee's position, although I understand that the result is probably going to be negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u13	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this statement. Yes, I'd like the names of the National Deputies. Strange.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u14	Basil Wonder, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Under the valid Law on International Contracts, Ukraine has the right to submit to the Supreme Council draft laws on the ratification of international agreements to the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Part 6 of Article 9 of the Law]] According to article 151, part 1, of the Basic Law, the question of the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine with the international treaties submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is decided by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for the request of the President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It draws attention in this connection to paragraph 2 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Treaties of 23 May 1969, according to which the relevant persons, in view of their functions and without the need to present their credentials, are considered to represent their State: in particular Heads of State, Heads of Government and Ministers of Foreign Affairs, with a view to making all acts relating to the conclusion of the treaty; heads of diplomatic representation are also appointed Head of State, with a view to adopting the text of the treaty between the accreditation State and the State in which they are accredited; representatives authorized by States to represent them at an international conference or an international organization, or in one of its bodies, with a view to adopting the text of the agreement at such a conference, such an organization or body. [[By the way, on April 4, 1986, Ukraine joined]] Of course, such representatives can be parliamentarians. This context is seen to be sufficiently indicative of the subject matter of all acts relating to the conclusion of a contract. The bill proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be given the authority to make proposals for the conclusion of Ukraine's international agreements, which will be adopted in the form of a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will be supplemented by, inter alia, the submission to the President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u15	Microphone. Finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u16	may contain a mandate for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prepare documents. In view of the above, it is considered appropriate to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u17	Ivan Popescu, one minute. And Sergey Shevchuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u18	Thank you. Popescu, the "Regions" faction. It is a good idea, of course, for great colleagues, but it should be noted that the proposed changes extend Parliament's competence in spite of the requirements of part two of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Ukraine’s Parliament’s mandate regarding Ukraine’s international treaties is defined in article 9 of the first article of article 85 of the Ukrainian Constitution. [[paragraph 5 and paragraph 32]] Such powers include the granting of consent to be bound by international treaties and the denunciation of international treaties, the determination of foreign policy principles. At the moment, the Constitution of Ukraine does not authorize Parliament to initiate an international treaty procedure. In addition, the proposal for a merger in Parliament’s work to make proposals for the conclusion of an international treaty and the authorization to give consent to its obligations is also contrary to the principle of the division of State authority enshrined in article 6 of the Constitution. Until changes to the Constitution are made, such proposals should be rejected. There won't be a party of regions voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u19	Sergey Shevchuk, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u20	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Well, I'm surprised to hear from MPs who work in international parliamentary structures, similar arguments. We all know that, unfortunately, Ukraine is lagging behind in many aspects of the ratification of international treaties, conventions. Sometimes five years go by, sometimes seven years go by. Only then do the documents from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs come here, to Parliament. It's not overstepping Parliament's authority, it's our legal initiative. And it's very sad that the majority, given the understanding of this, are going to vote in a completely different way. The Timoshenko bloc believes that this bill is very good, and it complements Parliament's ability to engage in international activities. And he's going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u21	Dear colleagues. Please, Yuri Carmazin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u22	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you in connection with what we are getting so that only after the Constitution has been changed did the Supreme Council lose much of its authority. This complicates normal civilized life today and accelerates the Tunisianization and Egyptization of Ukraine. Because of this, the proposal made today that proposals for the conclusion of international agreements may be made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Supreme Council of Ukraine is absolutely right and unconflicted. In my opinion, the President of Ukraine should also come out with such an offer, which should make it clear that the authority he is so inclined to himself today must be shared, otherwise there will be much more to be shared. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is over. Once again, I remind you that the committee has decided to recommend the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office has taken an excellent position, and it believes that this bill should be rejected. I am betting on the motion to vote: on the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. [[on proposals for the conclusion of Ukraine's international agreements]] Registration number 2575. Please vote. [[16:21:54]] For-99 The decision is not taken. So the bill is rejected. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on notarial certification and registration of contracts for the employment of buildings]] Dear colleagues, the bill's author, National MP Barwinenko, asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make such a request: to move the consideration scheduled for the day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine due to my absence from objective circumstances. Let's vote, shall we? So I'm going to put it to a vote. And I'd like to ask you to make a decision. I'm voting on a motion for postponement. transfer of the draft Law, registration number 5218. [[16:23:19]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Let's look at it. By a reduced procedure, yes, Yuri Romanovich? There is a proposal for the committee to deal with this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:23:46]] For 218. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the Legal Policy Committee, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy discussed at its meeting the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine on Notarial Certification and Registration of Contracts for Construction, submitted by National Deputy Barwinenk Vitali Dmitrovic, on 12.10.2009. [[Registration number 5218]] Dear colleagues, in fact, this is a short law, it foresees an increase in the term from three years as a necessary condition up to five years of contract operation. I want to remind you that in 2006 we have already extended this term from one year to three years. The author now proposes that these terms be extended as a necessary condition for notarial certification up to five years. The committee considered this initiative, concluded that the current norm fully meets the needs of today. And in addition, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority recommends that this bill be rejected. Our committee's decision is to turn this bill back to the subject of the legislative initiative, because the need to settle this issue now is not considered appropriate in the way the drafter proposes. Thank you for your attention. And I'd like to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u25	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Who insists on the discussion? Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u26	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider, I have no objection to the fact that all national MPs have the right to legislative initiative. But what is suggested in this case? In this case it is suggested that you write 5 years instead of 3 years. These are changes to the Civil Code. So if you're going to be 5 years old, you don't have to take notes on the contract for hiring a building or another capital building. That's a change to 793. Up to 794 is also that the government registration of a contract of employment does not take place if it is entered into for less than 5 years. Who cares if they don't? Obviously it's not for the order of things. It's just a misunderstanding. And I would ask very much of the committee, and all of our colleagues, when we make changes to basic codes, which are civil, criminal, land codes, when we make changes, they should be more or less systematic, rather than changing words in one article. I'm just calling on this and the people's deputies, and the leadership of the Supreme Council to change our approach. What we have now, today, voted to consider eight hundred of the remaining issues of the agenda is not about the quality of these bills. Maybe all we have to do is make changes to 30 bills, but do it so that they're reconciled to each other so that they can flow organically out of each other to ensure that we can further systematize and codify legislation in the interests of society. So I see such bills are absolutely, well, harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u27	Yes, dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? No, it's not. The committee proposes that the subject be returned to the legislative initiative for the drafting of the bill. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is to be rejected. And according to the procedure, I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the bill's draft registration number 5218. [[16:28:49]] For-0 Is there another offer? That's the conclusion. The Committee concludes that the right of the legislative initiative to work on this project should be restored to the subject. I'm voting on this proposal. [[16:29:21]] For two. The decision is not taken. In view of this support, I announce that the bill has been rejected. Dear colleagues! I am introducing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure for Procedural Succession. The rapporteur is a member of the Justice Committee, Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich. And there is a request from the author and from the committee to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. [[16:30:08]] For 221 Decision taken. Please, Dmitri Mikitovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u28	Honourable National Deputies, a bill has been tabled for your consideration aimed at enhancing the protection of the rights of operators through a more detailed settlement of issues of legal process in the economic process. [[No. 4604]] At present, a number of rules of the Ukrainian Code of Procedure are outdated and do not match the realities of the present. Yes, according to a valid version of article 25 of the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the court has the right to replace the party with its successor in only one case: in the case of a reorganization of an enterprise or an organization. Unlike this article, article 37 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code provides several grounds for replacing the party with a successor: the death of a natural person, the cessation of a legal person, the merger, the merger, the division, the transformation, the replacement of a creditor, and so on. An examination of the arbitration and economic process of the neighbouring countries of Ukraine, as well as their jurisprudence in similar legal relations, shows that Ukraine is the only country in which it is not possible today to waive the right of claim in the domestic proceedings or after a court decision. The Russian Federation, Belarus, Poland, Czech Republic, Moldova have no application problems. the proceedings or after the judgement has been rendered. Similar reasons should be provided for in the master’s procedural code. At the same time, it is proposed to amend articles 62, 79, 80 of the Master’s Procedural Code, which are derived from article 25 of the Code. The Scientific and Experimental Authority supports the bill by recommending some changes to the bill in preparation for the second reading. In addition, the bill is supported by the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the higher courts of Minsk, some higher educational institutions. It's a committee of questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u29	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u30	Please accept this bill as a basis. Please support the bill, which is extremely important for the parties to the economic process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u31	Thank you too, Dmitri Mikitovich. Dear colleagues who plan to participate in this discussion, please sign up. Yes, your name, please. Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u32	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! It is suggested that we make very simple changes, in my opinion. But the more I meditate on them, the more I come to the conclusion that they should not be accepted. I think you'll agree with me, Dmitri Mikitovich. Why? There is a material succession that we do not touch. It exists. After the death of a natural person or in connection with the cessation of the activity of the householder, his rights are transferred to someone else. And if these rights, or these rights, are violated in court, they should suddenly cease in connection with death or other circumstances. Even when this does not suit the interests of the one who has died. Because of this, and apparently, of the person who is the attacker. That's why I look into this one thing that's interesting. It's just that it's hard in court to get a lawyer involved. Because we're gonna have to find him. Then let's do it. There's an idea. And the essence of the idea is good, Your Honourable Dmitri Mikitovich. But then let's write -- in that case, if the successor doesn't insist on it. And if he has appealed to the court, I ask that he continue to defend the same rights as he was. Then do not deprive him of that right. Because we know how the trial is conducted today, especially after the reform by the Party of Regions today in judicial reform. It's a mistreatment of people and, by the way, a mistreatment of judges who haven't received a salary allowance right now, nothing, especially young judges, so in that way it's very raw this bill, it needs to be reworked.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u33	Yes, the distinguished national MPs. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure. [[on the process of law enforcement]] [[Registration number 4604]] Please vote. [[16:36:00]] For 302 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues. It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the Subordination of Disputes]] [[Registration number 6608]] The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pisarenko Valerius. Huh?Oh, my God! Filipenko is both a reporter and a co-reporter. Honorary colleagues, the author, and the committee propose to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. [[16:36:49]] For the 220. Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u34	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! You've been introduced to the Bill by registration number 6608. The purpose of this bill is to correct the inaccuracies contained in article 8, part 3, paragraph 8, of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement and to reconcile this Act with a special legal act governing the conduct of administrative matters, the Code of Administrative Justice. To achieve this goal, the draft law is proposed. First. Delete article 5, section 2, paragraph 2, of the Code of Administrative Justice. To supplement part 3 of article 19 of the Code of Administrative Justice by stating that administrative matters relating to the prosecution of decisions of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee concerning complaints of violations of public procurement law are decided by a district administrative court whose territorial jurisdiction extends to the city of Kiev. Third. Paragraph 8 of the third part of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement in a new edition and note that the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine to hear complaints of violations of public procurement legislation may be brought before an administrative court within 30 days. It should be noted that the adoption of the bill will help to clarify the court's case law on the decisions of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee to hear complaints of violations of legislation in the area of public procurement. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice discussed the draft law at its meeting on 15 December 2010, and the decision adopted by the Committee is as follows: the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill No. 6608 to adopt in the first reading and on a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u35	Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the bill. Please sign up for the discussion. Names, please. Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u36	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill also has positive intentions, but its implementation may not lead to very good results. In particular, I would like to warn you about this, I understand that the political will in this room is decided by one right hand, and still by the instinct of the vote. So I'd like to remind you, I'm not talking about the negative conclusion of the Chief Scientific Administration, why? Because the position of the project contradicts each other. It is proposed to delete paragraph two parts of article 5 of the SASU, which provides that the conduct of public procurement administrations takes into account the features of the Public Procurement Act. At the same time, with changes to part three of article 8, it is proposed to establish a 30-day term of appeal to the court of the decisions of that body, an accusation of public procurement issues, although the 99th article of the Code establishes a 6-month term for bringing an administrative court. Now let's see, let's see, from the point of view of the Constitution. You have the right to go to court for 6 months or 30 days. What is more protective of your rights? Apparently, the six-month term is more protective. Because of this, because of the contradictions that are in the law, I think it's completely inappropriate to accept it right now, and I agree with the idea of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority that suggested rejecting it. By the way, there are ambiguities in the evaluation of this bill by other bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u37	Yes. Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the Subordination of Disputes]] [[Registration number 6608]] Yes, please vote. [[16:41:53]] For 214 The decision is not taken. We didn't make it? I am voting for the return to the draft Law registration number 6608. [[16:42:20]] For 228 We're back on the subject. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the Subordination of Disputes]] [[Registration number 6608]] Please vote. [[16:42:51]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on Guarantees of Equality of Parliamentary Parties when it comes to public broadcasters and radio channels. [[Registration number 5314]] The bill’s author, Leonid Ivanovich Grach, addressed a letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine requesting that the matter be postponed in connection with his being in the hospital. I'm going to put to the vote a motion to postpone the bill, registration number 5314. Well, I think the Supreme Council will determine. [[16:44:01]] For-198 The decision is not taken. That's too bad. I will then ask the committee to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the content of our colleague's legislative initiative. Reported to Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Dear colleagues, Helen Anatolyevna suggests that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Yeah? Please vote. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[16:44:46]] For 207 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You have the text of the bill before you, I hope, and I would like to draw attention to the exact title of the bill: the guarantees of equality of parliamentary parties in the light of their activities by state television channels and radio channels. Basically the bill itself. It does not correspond to its name because it also attempts to regulate the relations between TV channels and public radio stations with those parties represented on local councils. This is the first moment. Second moment. The declarative principles and things contained in the bill are in fact a duplicate of the rules already in force in the laws already in force: on television and radio broadcasting, on the Information Act, on the Political Parties Act in Ukraine and on the Law on Elections to Local Councils, on the President of Ukraine and on the Supreme Council. In this case, these rules will not help us, will not prevent us, that is, in this case, a declaration of good intentions already enshrined in other laws in Ukraine. Although the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information looked favourably at it, it suggested that the bill should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, the report is closed. Let's move on to the decision-making process. Who insists on the discussion? Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. All right, all right, then Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u40	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to thank both Leonid Grac, and Hanni Herman, who signed this bill. For what? For reminding society of the fact that publicizing the activities of parliamentary parties by state channels and radio channels should be based on such principles as the dissemination of objective and complete information on the activities of each party, the provision of a level playing field, the provision of an equal amount of air time for each parliamentary party represented in the fields, for the parties represented in the respective local councils. And the publicity of state control over the activities of parliamentary parties, as well as the guarantees of universal, objective information for television and radio audiences. Irony of fate, but it was just during the break that I was discussing today the address of a citizen from Lviv who asked me to send a copy to the committee and personally to the national deputy Shevchenk, deputy head of the Supreme Council of Tomenka and Sobolev, Sergey Sobolev. The three deputies were asked to correct it. And they complained about how it was reported, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and radio channels, and the "Rada" channel, as broadcast in places, particularly in Lviv. It was today that I read this letter. That's why I see that there's a huge problem with what's missing, and I'm not talking about the selectivity of this information. I understand that this bill was passed in 2009. I understand that Herman and Player were in opposition at the time, they're in power today, and today this bill is inconvenient to them. I would like to support this bill and the political forces behind it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u41	Yeah, I already told you that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u42	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u43	Yeah. Dear colleagues, now Vladimir Bondarenko has the floor for the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u44	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yuli's Block Timoshenko. Dear friends, every party we have in Ukraine, especially parliamentary big ones, have certain opportunities to spread their ideas, thoughts, expressions and works of their own theorists and so forth. It's their internal party problem, who they give them and how much space they give in those newspapers or in those radio shows. But when it comes to government channels that explain the work of an organ like the Supreme Council -- the only legislative body -- if they're reporting in the local press everything that's done at the local level, they should be, at least, tolerant of those political forces. There can be no such situation as the dominance of one political power in Ukraine today, which will allow them to express their thoughts completely and freely on all channels, on all newspapers and on all radios, while everyone else will remain silent and look for other channels. This is government money, and government money foresees using it, not according to a politically involved principle, but according to the principle of equal treatment of all political forces. Therefore, we must certainly abide by these principles, otherwise speaking of Ukraine as an impossible democratic state. I would even expand and talk not only about parliamentary political parties, but also about the political powers that are now in Ukraine, which are at the local level. They need access to information, access to ideas, and the souls of citizens. Otherwise, we want to maintain what happened today as our activity. So I think that any advantage of any political power in these media is impossible. And if so, it is undemocratic. So I would like to support just this paritative use of the media that there is. In Germany there is a rule: On average, there are five parties to the Bundestag.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u45	Yeah, one minute. Please finish your speech. Then Alla Alexandrovska, then Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u46	Yes, in the same Germany, the financing of the parties that have won the most votes is based on the principle of equal rights, and the latter, least of all, double to allow them to develop. Here we ask for a clean parity, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u47	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u48	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, I believe that the need for free access to information for all citizens has been quite common in recent times. Most importantly, we, as people's deputies, must ensure that people are provided with objective, comprehensive information. On the conscience of those who speak, on how true they express the essence of what is happening in Ukraine — politics, statistics, the economy, and so forth. But let the people truly see for whom the truth is. In order to do so, access to information must be available to all, and especially to those parties that are responsible for what is happening in Ukraine, i.e. those parties that are represented in Parliament. In that sense, I think this bill needs to be supported. If we accept it in first reading, I think, even if someone disagrees with the individual positions that are laid down in this law, or at least there are other approaches to the need to exercise the right to access information, to objective information, in working on this bill for second reading, we will be able to make such amendments, or the MPs will be able to express their views. That is why I think it is perfectly logical, entirely fair now, in the Chamber to support this bill in the first reading and to allow the MPs to work on this bill for second reading, to present their position on what we see freedom of speech, on what we see guarantees of access to objective information to Ukrainian citizens and to those political parties represented in Parliament. I therefore propose that this bill be supported on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u49	People's MP Landik, budget, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u50	Thank you. You know, one of the speakers rightly said that when they were in opposition, by the way, this law was not 2009 but 2008 when they were in opposition, then they wanted to be more on the air and so on. But let's remember, respected colleagues, when we're in the regions, on every state radio and television company, what, are they not giving us time? They do. Let's look at the legislation. And in the Information Act, in the Public Information Access Act, everything is listed. The same law took parts of the laws and amended the legislation. There's no Novella. That's why I don't think I'm compromising anyone. Moreover, there was no precedent for anyone to complain to us on the committee about any parliamentary faction that radio organizations were not allowed to speak somewhere on the state television. They're waiting there for a few people to go there, and they don't want to report to their constituents. That's why this law, it's too much, it'll even interfere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u51	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, I recall, indeed, the law registered on November 5, 2009 by then the head of the Committee on Freedom of speech by Hanna Herman and the national deputy Leonid Grac. And the idea was clear to me, and obviously it was about the course of political events, and a certain warning of opposition to the possibility of bringing its point of view to the general public. As far as legal security is concerned, I agree with the Landik People's Deputies, and there are very serious warnings about how to explain it. But when it comes to the idea, of course, this idea is correct in the sense that if there is a district state television or national television, I mean the First National Radio Company or National Radio Company, it is intended that they should be an example in objectivity, in the authenticity of the presentation of information. And I see in the First National that they have a new trend, that there was no trend ever, they are now broadcasting the birthdays of the well-known Ukrainians, Russians, Jews or Poles. When famous people in power take their birthdays, for example, about 20 years ago and broadcast at the expense of the First National. In district television companies, there is now a trend that is beginning to broadcast the lives of governors. The governor goes to work, then he goes to work, then he meets with his deputies -- that's what happens. I think it's unacceptable things, it's disrespectful things to the territorial community. So I think in this legal formula, the bill is imperfect. But as an idea that requires us to bring to the leadership of state broadcasters that they should not, for the money of the territorial community or for the money of taxpayers, shed light on the vitality and birthdays of the Ukrainian people and the territorial community. So I would also consider it necessary to accept and consider how to move on in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u53	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. I remind you that the conclusion of the committee is that we need to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office considers it appropriate to reject the bill. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Guarantees of Equality of Parliamentary Parties in the light of their activities by state television channels and radio channels. [[16:57:50]] For 115 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region 2 Party, "BUT – Fatherland" – 74, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 8, Communists – 25, People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 6. Yes, Your Honor, let's go to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[on the application of the requirements of the European Convention on Transboundary Television to the programming concept of language]] [[Registration number 6342]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Committee, Helen Anatolyevna Bondarenko. Short cut, huh? Yes, the proposal came to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm putting her to the vote. Please vote. [[16:58:59]] For 202 Decision taken. Yes, Olena Anatolyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I know that this bill for some of you is going to be such a red bull flutter. In this case, it will be said that the bill allegedly kills the Ukrainian language in the music space of Ukraine. This is ridiculous. Those who say that are incompetent people who haven't even read my bill at all. With regard to the bill itself, first of all, note that we are actually implementing the norms of the European Convention on Trans-border Television and Broadcasting to our domestic legislation. These are the principles of work that Europe lives on, these are the principles of work that we want our Ukrainian radial sector to live on. This is first of all for us, if we adopt this law, and I'm sure we'll accept it, it's a test of democracy and a test of Europeanism. This is the first development of our Ukrainian national radio space. These are radio news stations, and this is the development of our Ukrainian music in this radio area. And these are also extra taxes to our budget. So please accept this bill. The committee was very supportive of the bill. On our side of society, on our side of the radio station. On our side, the branch and on our side, democracy. So please, who wants to prove that he is a Euro-Integrator, vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u55	Yes, thank you, too. Please sit down. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a discussion. Names, please. Valerius Calchenko, BUT faction, Fatherland. Please, Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u56	Mikhailo Kosov, Timoshenko Street. I remember those conversations that were constantly taking place when we adopted media laws. Including radio and television. And each time, the same question arose. About the percentages of speech and demonstrations of our native, Ukrainian and non-Ukrainian works. There were even such questions as whether domestic production should be at least 70 percent in these broadcasts. Well, we finally got 50. And if the reporter says it's some sort of a coincidence to the requirements of the European Convention. This has absolutely nothing to do with this convention, because the bill proposes to remove from the current law the rule that in radio programs music works – just listen! – Ukrainian authors and performers should not take up 50 per cent per week; and in television and radio programmes, once again, this 50 per cent should be excluded. So, what's it gonna be? And it turns out that there may not be any room left in our electronic media for Ukrainian works or for Ukrainian performers at all. It is now a dangerous situation. What happens after that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u57	People's MP Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u58	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! As has been repeatedly noted in the international legal expertise of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act, prepared for the European Council, the musical works of Ukrainian authors or performers belong to the European Works category. Do you understand? This is Europe, and we live with you in Europe. If we live in Europe and go to this Europe officially, how should we for Ukraine make any exceptions and personal rights to write for our works? It's, you said, right now, it's for television -- no, it's for radio talk, it's for music at FM stations. Moreover, the quotas for the distribution of music by Ukrainian authors or performers set out in the current version of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act do not take into account the number of such works that exist today. Thus, meeting these quotas by radio organizations leads to the fact that their programs are virtually indistinguishable from one another, and their listeners do not distinguish, want, or listen. And after the crisis began, and when 80 percent of the advertising market went out in radio speakers, they cut the numbers of their employees, they don't have representations in other cities. And now we're giving the opportunity to spin European, considering that it's also European, and then they're going to be niche these FM stations, and people are going to choose what's better for them. But even more will come the workers, the better wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u59	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u60	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, here in advance, the label has been hung up on everyone that if anyone opposes it will be against Euro-integration. I'm in favour of Euro-integration, but against this understanding of Euro-Integration, as we're proposing in this law, is absolutely against it. Because of that. What is the name of article 9 to which changes are made? It's called "Protection of the State's Interests and National Television Production". And from this article it is proposed to delete the words “or the music of Ukrainian authors or performers”. Is this a step towards Europe or a step from Europe? And now, in order not to talk about the idea that it is only the political power of some Party of Fatherland or the faction of “Our Ukraine”, I quote from the conclusion of the scientific and expert management of the pieces: “There is a need to warn that the removal from articles 9 and 28 of the current Television and Radio Regulations may lead to a weakening of the protection of the interests of the State and national television production, which does not conform to the content of the relevant provisions of the Constitution, according to which the State should contribute to the development of Ukrainian culture.” Let me remind you, this is about article 11 of the Constitution of Ukraine. There are also other things that I want to quote, because I have even stronger expressions than those written here. For example, the bill has a specific nature of detail, which has no specific legal meaning, since by its very nature the musical works of Ukrainian authors or performers are covered by the concept of “national audiovisual product”. And at the end of the day, it doesn't hurt a convention, it just doesn't need a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole. It's important. Dear colleagues, all by the Rules. We'll follow the Rules. The Chief Research Administration recommends that the bill be rejected. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[on the application of the requirements of the European Convention on Transboundary Television to the programming concept of language]] [[Registration number 6342]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. Dear colleagues, don't shout! [[17:09:00]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Yeah. There's a suggestion that the card didn't work and that you come back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm acting in accordance with the Rules, calmly. I beg of you, dear fellows. If there are voices, there are. If they're not, they're gone. I'm voting for a return to the bill. Sure. Well, please. Well, please, Your Honor. Well, we're back. I don't. I'll take the rules, follow the rules. I understand, but I'm doing the Rules. On the return to the subject. [[17:10:04]] For 239. Yeah, we're back. Now I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. [[17:10:27]] For 240 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Dear colleagues, in general, there's a denial, I can't put it. Region Party – 177, "BUT-"Batakushina" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 7, communists – 25, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 11. Dear National Deputies! A draft Act amending article 143 of the Ukrainian Family Code is submitted for consideration. [[regarding the father’s obligation to take the child out of the maternity home]] Yuri Romanovich, with a reduced procedure? Suggests the author of the draft law and the committee to consider the issue by summary procedure. I'll tell you what, we've lived to see that we have to adopt a law that would. obliges the father to take the child out of the maternity home. As far as father’s duty is concerned. [[17:11:28]] For-200 Decision taken. Please. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. Correspondent is head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Catherine Eugenyevna Lukyanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u62	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. It's a very simple law, respected colleagues, and it comes out of the judicial practice that we face when we work on the Committee of Legal Policy. And what is it? The fact is, article 143 of the Family Code obliges parents to take either their mother or their father if they are married. If the parents are not married, even when the parent is established, it is the mother’s duty to take the child out of the maternity home or other health care facility and there is no such obligation for the father, even though the parenthood is established, that is, in cases where parenthood is established. And there is a situation where a father is willing to take away, but there is no basis for what he owes him. Thus, it is suggested that this article should be supplemented by the following: “A mother who is not married is obliged to take a child out of a maternity home or other health care facility — and we complement it. A father who is not in a marriage whose parenthood is established is obliged to take a child out of a maternity home or other health care facility if the child has not done so.” That is, in principle, this law can be passed in general, equalizing both a woman and a man in matters of parental responsibility. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I now invite the head of the committee to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u64	Honorary colleagues, the bill proposes that a father who is not married and whose parenthood is set up be removed from the maternity home or from another health institution if he does not have a child. The Committee on Legal Policy believes that the legislative proposal is consistent with the principle of equality of rights between women and men and is aimed at protecting the interests of the child. There is no indication that his Constitution is not in conformity. The main scientific and expert office made a comment on the bill. And he believes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments made. What is the point? First, there may be problems with parenting if the abandoned child does not want it or does not know who may be the father of the child, and the Family Code does not oblige the mother of the abandoned child to point to the potential parent of the child. Secondly, who's going to be making a statement to the court about the establishment of parenthood? The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to amend article 143 of the Ukrainian Family Code on the duty of the father to take the child out of the maternity home. [[Registration number 6007]] Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Yes, please show me the names of the national MPs. Alexander Edin, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u66	Honorable National MPs, the bill proposed is extremely important, since it refers to the fate of the child in the maternity home and the responsibility of the parents. Taking into account the current realities in Ukrainian society regarding the formalization of marriages, these changes will indeed help protect the child's interests, reduce the need for children's homes, reduce the number of orphans and children deprived of parental care. This bill is entirely in line with the State’s strategic task of comparing the responsibilities of mother and father with that of a child, whether they are married or not. So please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u67	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, well, I understand that the very title of the bill is so humane, so humanistic, and it's obviously heard. But I do have a few questions. Can you please tell me if the mother doesn't want the biological father to take the baby? Is there an answer in this bill? None. The second question is, where will the father take the child? What is the fact that he took her out of the maternity home and then transferred her to another maternity home? What is it? I think there's a lot of questions here, you know, if you go from a non-, well, humanitarian-popular point of view, but from a legal point of view that there's no answer. In general, it seems to me that with these bills you can get to the mice, you know, in an anecdotes, you can get to the mice. It seems to me that legislative proposals should be of a more complex nature. And they have to be answered in the bill itself. I understand everyone is voting for this bill. Well, how come we don't vote for that? But we need to be more serious about the legislative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u69	Yuri Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u70	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, if only one orphan. becomes less than one orphan because of the operation of this law, and he can act. And I want to thank the Peacekeeper for, in principle, proposing this bill. Believe me, this law and the warnings provided by the General Scientific and Scientific Administration can work, particularly in the third paragraph, where they write "problems may arise regarding the establishment of parenthood". So, Your Honor, I want to tell you that in the bill, another formula, that's what I'm saying for Bordenyuk, when he signs the remark, that he also thinks he's signing it, I'm not the first time in this rostrum I've said it. And it says, "a father who is not in a marriage whose fatherhood has been established." [[Comma]] I mean, we don't have any doubts that he's a father. There is no maternity home. So every time you have an orphan, it's going to be smaller. And they're going to be less and less orphans. Because of this, I see absolutely no obstacles, and I ask the committee to have the law adopted in both the first reading and in general, because there is nothing to be done here. All the problems that are written that seem to be problems, in the comments of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, are sucked out of their fingers. And finally, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you. You know, I sit in shock and I think, well, your political power, the People's Party, has now voted in favour of the anti-national project! I just can't figure it out. But I can't understand: should the name of everything Ukrainian be removed in Ukraine today, should everything be completely destroyed? But today your President said, "For Ukraine!" And I agree with him on that. And that's what we do! Let's accept this bill, but we're not going to accept it that you're sorry for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u71	Dear national deputies, dear colleague Yuri Anatoliyovich! I care so much about the entire Parliament that I let the faction out of my sight. I'll make amends. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Notice, in general, how strange the situation is that we regulate a father - child relationship by law. And you can imagine what would happen to this child if. They're going to give the baby where they're going to go. This is the problem with the morals of our society. I understand, I'm saying we're forced to, you know. Forced. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 143 of the Ukrainian Family Code regarding the father’s obligation to take the child out of the maternity home. Registration number 607. [[17:20:46]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there was an offer to accept in general, no objection? Is there a denial? There's a denial we can't accept. Dear colleagues, the committee denies it. I propose to vote in favour of the shortened procedure for preparing this bill for second reading. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[17:21:26]] For 240 Thus, the committee is obliged to prepare this bill for the second reading of the reduced procedure, that is, for the next plenary week. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tourism Act on the obligation to establish categories of tourism infrastructure objects. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports, and Tourism. Alexander Viktorovich suggests that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[17:22:15]] For 202 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u72	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The purpose of drafting a Ukrainian bill amending the Tourism Act is to encourage hotel-based business competition, such as improving the quality of hotel services, withdrawing accommodation from the shadows and increasing budget income. The draft law also seeks to introduce Ukrainian legislation on the provision of tourism services in accordance with European Union legislation. The existing system of mandatory safety certification and voluntary certification is primarily based on bureaucratic approaches to the establishment of hotel categories, and its standards themselves are outdated and do not meet the modern requirements of the tourism service market. During the 11 years of action, only 1,000 648 hotels and similar accommodation facilities have been certified and certified in Ukraine. Although the hotel services market is estimated to be between 8 and 9,000, about 70 per cent is in the shadows. The bill provides for the abolition of mandatory hotel certification on a security requirement. And the introduction of a mandatory categorization system, i.e. stardom, which also included safety, health and security of the property of the guests. Because the compulsory certification procedure almost completely duplicates the powers of other bodies. It should be noted, however, that the defined category is an indicator of the comfort and security of services that allow tourists to obtain complete and reliable information on the means of accommodation and to compare price-quality ratios. Russia has waived such certification in 2003 and has introduced a new classification of tourist industry facilities, including hotels and other accommodation facilities, mountain routes and beaches last year. The United Kingdom, which had several hotel classifications, introduced a national quality standard and, as a matter of urgency, in 2010, all up to one accommodation facility had to confirm the earlier category. Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and other countries, prior to the accession of the European Union, have brought the legal instruments on hotels to the same European standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u73	Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u74	developed by the hospitality confederation in December 2009. The above-mentioned draft law is supported by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine, the leading hotel associations of Ukraine, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and many experts in tourism and hospitality. A large number of scientists, entrepreneurs and hotel business experts in Ukraine are working on the further development of the mandatory categorization mechanism. The comments contained in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be taken into account in the changes to the established categories: hotels and other facilities intended for the provision of temporary accommodation services approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of 29 July 2009. [[No. 803]] The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism considered the bill at its meeting and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council on first reading. The draft law also reviewed and supported the Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee. Thank you for your attention. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u75	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like you to sign up for this. Yes, your name, please. Alexander Edin, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u76	Dear colleagues. This bill is designed to solve really important problems with regard to emergency farming in Ukraine. Today we need to improve the legislative and regulatory base of Ukraine in the area of the provision of tourism services to the requirements of European Union legislation. And the existing system for certification of toilet business, which today is, is opaque, corrupt and does not match the best practice in the world. The changes proposed in the bill are perfectly right and will contribute to the achievement of the stated goal. This will also allow the emergency business in Ukraine to develop dynamically and improve its quality. I am therefore convinced that this bill needs to be supported on a basis, and in the second reading procedure it needs to be processed and taken into account the comments made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u77	Victor Terrence, "BUT" faction, Fatherland. Do you?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u78	Tomenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u79	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a serious problem so that we do not perform miracles under the idea of entrepreneurship. What's going on today? Today, there are several categories that deal with the placement of citizens and where certification and standardization take place. What do the authors propose? This system should be discontinued and introduced by means of a permit, a certificate, but not only by hotels, but also by all facilities designed to provide temporary accommodation. So we now have thousands of houses in rural tourism. We have thousands of objects, such as people in villages, such as Carpathians, who drive and cannot live in a hotel, and they remove one room. Now the Cabinet of Ministers will develop what kind of testimony we need. Imagine the cost of renting a room in a rural house in Carpathians if they have to go through all the mandatory witnessing procedures approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. So I think we should go the other way, exclusively to the hotels. How should hotels be handled? There's a system of self-organizing toilet business around the world. Associations themselves determine the principles to avoid unfair competition and to prevent those who work poorly from being marketed. They're actually telling the state, like this kind of categorical machine, how to set these stars. That's one story. And that's the way we need to go. And as for the simple people who rent a room for those who come to rest or for rural green tourism, well, that's trouble. If we introduce a witness, we will destroy what is written in the law. What kind of business? We're destroying the whole area of small business that's in this area. So I think the authors went the wrong way. And you have to go back to that system that once again exists in the world: hotels separately and green tourism, small businesses need to develop a variety of incentives, such as stimulants, benefits and so forth. That's why I'm only supposed to regulate hotels. And in this case, I support our scientific expertise, which thinks the bill should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u81	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u82	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I'm talking to you about what this bill will bring? First of all, I think it violates the Constitution, which protects consumers' rights as a duty to the State. It's making things worse now. He simply proposes, article 18, which spoke of protecting the interests of consumers and the state on the security of tourism, life, and health of citizens, property and the environment. She spoke of a list of tourist services subject to mandatory certification regarding safety for life and health, protection of property and environmental protection, eliminating all of these. And that's why I think it's absolutely right for the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Mikola Tomenka to say that he sees more harm than the adoption of such a bill than the benefits. I don't see any value in this bill. Unless it is beneficial for those who make these changes to article 19 of Part Four, where it is proposed to establish them. The procedure for establishing a suitable category for hotels and other temporary placement facilities is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the law. Who will recognize them in the world? You think you're doing, don't you think you're suggesting?Oh, my God! Around today they come and look, and they say, show a certificate, show what it's with, and how it's harmonised? What are we going to show? What are we going to show? What will be the responsibility? That's why I think that in this case, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority made a perfectly right proposal, and they said it was appropriate to reject this bill. There were many other arguments that the MPs now said. I don't think there's any need for such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u83	Jaroslav Jojik, please microphone. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u84	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. The draft law states that its main purpose is to distinguish between standardization and mandatory certification of short-term housing and mandatory categorization. The design at first sight is noble but unrealistic. The introduction of mandatory categorization is only appropriate for tourist infrastructure: hotels, mini-hotels, motels, etc., but it takes time to develop and implement a categorization system that is practically not available for Euro-2012. In addition to hotel complexes, there are many tourist subjects, private gardens, mini hotels, as Mr. Tomenko spoke about. And for such a facility, safety in the provision of services is a priority. It is the certification procedure that confirms the security of the provision of services.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u85	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u86	Throughout the world, the standardization of services in tourism has been recognized as relevant and promising, and the World Tourism Organization has repeatedly stressed the need to develop international standards, to develop the only progressive approaches to the organization of tourism services. So I also appeal to the deputies and support Tomenko and Karmazin's position to reject this bill, by supporting the conclusion of the relevant Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u87	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I propose to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tourism Act. [[on the obligation to establish a category of tourist infrastructure objects]] [[Registration number 7293]] [[17:34:23]] For 231 Decision taken. I am announcing a draft Air Passenger Rights Protection Act if they refuse to land, cancel or delay their aircraft. [[Registration number 5195]] At the same time, honourable colleagues, there is a letter from the National MP Feldman with such meaning that “Please postpone consideration of my draft law in connection with my absence from the session hall for objective reasons”. I'm voting on the transfer. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:35:12]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a draft law on the features of the design, construction and operation of the large ring road around Kiev is being submitted to your consideration. The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Konovaluk Valerius Ilichi, co-rapporteur with the Transport and Liaison Committee of Sinice Artem Mikolaiovich. Recommends that the committee deal with the issue of the reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[17:36:00]] For 203 Decision taken. Yes, the reporter is Connovaluk Valerius Ilichi, please. Yes, Blue Artem Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u88	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! On May 19, the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Transport and Communications discussed a draft law on the features of the design, construction, and operation of a large ring road around Kiev, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Konovaluk. The bill defines the features of the design and construction of a large ring road around Kiev. Modern road infrastructure is envisaged to support road users. Construction of a large ring road around the city of Kiev will bring international transport corridors together and create conditions for the deployment of Kiev’s transit road network. The committee believes that the adoption of the bill will contribute to the economic development of the region, provide safe economic and comfortable conditions for road traffic, and further development of the road network. A bill was discussed in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the Committee’s request. The draft law is supported by taking into account the comments made regarding the provisions of the bill on the design of the ring road without prior agreement with landowners and the extraction of land without special permission. The comments of the Cabinet of Ministers will be carefully considered on the committee in preparing the bill for second reading. As a result of the discussion at the meeting, the committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law on the characteristics of the design, construction and operation of a large ring road around Kiev on 26 March 2010, submitted by the national deputy of Ukraine, Konovaluk V.I. [[Registration number 6227]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Kings. And then he'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u90	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I apologize. It was I who pressed the Queen's button by accident. But once again, here's what I want to say. Note how the document itself was written: “Draft Law on the Features of Design, Construction and Exploitation of a Large Ring Road”. What's the right here anyway? What's the high road for? Set aside the area. Supreme Council. Deploy the land and start construction. It is just surprising that today, through the adoption of the law, we make decisions about the construction of the ring road. It's not even funny, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u91	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u92	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Actually, Valery Ananiyovich Beviz said what I was going to say. Which is obviously not the subject of a bill here. It raises doubts about the regulation of the matter in general by law, a separate law. For it is clear to all that the ring road should not be just around Kiev. Again, as in the previous speech, I would like to say that bills must be of a complex and systematic nature. They have to regulate real relationships, not take one moment and bring it into law, it's not a separate law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u93	Yes, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u94	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear people's deputies, I absolutely agree with my colleagues' thoughts, and Oleg Zarubinsky's, and Valery Behwaelz's that this is not a law at all. We could have done the same. Or let's go ahead with the adoption of laws on the features of design, construction, the operation of a large ring road around Donetsk, Odessa, Lviv, Dnipropetrovska, Cerkas, Chernigova and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u95	Lugansk, you also have the right to do so. Absolutely nice neighborhood, even the Whisperer has the right to do it, but it's not gonna be a bill anymore, it's something else. That's why it was absolutely correct in the observation of scientific and expert management, where it's written that there are no rules for regulating legal relations at all and that they don't regulate the most important issues of social life, as it was adopted in law enforcement, it could be a program, it could be anything. And when I read it, I saw, for example, article four predicts how many meters the road should be 13.5. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u97	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u98	Well, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u99	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, because I am again addressing the authors of the laws, let's think about reducing the number of laws and improving their quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u100	Thank you. People's Deputy Lemza, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u101	I fully support those who speak to me. And what I'm saying is that the only way we can use it is to put into practice the proposals proposed by the project in the form of a targeted program for building and exploiting a large ring road. And these issues are resolved through the Cabinet of Ministers, and there is no need to create a new law. I fully agree with and support the findings of the General Legal Authority that the bill should be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. In the form of a national target program, it has and can be implemented. Well, that's all. I support my friends who came to see me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u102	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, I agree with the point of view that this may not be the subject of this law, this problem that is now in Ukraine and is in the city of Kiev. But I'm pointing out to you that this is really a problem that applies to every resident of our capital. And every day, when we're moving with you to one side of the city, we see this problem. We see the problem of how the city council in the past solved this issue because it didn't allow transportation at some point in time or at some point in time, but it doesn't solve it. Clearly, then, attention should be paid. I think that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, perhaps you would like to refer to the Cabinet of Ministers on the possibility of including this issue in the national problem. Because it's very relevant, it's very big, and they need a comprehensive discussion and a comprehensive solution. Because of the fact that the lands taken to this day are privately owned and that the second must pass, the national program needs to be put in place, and it needs to be implemented because the capital cannot continue to function without this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Valérie Konovaluk came up as the author of the bill. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u105	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm sorry, dear colleagues, because the order of the day, it's moving on. I'm sure the question is really, really hard. And I want to remind my colleagues that it cost almost 2 billion euros to build the first car in the Ukraine of Kiev-Odes. This is probably four times the cost of this van in Germany. I'm sure, and we don't have infrastructure, we've repaired this road, and I'm convinced that the general significance of both the Euro-2012 and our transit capabilities in general is very relevant. Public programs are national, they are regulated, and they are also adopted by the decision of the Supreme Council. We know that too. So I'm still looking at the possibility of confirming this issue, perhaps by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. But this, I'm sure, is what we need not only in the Supreme Council, but, above all, the inhabitants and citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our consideration of the question, namely the draft Law on Design, Construction and Exploitation of the Grand Ring Road around Kiev. Registration number 6227. The Committee's conclusion. The bill can be adopted as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that it is appropriate to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to incorporate it into national legislation in the form of a state-wide targeted integrated programme. At the same time, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for the first adoption on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 6227]] Please identify yourself. [[17:46:50]] For two. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative for further development. [[17:47:19]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on the simplification of the conditions of access to the telecommunications market]] [[Registration number 7031]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Morocco, Yuri Mikolayovich. Under the reduced procedure, the proposal was just insistent. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[17:48:03]] For-200 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u107	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! You are invited to consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation. Registration number 7031. The purpose of the bill is to facilitate access to the telecommunications market. To this end, it is proposed to abolish the licensing of seven of the eleven activities that are now licensed under the current law. This approach is consistent with the policy of the President and the Government to deregulation of business activities and to reduce the number of permits required for its launch. The Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the National Communications Management Commission, the Chief Research and Expert Office supports the adoption of the law as a basis. The Transport and Communications Committee considered the bill at its meeting. During the discussion, a number of objective comments were made that would be taken into account on second reading. The Profile Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt Bill 7031 as a basis. Please support the opinion of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. Yes, please put your name on the board. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u109	Dear colleagues! This is the bill that is being monitored by the European Union, as it will facilitate the liberalisation of access to radio communications services. But I took the floor to support this bill, based on the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. The fact is that such liberalisation, the reduction of barriers to licensing, will enable us to increase our jobs. This will certainly increase wages in existing industrial enterprises, facilities that provide such telecommunications services, and budget accounting. So I'm sure and I'm sure that the vast majority of the session room today supports this bill that has, no doubt, a positive focus on me. At the same time, I think that this bill and the author will agree can only be adopted in the first reading. Since we need to make a number of changes, amendments, additions, or eventually refinements to the mechanism on which this bill will be implemented, both in the field of norm-technics and in the field of technology and in the implementation of a set of standards that are foreseen here. But in general, Ukrainian legislation in the field of telecommunications will certainly be approaching the European Union’s legislation, recommendations, and standards of the International Power Union. And once again, I want to remind my colleagues that we have ratified this convention in due course, and Europe is doing constant monitoring of how it is being carried out in Ukraine. I call for this bill to be supported in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u110	Yes, Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u111	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In this bill there are obvious positives we now have a lot of talk about the need to improve the investment climate in Ukraine. This involves, as we understand, much of the deregulation of the economy. In this case, two positions, in my opinion, contribute to this, namely: the bill sets out a list, with an exclusive list of reasons for refusing to grant a license to use a radio frequency resource. In general, it is a normal European practice when it is clearly established and why it is not licensed. So it's not a volunteer approach, it's a clearly defined, precocious approach for the applicator. One second. Cancelling arbitrary activity from the implementation of electronic devices and radiation devices. And the third moment. This promotes further development and improves the investment climate in telecommunications. It is in this area that there is now a serious competition for an investor, a serious fight, and we have to win this fight. Well, one more moment. Now, my colleague Suhiy pointed me out, and he's obviously right that by reducing arbitrary procedures when a message can claim his wish to participate in the radio field of Ukraine, he's obviously reducing the possibility or the hypothetical corruption component. Because where there are permits, there is an opportunity to abuse and make money from those who grant these permits. Therefore, based on what is said, there is obviously a point in supporting this bill. The People's Party faction will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m1.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt a bill on the basis of the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, who believes that a bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the simplification of the conditions of access to the telecommunications market]] [[Registration number 7031]] Please vote. [[17:54:01]] For 295 Decision Adopted Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered all the issues that were scheduled for Tuesday. I thank you for your effective work. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work from 10 a.m. to Wednesday.
