ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:49]] Cards were registered in the 378 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, on September 23, 2011, the National Deputy of Ukraine, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Science and Education, member of the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko – "Fatherschina", renowned scientist and political scientist Vladimir Ivanovich Polochalo. Please honor our colleague’s memory. Please, have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 20 to 23 September 2011. Six plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, 74 were discussed, 14 laws and 25 regulations were adopted, 15 bills were adopted, one bill was sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, six bills were returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, 26 bills and one draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, one law was passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, two laws were sent to the committee for further processing, and 122 parliamentary questions were announced. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. According to this statement, and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy, Omelchenka Alexandra Alexandrovitch, from the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. The factions and groups would like to sign up for the performance. Names of the national MPs, please. Špak Vasil Fedorovich, faction of the People's Party. Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u2	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Sooner or later, we want to draw your attention to the speculations that are taking place with land. The situation has worsened in anticipation of the introduction of the earth’s market. The shadowy privatization of agricultural land has reached such an extent that it will soon be no longer available to offer a normal land market. In ways that are not provided for by the Earth Code, trade in land is a deceptive way of transferring corporate rights to land rations to legal or natural persons who are usually not registered in the territories. Land of unexploded rations, land of stock and reserve, as well as land of scientific research institutions, is being stockpiled with a powerful speculative financial resource that started the movement of land without the consent of landowners. Many of the leased agricultural arrangements have been planted with weeds or sown with crops just to distract people from what the earth does not walk, that is, the time when the earth becomes a commodity and, in fact, the secondary market of the earth will be opened. And this is happening even though the President of Ukraine on the Council of Regions has sharply criticised the illegal dissipation of land and has given appropriate services an immediate order. Otherwise, such a situation will lead to social discontent. Hundreds of thousands of hectares of land cannot be allowed to concentrate in one hand, while millions of villagers remain unemployed and without solving their social problems. As a result, sifting is disrupted, and the product, especially direct consumption, is saturated with a large number of pesticides. The long - term management of agricultural production is completely out of bounds. The prospect of developing an animal sector is lost, since land around animal farms and complexes is rented by companies and natural persons who do not engage in animal farming. And that's why you have to cook the food, especially the weight, for 60 miles, or even for 100 kilometers. Another important problem in the context of this issue and ecologically related is the removal of manure due to the absence of land. Therefore, the faction believes that before a balanced decision is taken on the land market, it will prohibit the registration of corporate rights and the transfer to land leases of unexploded state and reserve funds, as well as the prohibition on scientific and research institutions of contract-making to land or whole property complexes in a manner not defined by legislation. Only by stopping the untried monopoly on land use can we talk about the market and the movement of the earth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u3	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the MP's Reform for the Future tasked me with bringing up to this day from this rostrum, our position, and drawing attention to the following issues. The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future endorses the initiative of the Head of State to humanize responsibility for crimes in the field of economic activity. In our view, the solution has been delayed for at least 15 years. Because our legislation, and we can see it, is overburdened by an excessive level of criminalization of crimes in the economic sphere. This has seriously hindered the free development of businesses, businesses, and, therefore, the economic and political freedoms of our citizens. In addition, this defect in domestic legislation has been used quite often by law enforcement authorities for reasons that are not based on a European view of the right to criminal responsibility of entrepreneurs. In summary, this has had a negative impact on the development of business in Ukraine and, above all, its investment attractiveness. So our group supports these initiatives and suggests that they be put into action as quickly as possible. In addition, we would like to draw attention today to another one of the things that concerns our voters very much, and we have seen this in the last week when we worked in the districts. This is a sad decision No. 278 of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the need for currency exchange documents, especially a small number. It is known that after September 23, in all the places of exchange and banks in exchange for one Russian ruble, and this is, say, very relevant for our Kharkiv, where many people go to their relatives in Russia, they demand xerocopy, they require not only passports, but also Xeropscopy. Where do these xerocopies then go? Where do they accumulate? Citizens ask a reasonable question. To our firm conviction, the motivation of the National Bank of Ukraine to fight the legalization of the exchange process does not withstand any criticism. Agree that dirty money is being washed, not in exchangers, but in conversion centers. This is well - known to all and law enforcement agencies. And the government of the National Bank simply created a host of inconveniences for millions of ordinary Ukrainians. In addition, law enforcement officials note that with the introduction of this regulation near the exchangers, so-called "changers" have been activated, which offer to exchange currencies without any documents, but at a different rate. Economists also predict that the tinning of exchange processes will lead to a sharp reduction in the amount of revenue coming into the state budget. Therefore, our group considers it necessary to make adjustments to Decree 278. Well, at least don't ask the citizens of passports and their copies to exchange money if they don't exceed a small amount, let's say 8,000 dollars. This will remove the social tension that has arisen after the so-called passporting and will stop the growth of shadow operations that have been and continue to go through so-called "tiny shifts." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u5	Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next up will be Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, the authorities in Ukraine are speeding up the wall between themselves and the people. These are not just high iron fences that quickly grew up before the President's Administration and the Supreme Council. The authorities at all levels have turned their backs on themselves. The last example is the unprecedented 2012 budget project. Instead of the benefits of 16 vulnerable population categories, it's a bubble hole. 10 million Ukrainians want to cut off payments that allow them to make ends meet in any way. But the cost of maintaining power is increasing at a stagnant rate to nearly 17 billion dollars. And for all the frozen or even reduced social programs on the shoulders of the bar, they drop just 13.9 billion dollars. Once again, the funding of the IMF, the BSI and the Henprocuratorium is increasing by more than a billion. For the government, these are the most social articles that he finances primarily, as in classical police states, because only for muscle and hope. In anticipation of the default and the fall of the course, not only does the authorities enter the citizens ’ pockets, but even a few dollars are spent trying to get into every passport. The equation for North Korea. What's next? Card products? The wall was blocked from opposition, from prison — from Timoshenko, Lucenko, and other political prisoners. The wall of deafness and boycott is from opposition MPs to parliaments, from our ideas and proposals. Instead, the authorities want to extend their Electoral Law through Parliament so that they can be falsified. Thus, Europe’s critical view of the Presidential Bill is ignored. And the parliamentary majority has no intention of simply rejecting other electoral laws today. The authorities think she's very clever. And every time he tries to play in the thimbles of both his people and the civilized world. We should remember how such games end. In Ukraine, a fearsome call rang two weeks ago. The Afghans and the Chernobyls stormed into Parliament, which is called, got it! The situation in the country is becoming increasingly explosive. Therefore, we propose to hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council with the participation of the President, the Prime Minister and the members of the government. We need to have a frank discussion of all the acute issues from socio-economic problems, the new crisis to the corrupt judicial system and the end of political persecution. Let the President finally communicate with the country not because of his environment or foreign diplomats, but here, in Parliament, he finally hears the opposition that represents most of society. Therefore, the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” calls for the majority to support Arsenija Yatsenuk’s 9225 decision on such a special session. If the authorities continue to bury their heads in the sand, these problems will not go away. On the contrary, the threat of a massive social explosion will increase with each day. Recall how the majority of the deceased Tuesday’s deputies hid their parliamentary badges. But no "Berkuts" will protect their citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u7	Mikola Tomenko, please. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, today is actually ending the trial of Yulia Timoshenko, and we have a paradoxical situation where the whole country, practically the whole of Europe, hears the charges against Timoshenko. And no one has the opportunity to hear what the defense is like and Timoshenko. We have at least five arguments that challenge the prosecution’s charges against Timoshenko and give us reason to claim a false trial. All the materials that will be announced in the presentation, I'm ready to give any of the national MPs and journalists. So the first argument is the charge of exceeding power in Timoshenko's actions. Throughout the prosecution process, it was not clear which article of the law was violated by Yulia Timoshenko when she negotiated with the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation and signed it, as a result of these negotiations, her directive. The evidence presented in the indictment and the materials collected in the criminal case do not indicate any overstatement of authority or official authority in Timoshenko's actions when signing directives on January 19th. The second argument. According to the indictment, Timoshenko had no right to issue directives, since they were to be issued only by the Cabinet of Ministers as a collegiate body. Rather, the documents contained in the case clearly confirm that the Prime Minister had the right to give directives, and that the Prime Minister's directives were issued to negotiate rather than to sign contracts. Timoshenko's position in this case is protected by letter from the Minister of Justice of Lavrinovich to the Head of the Security Service and by a letter from the Attorney General of Medvedjk, today the First Deputy Secretary of the RNBO, Head of the President's Administration. Both letters point to the fact that, I quote from Lavrinović: "The Ukrainian legislation provides for the approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of directives to delegations or representatives of Ukraine regarding the conduct of negotiations and the signing of only international treaties. In this context, NAC delegation Naftogaz's directives to negotiate a contract for the sale of natural gas approved by the Prime Minister cannot, in our opinion, be considered in terms of directives." Thus, the prosecutor’s second charge is fully challenged by the defence, the acting minister of justice, and the Attorney General’s Office. The third argument. The third, and one of the greatest, charges involved the loss of Timoshenko to the Ukrainian State. The amount of damage in Naftogaz NAK's person when buying gas for manufacturing and technical costs is a unique theoretical way of producing billions of dollars. The members of the commission were invited to the meetings of the C.R.I., put before them the fact that the damage was already accounted for -- and in the presence of the employees of the C.I.A., they were forced to sign the document. This address is available in court records. Instead, according to NAC Naftogaz's financial documents, it is clear that in 2009 the contract was awarded to NAC Naftogazu's profit of 3.2 billion dollars compared to 2008. Thus, the financial documents, the expert documents to be protected, confirm exactly the opposite of the charges, NAK Naftogaz was profitable, not corrupt as the indictment claims. Recital four: Regarding corruption. The material of the case does not contain any of those documents, which even indirectly served to confirm that there are signs of corruption in Julius Timoshenko’s actions. The fifth argument. As our material is convincingly proved, the whole thing from the beginning and to the end contained falsifications of material. In particular, the main evidence of the charge is the Prime Minister's directive from the 19th to the case file, not the original, but the copy, and it contains not the personal signature of Timoshenko, but the facsimile. Experts followed documents that were not directly available in the files. Vladimir Mikhailovich, a few theses, and I'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u9	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u10	According to the extract protocol, the Naftogaz NAC has removed 506 sheets of documents from Ukraine, and there are twice as many in the materials. The case files include evidence of witnesses who were not present in this criminal case. A series of regulations and protocols have been drawn up on a nonexistent date, including a series of documents dated April 31 and a series dated December 17, 2011. The D.A. says it's a description. If this is a description, then the entire trial against Timoshenko is a large description of the prosecution and the authorities. Thus, the general conclusion is clear: despite all the efforts of the prosecution, it has failed to give either one argument as to the violation of effective legislation by Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko in signing gas contracts. So our recommendation to the authorities, the team of professionals led by the strong President, to stop being afraid of the opposition and its leader, Yulia Timoshenko, and to fight it, not because of the court-martialed Berkutu, but to fight the elections. It's the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u11	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist faction. Please, your performance. Next is Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u12	Dear citizens of Ukraine! The recent events and the dramatic response of society to the very antisocial laws and reforms that are taking place in Tihypka to the international financial speculators of the IMF and the Ukrainian money bags indicate that people are finally waking up from a bit of a slumber story about a capitalist paradise. Communists have never voted or voted for any antisocial reform. We will never vote in favour of reducing the benefits and social assistance of those who have earned this right through hard work and loyal service to their people and to their country. I'm talking about both pension reform, and the government bill 9127, which was first read by IMF lobbyists. I'm talking about the reform of the JCG and the Housing Code and the so-called labour reform and the new Labour Code and the land reform. Under these reforms, a person can easily be thrown out into the street, deprived of housing, possessions, and jobs, and turned into a fortification. At present, government officials and IMF are proposing another reform — health reform. As a result of the proposed reform, not only the rural FAPs will be closed, hospitals closed, and clinics in many locations will be destroyed, and the remains of free medicine will be destroyed. Today, and we know that very well, even in large cities, we have to wait for an hour or more. And what to do after the restructuring, and just to put it simply, is to decommission a medical facility in a small settlement, when it's 50 to 60 kilometers from the nearest hospital. We never vote in favour of such reforms, and we call for our support, as the Afghans, the Chernobylites, war veterans and workers have done, as have tens of thousands of ordinary people throughout the country, who have supported the Company's position and have stood up to protect the social conquests that have been left to them from yet another Soviet socialist Ukraine, as have those who have actively joined our entire country's action: "Work, Protection, Wages", "Control Order, Justice." Those who participate in the popular referendum that we have initiated support the offer of Communists for Ukraine’s future. We urge us not to give in to the sweet talk of poor politicians, such as Deputy Prime Minister Tihypco, who assures that there is no need for IMF loans and that we need to raise tariffs and housing and utility prices, a transport link that needs to reduce the benefits and social assistance of small-scale populations, and so on. We turn to the government again: urgently resign from the occupied position of Tihypco and thus stop those antisocial reforms that are under way today, following IMF guidelines. We urge people to gather together and not allow the authorities to deceive the people at any time. If Afghans or black people today are able to trade concessions for themselves in power, let them remember that it will be at the expense of others — veterans, pensioners, disabled children, many children, and other categories of the population who, under different circumstances, are unable to protect themselves and their families. During the last week, local companies in all areas of Ukraine held hundreds of meetings with large cities, small towns, and villages. And there are people everywhere who are outraged by the policy imposed on Ukraine today by the world’s capital, outraged at the fact that the power for which they voted, which promised to improve their lives, today renounces its promises. We believe that the only way to rebuild Ukraine as an economically developed state is to radically change the ideology of reforms, the ideology of the social system. This is also the necessity today of replacing both the regime and the political system. Only on this road will Ukraine be independent and independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u13	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u14	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! Foreign policy is gradually being transformed by the efforts of the President of Ukraine and the State as a whole into a powerful tool to protect Ukraine’s national interests. In line with the conclusions of President Viktor Yanukovic's talks with the Russian Federation, we are gradually returning a constructive tone in the relationship between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, allowing for concrete results on the basis of the equal and mutually beneficial interests of both countries, as stated by the President of Ukraine. Ukraine is and will be an integral part of Europe’s energy security. The proposed format of the joint consortium for the administration of the gas transport system, with the participation of Ukraine, the European Union and Russia, provides an opportunity to create a very important balance of interests for all supplier States, transit States. Ukraine and consumers in Europe It's a guaranteed supply of energy resources, it's a way to determine techno-economically sound prices for natural gas, transit tariffs, etc. And this is certainly a very important factor in creating a transparent energy market across Europe without economic and political pressure. The final stage of the negotiations between Ukraine and the European Union on the signing of an association agreement on Ukraine's EU membership under the conditions of free trade is of fundamental importance. The latest negotiations have enabled us to significantly strengthen the position of Ukrainian producers in European markets, to increase the supply quotas by 2-4 times, including in the first half of the current year, Ukraine has for the first time in 20 years a positive balance in the import of agricultural products into the European Union. Ukraine has reached a very high rate of growth in cooperation with the European Union, a 30 - percent increase in trade in Ukraine, and a 79 - percent increase in direct investment from the European Union in Ukraine in all years of independence. This is our way to strategically modernize Ukraine's economy and create modern European standards on Ukrainian land. This makes it possible, including the consolidation of the process and the strengthening of the democratic institutions of the State, the society of power as an inseparable factor in increasing the competitiveness of our economy. A very responsible stage, which is also confirmed by a review by the Supreme Council of the State Economic and Social Development Programme project and the 2012 budget project. There are positive developments, including an increase in social spending, including budget salaries of $14 billion, budget salaries of 19 billion. But there is a need to work on the budget in terms of balancing the interests of central and local authorities, delegateing powers with the resources of local governments. Therefore, honourable Members, we are confident that only a consolidated state, strained, constructive, at a high level of work, is able to meet the inherent and external risks.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u15	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u16	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the factions are over. Regarding the proposals made by the national deputies, I ask that the secretariat prepare appropriate addresses and assignments. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to Tuesday’s October 4th issues. The draft Law on Anti-Crist Measures in Housing and Utilities is being announced for consideration. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[10:31:05]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine’s national deputy, Valérie Konovaluk. The Correspondent is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Zinovo Skutjak. Please, Valérie Illich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! It's a topical issue that concerns the activities of the housing industry and the anti-crisis measures that we need to consider today. This is due to the fact that the debt of residential businesses is more than 20 billion dollars, when the debt of the population for the services received amounts to 12 billion dollars. I am convinced that this is a matter of improper housing financing and lack of a legal base and an effective mechanism for investing in additional investment, imperfect tariff policy, critical state of the basic housing and utility funds. I am asking because this bill was introduced a year and a half ago, and today some part of the bill is no longer relevant. So given the importance of this issue, I'm going to ask the people's deputies to send this bill for further work. We already have additional offers. And to look at this, probably along with the Cabinet of Ministers, because we feel every day that the housing situation is getting worse. And it's not only an opportunity to look at the increases in tariffs that we're offered, but also to create a single system, an effective system, a more efficient system, so that we not only create conditions, market conditions in this area, but also give people a normal quality of normal services, create effective mechanisms so that we don't increase debt, and give them every opportunity to do business, not in a way that's harmful, but to develop and improve their core funds. So the question is relevant enough. And in the rating of the problems that concern citizens today, the problems of the JCG.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u19	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u20	The questions of the LHC today take first place. So I'm going to go to the Supreme Council: put this question into processing, and take into account the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u21	Thank you. The co-narrator will be Majbeard Sergey Fedorovich, head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u22	The bill was considered at a meeting of the Committee on 17 November 2010. The author's explanatory note to the bill states that this law aims at overcoming the crisis in housing and utilities, promoting its development and ensuring the realization of citizens'rights to quality housing and utility services. I would like to recall that the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2009-2014, which is a road map for overcoming crises in this sector, is now being implemented by law. The implementation of the programme's mandated tasks is one of the Government's priorities. It should also be noted that the Ukrainian Law on the National Commission for the Regulatory of the Public Services Market is currently being implemented, which provides for greater efficiency of public regulation and control of the activities of natural monopolies in the public services market, as well as for monitoring the establishment and application of tariffs in the public services market. With regard to the definition of the powers of the State Housing and Commune Inspection, it is appropriate to amend the Law on Basic Principles of Public Oversight in the Field of Economic Activities. The Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine noted several violations in the rule of law during the preparation and submission of the bill. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Chernobyl Disaster proposes that a bill be sent to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to finalize. The Committee notes that the implementation of the bill will have an impact on the income and expenditure of the budget and local budgets, while the author of the accounts is not represented. In view of the foregoing, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill should be rejected as such, which had lost its relevance. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to reject the bill. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for substantial elaboration and that the author himself has accepted the bill. If you have no objection, let us put to the vote a proposal to return the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative, which he is working on if that desire remains. No objections? I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative, registration number 6200. Please vote. [[10:37:01]] For 219 The decision is not taken. I'll put it to a vote, then I'll put a proposal for acceptance on the ground if you don't take it. Dear fellows, I've set aside. I want to tell you again, I'm putting to the vote a proposal on. Peter Mikolaiovich, I know what I'm saying. The bill is either the basis or the return of the subject of the legislative initiative. If not supported as a basis, it is considered automatically rejected. I'm voting on the bill as a basis. Please be sure. [[10:37:52]] For the The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding State control in the area of housing and utilities. [[Watched]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic. The focal point is the head of the Subcommittee on Construction, Urban, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy of Majbeard Sergey Fedorovich. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[10:38:39]] For 225 Decision taken. Please. Vladimir Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u24	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. Dear colleagues! In deciding how to vote in favour of this bill, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the area of housing-communal agriculture is perhaps the only sector in Ukraine that has not undergone any change and transformations because time is coming and reality is changing. Today, in the housing and utility system, there are government authorities that moderate housing, there are private structures, there are corporate structures. And there is no State oversight of this sphere. It's not in both energy and security, in the exploitation of housing, in many other areas that are regulated by laws that are now in Ukraine, but are not synchronized among themselves. They are not such as to give a clear interpretation of one or the other concepts and even actions in the event of an accident or other situation. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that in preparing this law, I've just tried to bring everything to the only denominator. But I realize that today, maybe for many in this room, it's not a basic question: that many people are destroying housing -- and they're falling, many people don't realize that the water we get is not controlled by anyone, many people see the burial going literally where anyone wants it, and there's no responsibility for it. That's why this law just introduced one of the articles to be responsible for the misdemeanours in housing and utilities. Regrettably, the state housing inspection has been canceled, which has replaced the role of the Jacks, as today's human money collectors, with a monitoring body that could actually provide a level playing field for both consumers and service providers. But it was canceled. So I have no illusions about this bill. I realize that today in the hall, perhaps more important to many is the question of the electoral system, there, others. But I'd like to ask you to realize that one day we're going to have to put order in this system as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u25	Thank you, too. Sergey Fedorovich Maybeard, please, regarding the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u26	The Committee considered the bill at its meeting on 20 October 2010. The main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion of 05.10.2010, noted that, with the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on the National Commission for the Regulation of Public Services of Ukraine, the bill had lost its relevance and it was appropriate to amend the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of Public Oversight in the Field of Economic Affairs in order to determine the powers of the State housing and utility inspection. Moreover, there is no such body to date, and its powers are transferred to the State Architectural and Construction Inspection. The Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine noted several violations of norm-making equipment during the preparation and submission of the bill. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, Disaster Management has expressed a large number of comments, in particular on the definition of an exhaustive list of grounds for cessation of economic activity and a list of violations which are grounds for issuing a prescription or other requiring instrument. The Committee on Budget Affairs noted that the implementation of the bill would have an impact on the spending portion of the budget, although no economic, financial justification was provided to the authors. Last year, the Ministry of Housing and Utilities requested that the bill not be supported through the comments already noted. As a result of its consideration, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to amend some Ukrainian laws on State control of housing and utilities, registration number 6549, to be rejected. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Andrey Pavlovski, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u28	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Dear fellow countrymen! Mr. Volodymyr Bondarenko has put forward a current bill proposing to bring order and to establish state control in such important areas as housing, utilities, water supply, heat supply, well-being, as well as funeral business. Because what is happening now with the same well - being, with the quality of water supply, is known that most diseases from the use of inefficient water are virtually out of control, and if there is, it is not what is needed in the state, and what affects the health and life of our citizens. And in Vladimir Bondarenko, it is clear which authorities will be authorized to exercise this state control, the rights of officials regarding State control. So I count that no matter what anyone says, some lobbyist criticism does not sound like this law, it should be adopted in the first reading, and if there is a point to it, it should be further developed before the second reading. And that is why the faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko – Fatherland” proposes this bill on State control in the area of housing and utilities, to support, adopt, on first reading and on the basis of the relevance and importance of the topic. Please support the bill of Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u29	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine" faction is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u30	Vladimir Karpuk. Please give it to Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u31	Ruslan Knazevich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u32	Dear Head, dear colleagues! What are you talking about? There was a lot of talk from the committee, and, in principle, I see that this is resonating not only with the conclusion of the committee, but also with the scientific expertise of the board, that the bill is obsolete and, in principle, after the adoption of the National Commission for the Regulation of the Communal Services Market Act, there is no point in settling these issues in a special bill. But what I'm saying is, in fact, the main purpose of this bill was to extend the small housing and utility reform we've been trying, including through the above-mentioned National Commission Bill. And this bill is not at all contrary to that law, but rather complements it and expands it. It's about the need to give real powers to the State Housing and Communal Inspection, because the Commission itself is still complaining that it has no real influence on the authorities of local self-government, including housing and tariff policies, and it has no real control over how self-government authorities, municipalities implement those directives, those recommendations that they offer as general documents for all of Ukraine. So the commission we created, we gave it the right to accept, it accepts it, and the way it's supposed to do it, and how it's done in practice, it can't do it. Therefore, if this bill is not even adopted today in the area of the mandate of the National Housing and Communal Inspectorate, it is absolutely necessary to implement the existing National Commission law. Until we do so, we will be playing ball at each other: the municipalities on board, the commission on self-government, and the visa on board now. The problem of housing-communal tariffs has both been solved and remains unresolved. So our faction will definitely propose a hall and vote in favour of this bill. If it doesn't pass, I'd like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u33	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u34	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Company of Ukraine will not support the bill, as it has a number of extremely serious remarks to it. But what I'd like to say is that I've taken the floor more to speak in order to both as Ukrainian national deputy and as head of the Council of Veterans' Organization of Ukraine to thank the Supreme Council Hall of Meetings, to thank the fellow MPs for not supporting, and, more specifically, to reject the previous bill, 6200, and to explain why. Because Bill 6200 is a bill that is exactly the same as the scandalous bill 9127 and 7562. It's about translating the solution to a whole range of problems, especially in the residential sector, into the benefit category of our citizens. It's proposed to make a similar phrase, i.e., "in terms and in order set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine", to the Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees of Their Social Protection," to the Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution, to the Law on Social Protection of the Children of War, and so on and so forth. The author of the bill wrote in the Explanatory Note that the bill does not require additional funding. That's true, but it's not true, because, on the contrary, this bill was designed to get the money out of the pockets of war veterans and war invalids and hand them over to the state budget. I am absolutely convinced that this is not only immoral in today’s situation but also criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u35	Finish up, please. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u36	I thank the MP once again for rejecting Bill 6200. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u37	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I draw your attention to this bill because it has no politics, there is no majority, there is no minority, there is no opposition. Please tell me, what is the main problem today in the housing industry because of the prism of our voters? And the problem is this two. On the one hand, those who receive utilities complain of their quality, their lack of transparency, their incomprehensibility, their absolute lack of financial justification. Those who provide these services complain about the state, because it is not clear who will negotiate with them on compensation for the benefits paid to 27 million Ukrainian citizens for the payment of housing and utility services. Therefore, this bill could certainly have been supported if the honourable colleague who introduced the bill had amended and supplemented the basic law of 2479. And I'm recommending that we make a proposal to the National Commission of Public Services Act. And you can vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. I'll remind you once again that the committee is proposing to reject the bill. The main scientific and export administration made their comments on the legislative initiative. At the same time, and in accordance with the Rules, and in accordance with the proposals made in the statements, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill based on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the exercise of State control in the area of housing and utilities. [[Watched]] [[Registration number 6549]] [[10:51:43]] For-63 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the second sentence: the return of the draft law to the right of the legislative initiative for pre-operation. [[10:52:09]] For-64 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u40	We are considering: the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce, the Rapporteur is the national deputy Kelestin Valerij Vasilovich, from Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich. [[on the list of plots]] [[Registration number 8712]] There's an offer under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:52:54]] For 205 Offer supported. Please, Valery Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u41	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Draft Law 8712 provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce, which removes the list of areas of cropland, beneficial fossils that can be made under the terms of the distribution agreements, such as that that prevents investment from being involved in the relevant sector and does not meet international practice. The need for adoption of the draft law is due to the objective need to improve legislation on the settlement of distribution agreements and to create favourable conditions for investment in Ukraine’s economy. According to part two of article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, by decree of 15 March 2006, approved a list of areas for breeding, beneficial fossils, which can be used under the terms set out in the production distribution agreements, which number about 30 areas, including the Skif Square. Since 2006, however, there has been no competition for the award of a distribution agreement on any part of this list. By including areas in the list, such areas were made available for general use in the drug use of both public companies, including NAC Nadra Ukraine, and companies that operate on the basis of private investment. Thus, almost 30 promising projects were effectively frozen, although their legalization might have brought considerable results to the state in terms of increased resources of exploration, increased production, new jobs, increased volumes, paid taxes, and so on. It should be noted that the approval of such a list of areas does not correspond to international practice. The distribution agreements are to be drawn up in respect of the areas on which the Government of Ukraine decides to conduct a corresponding competition for the right to make individual contracts. If such a decision is not available, it should not be frozen, but should be made available for general use, including through sale of a special permit for use at auction. The adoption of this bill will allow for the removal of unjustified restrictions created by the specified list and the simplification of the procedure for the conclusion of such agreements. This will increase the quality and quality of investment in the exploration of areas of nadr and the development of fossil deposits, both on terms of distribution and on general grounds. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u42	Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, head of the Committee on Economic Policy subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u43	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Product Distribution Agreements. This law, according to the author, has been adopted to allow for the removal of unjustified restrictions that create a list of areas of crop yields of beneficial fossils that can be used under the conditions set out in the distribution agreements. This list was approved by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers by the Order of 15 March 2006. [[No. 308]] And increase the effectiveness of investing in research into the areas of nadr and the development of crops of beneficial fossils, both on terms of distribution contracts and on general grounds. The committee considered this bill in 05/07/11. It should be noted that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a substantial statement to the bill and considered it appropriate to return it to the author for further work. There is also a decision by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, which recommends that the Committee on Economic Policy reject draft Ukrainian Law No. 8712. Nevertheless, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Product Distribution Agreements to be adopted on first reading as a basis. [[on the list of plots]] [[tabled by the People’s Deputy of Ukraine, Kelestin]] [[Registration number 8712]] [[of 20.0.2011]] And in the case provided for in the second part of article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u44	Shall we discuss it? Is it? Are they insisting? None. Then, with your permission, I'm voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Product Distribution Agreements. [[on the list of plots]] [[Registration number 8712]] Please vote. [[10:57:56]] For 226 Copy that. Honorable colleagues, respected colleagues, were invited to accept the committee as a foundation and as a whole. I'm putting this motion to a vote on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Product Distribution Agreements. Please vote. [[10:58:33]] For-32 The idea is not supported. So I'm asking the committee to work on, until the second reading. The question is: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage. [[concerning the granting of marine monumental status to underwater objects]] [[Registration number 8659]] The author suggests that we consider the simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[10:59:12]] For 217 Offer supported. Report by Shemchuk Viktor Viktorovich. From the Yavorowski Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u45	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! For your consideration, I'm proposing a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage. [[concerning the granting of marine monumental status to underwater cultural objects]] The bill is designed to preserve and protect underwater cultural objects by granting them special status. This is especially true of underwater objects, such as civilian vessels and warships of World War II, on which the remnants of tens of thousands of people rest. Today, 20 warships and passenger ships have been discovered near the Ukrainian coast, immersed in World War I and World War II, killing between a few dozen and 7,000 people. For example, in the Black Sea there is a sunken sanitation transport of the Black Sea Navy of the USS Armenia, which killed about 7,000 people, a warehouse of 23 hospitals. This catastrophe is the largest human casualties during World War II and the second largest marine disaster in human history. According to UNESCO, 4 thousand people were killed as a result of the shipwreck of Lenin, which was carried by Soviet prisoners of war, 2080, during the evacuation of the U.S. Navy from Crimea, by a ship called Totilo, on which 3,000 900 people were sunk. In comparison to all the famous Titanic, 1,513 people were killed. The bill proposes to take special protection over underwater cultural heritage and to grant them the status of marine memorial. The bill adds a list of listed objects of cultural heritage. Science and expertise has made a number of comments that can be taken into account in the preparatory phase for second reading. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage to grant subjects an underwater cultural heritage of the status of marine memorials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u46	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u47	Good morning, Ukraine! Well, at first glance, it might seem, as barbarians, we view our earthly heritage, our cultural heritage, and here, you see, we also decided to take a look at the water. But once again, it can only seem that way at first sight. Here the author partially exposed those colossal tragedies during World War II, which, of course, refer to the Black Sea basin, first of all, where ships died. The same ship called Lenin, which actually killed several military hospitals, and there were thousands of people there, it was all completely buried in the water. Because of this, it is a matter of really giving status to these very monuments, in the memory of those who have died, to give them the status of the memorial. It's a very good idea, a normal idea, it needs to be supported. Our legal office made a few remarks. One is that all of our memorials can be found only in the equatorial waters that belong to our State. He spoke about it in other people, in the law of the sea, as it were, and there is no need to repeat it. A thought that can be argued with. Why not repeat, for example, this bill? People, if someone reads this bill, professionals, specialists, they'll understand. But in principle, in the second reading of the committee, the law becomes the property of the committee to the second reading, we can basically fix these things. There, let's say they have pretensions to the notion of "limits," that's it. Well, the author and I are going to consult and we're going to find a very clear legal formulation. As a result, we are asked to vote in favour of this bill. These memorials will be passed on to the Ministry of Culture. There is Mr. Bogicki, Deputy Minister. I think the Ministry will support that, too. Let's vote. He may not be as important a law as he is today on the backdrop of what is happening today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u48	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u49	In the background of what we have today, it's not as important, but the author prepared it, it's all going through the process. Support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, shall we vote? No one's insisting on Kick-Ass? Please, it's Kick-Ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u51	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Parliamentary Group Reforms for the Future, People's Authority. The MPs generally support the idea of a bill for the preservation and protection of civilian vessels and warships, where more than 20 people were killed during World War II as objects of underwater cultural heritage. But we actually have a lot of questions about the fact that these aren't really criteria -- 20, 10, 15, 30 people. It seems to me that all the underwater objects where people died should be under the protection of the State. And that's the principle. And it's not a secret, your esteemed colleagues today in the Black Sea divers and underwater black archaeologists, the value hunters are actually tearing apart these sunken ships and ships. So our MPs are going to vote in favour of these bills, calling for a hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, please don't raise and excuse me. I asked if I could speak. Only one came forward. I'm sorry. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage. [[concerning the granting of marine monumental status to underwater objects]] Registration number 8659. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:05:50]] For-119 The offer is not supported. There's an offer for back-up work. Please vote. [[11:06:16]] For 303 The bill is aimed at further development. There is a bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on Preschool Education. [[on the empowerment of preschool subjects]] Registration number 7193. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please identify yourself. [[11:06:49]] For 196 Offer supported. Reported by the National MP, Robber Lesius Yuriovna, of the Committee. A self-preparation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u53	Good health, fellow believers! I have the honour to report to you on Bill 7193: Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Preschool Education. This bill is a powerful testimony that parliamentary procedures have been invented for nothing. And more than a year ago, when a 12-year-old bill was put in motion, and it was not even able to get a full look at the committee, they made a crazy mistake, namely: they committed compulsory instruction in the text in a kindergarten of five-year-olds. If the committee had considered the bill, it would not have been a mistake, we would have read it and removed it. But now my opponents have nothing but to make a good mine at a bad game, to make it look like that's not true. Why in a country where two children belong in one place in a kindergarten, compulsory five - year - old education cannot be introduced, I should not explain. In addition, the Constitution provides only compulsory schooling, not to mention a word about kindergarten. So my job is to at least correct this mistake that my colleagues made in the previous bill. But that's not all my bill is about. I want to predict that there is a mandatory position of nurse in kindergartens independent of their size. The other one. The possibility of using empty - school facilities for gardeners to give local authorities the right to do so. And third, and most importantly, to prevent the further dispossessing of the land of kindergartens by forbidding it. My opponents have two critical points to this bill. Note number one: no funds. That is, we were obliged to lead our children into kindergartens, and no funds were found to create adequate conditions. And the second critical observation of my opponents is the author's last name. There is no sin of celibacy, unfortunately, but political relevance is more important to my opponents than common sense. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support an appropriate bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u54	The secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, Catherine Samuel, will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u55	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to refer the draft to the drafter. As we considered the bill at the committee's meeting, we said: since the bill does not conform to the relevant provisions and standards of valid education laws, the bill itself has a number of contradictions. For example, the bill proposes to supplement part four of article 9 with the following content: that the State provides preschool education for children of older school age, 5-6 years of age, preschool institutions. This supplement is formulated in such a way that preschool education is compulsory for children of the age indicated. And part five of the same article suggests that the requirement of preschool education and the upbringing of five - year - olds be abolished. That's what the committee was coming out of. I remind you that more than a year has passed since the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Legislative Acts. And since this period, although it has been a little over a year, but 420 preschool facilities have been returned to Ukraine in a year, some 4,000 groups have been added, 44,000 additional children being raised in kindergartens. Thus, as of today, 98 percent of children have been enrolled, five - year - olds, in preschool. And in Kiev, Donetsk, Zitomirski, Mikolayivski, Poltavski, Sumski, Ternopilski, Hmelnicki, Chernigovsky, and Chernigian regions, this percentage is 100 percent. We were approached by the All-Ukrainian Public Association of Preschool Workers and asked us not to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u56	Thank you. Are there speakers? Sign up. Please, Yuri Karmazin, get ready for Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I am deeply surprised by the position of the committee. I would like all the national MPs to understand now that the adoption of this law was not necessary today -- it was necessary until yesterday. And I sincerely thank Lesi Orobec for having foreseen such mandatory things in this bill, for example, in part two of article 34, it is added that in preschool schools, regardless of the number of children and groups, the position of a nurse is necessarily foreseen. What has happened is that in schools where there are thousands of children, there is no health worker. Recently, I have considered a number of such cases. This must be done, and it must be written down. Obviously, the part of the first article of article 38, which is supplemented by the second paragraph, is: "the land of a preschool institution cannot be removed, sold, privatized, transferred, established. The preschool facility may be transferred to the permanent use of the treaty." Now the so-called authority that does: Optimizes, think about the word, without understanding, without looking at the dictionary, what "optimisation" is, optimizes schools -- destroys them. It is proposed in this bill that preschool institutions in villages or villages that do not have separate facilities can function in public educational institutions for free use of their premises and equipment. What's wrong? What is the fullness of groups in preschool and preschool facilities, which are now scheduled to be made up to 10 by 1 year old, up to 3 years old, up to 15 people? I think this bill is extremely needed, and society needs it. Perhaps more is needed than all that is planned for this day. Thank you for your attention, please accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u58	Paul Sulkowski. Prepare Vladimir Bonadrenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u59	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would like very much to thank Mrs. Catherine Samuelk, who made a very clear statement and analysis of the state of affairs regarding this problem. There's a problem. We all know it. But it should also be borne in mind that when President Viktor Janukovic became president, he gave local authorities, executives and governments the second day to order in this area. Because, in fact, they've embalmed, embalmed kindergartens, into business, and it's not only been observed by the orange team of the previous five years, and it's all led to such a difficult situation. And today they want to offer something -- and they don't know what. But we know you've been offering for five years. First. Secondly, the executive authorities did the best they could, you heard Catherine Samuel's analysis. How many kindergartens have been returned, how many children have actually gone to be brought up, or there has been no place for parents and so on. Therefore, we are convinced that a faithful decision has been made by a committee, a faithful decision: it must be rejected. And help the government and local authorities to bring order as quickly as possible. And I am convinced that during 2012, this issue will be removed from the agenda. Because to this day the government is doing everything in order to actually correct the situation. And I'm sure it will. So the project has to be rejected and the government and committee, which is really smart, has made a balanced decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u60	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u61	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. I am impressed by some of the arguments cited by the committee, especially the fact that today's existing laws do not conform to the text of this bill. What, though, do we have laws that are right or that cannot be changed? For example, in these laws, not in the orange state, but in Kuchma, in Kiev, hundreds of kindergartens were redesigned. I know this area where there's a neighborhood in a kindergarten, and there's a kindergarten, a day-care center, a day-care center, a tax inspection, whether it's called another day, but they're all sitting in kindergartens. Many so - called other structures have taken over kindergartens, and it is no longer possible to return them today. The demographic situation at the time was that the population had decreased, and perhaps their need was not as relevant today, but today President Janukovic said that within a few years the population of Ukraine would be 50 million. Obviously, they're going to take the Chinese because we don't have another opportunity to make 50 million. There is no such peak of birth. So the Chinese don't need a kindergarten, they're going to come, they're going to work in the fields instead of Ukrainian peasants that are being destroyed today at a great rate. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that the bill that's being submitted is relevant. And you don't have to dismiss it thoughtlessly, referring to what the committee decided. The political struggle on the committee should not be passed on to citizens. Today, when I'm dragging one of my grandkids, if you'll excuse me for half the city to take them to kindergarten, that's the main feature of the activity of today's power. Keep going. Recently, the Kiev City Council, under the pressure of the Kiev City Administration, adopted a unique decision, raising the rent for educational institutions in Kiev, the private is meant to be, kindergartens, institutions, there, private schools, raising from zero – the rate was zero to five, and sometimes 10 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u62	The discussion is over. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption on the basis of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Preschool Education. [[on the empowerment of preschool subjects]] [[Registration number 7193]] You heard the committee's conclusion. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is that it is appropriate to send for pre-processing. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:18:57]] For-88 The offer is not supported. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts regulating the provision of separate administrative services is under consideration. [[in the field of electricity and heat]] [[Registration number 8729]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:19:34]] For 202 Offer supported. Igor Mikolajovich will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, you are invited to consider a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts governing the provision of separate administrative services, which I have put into the order of legislative initiative. [[Registration number 8729]] The bill establishes the principles of payment for the provision by the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine of services for the issuance of licences in electricity and certain activities in the field of heat supply, as well as in the natural gas market. The mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to set the size and order of payments for the issue of NCRE licences is strengthened. The bill also harmonizes with the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activities under the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market. At the moment, the exchange and order of payment for licences issued by NCRE, as indicated in the "Explanatory Note" to the project, and the changes and additions to the pay and issuance edition, and the transformation of licences by the National Commission for the regulation of electricity to certain types of entrepreneurial activity. In line with the proposed changes to the Ukrainian Electricity Act on combined heat and electricity production. The generation, use and use of energy savings, and heat supply, are of a precise nature, without altering the current order of payment for the licenses issued by the NCRE. The adoption of the proposed bill will ensure the legislative alignment of one source of income for the State budget of Ukraine from the provision of paid administrative services in the field of electricity and heating, as well as in the natural gas market. According to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u64	Complete the committee’s opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u65	According to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of 05/07/11, the results of the first reading may be accepted as a basis. The Budget Committee at its meeting on 7 September decided that the draft amending some Ukrainian legislation could lead to an increase in licence payments. The Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, in its expert opinion, supports and notes that the introduction of the bill does not require additional costs. By letter, the Cabinet of Ministers supported the bill. The PEC committee, following a discussion of the bill at its meeting, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in the first reading on the basis and as a whole. And he's asking for his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u66	Thank you. Igor Mikolaiovich reported both to the author and to the committee of profile. Is there a need to discuss? Okay, yeah? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts regulating the provision of separate administrative services in the field of electricity and heat. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Take down the vote. Dear colleagues, please listen to the presiding officer. I asked if anyone wanted to discuss it was not. Yes, Bondarenko. Who else? () [[B in m in s a l in]] Sign up! Please, Stoyan. After him, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u67	Please pass the word to the energy specialist Sukhmu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u68	Gas was discovered in Ternopolis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! I am addressing the Ukrainian national deputies, who have been elected majors, who so far have not lost contact with the district, who receive constant letters of complaint that the so - called power outage of power has begun again in Ukraine. I only received a letter today, an answer, a letter of complaint from the people of the Borispil district of NCRE. What Is the Answer? And the answer is, in front of a monopoly, a simple person, a consumer of electricity, is powerless, there's nothing you can do. As in the case of the adoption of this bill, we would have had the opportunity in Kyivoblanergo, who is unknown to whom, to withdraw the license to supply electricity, perhaps we would have listened to people's complaints. Well, think about it in the summer, in the south, in the day, in the day, in the day, in two. People with terror in the Borispil district are waiting for winter! What will be the winter? Why this disconnection continues, there is no answer. The supply of electricity, the system itself, is opaque, thoughtless, powerless, and until we can clearly explain to people what human rights are as consumers of electricity. Because the price of electricity is constantly rising, and it's going to be growing, and we have to explain to people what this service is for, and why this happiness has fallen on our heads when we don't have the ability to appeal to someone that we don't understand. This, by the way, refers to the bill introduced by Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko. We need to explain clearly to people what they are entitled to, to whom they should appeal, and to what responsibility the monopoly will bear in the event that they continue to abuse people. I propose that this bill be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u70	Pavlovsky. Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u71	Andrew Pavlovsky is Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u72	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. I'd like to point out, dear friends, that this bill expands the possibilities of the NCRE, not the citizens. It gives NCRE the right to issue licenses, that is, to smother the remaining business with a variety of licenses. You read yesterday's website of President Yanukovic of Ukraine, where he directly says that today's government authorities have so expanded their active activities to rob the population and business with various licenses, permits. And generally, it's not government structures that run this activity, but it's the parasites that sit next to these structures that are just being used, but the government officials who run the structures where they're going. Why? Because the obvious flow of funds goes into the clerk's own pocket. Look at what modern - day representatives of a variety of such structures are doing. So, Mr. Jaroslav gave an example that was turned off in the south, day by day. I'll give you an example of 28 shut-offs in the February months in the village of Buzov and Gurovščina, 18 in March months and so on. There's no way to look where I'm going, the commission's coming, it's saying, "The branch has fallen." And half the area is off, the branch is down, so clean up that branch. You're responsible for me coming and turning the power on -- and I had it, and where the branch fell, that's your problem, and you're charging it with that pocket! So this law is harmful, it's, this law, it doesn't have to be adopted, in any case, if we're even thinking a little bit about Ukrainian citizens, not really about those officials who are parasitic today in government structures. So once again, I emphasize that in no way can this be done. Today, there are no symmetrical, equal conditions between citizens and the state. Citizens are depressed, and they are advised to go to court. To what court? Like the Cave Court? Well, look, does anyone in the world judge him as a court of law?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u73	Please, Cibenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u74	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Company of Ukraine has considered this bill very carefully. And what's more, we discussed it separately, we stopped at this bill, and we stopped at factions. The first approach was not to support this bill, but because there is a problem, and we understand that this problem needs to be regulated by legislation, because, given this problem, the faction of the Ukrainian Company has decided to support this bill. But I would like to draw the committee's attention to the fact that we will only vote in the first reading and only if the tariffs are not raised for the services indicated. In that case, we think we're going to take a step forward in the direction of solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u75	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts regulating the provision of separate administrative services in the field of electricity and heat supply, registration number 8729. Please vote. [[11:29:55]] For 240 Decision taken. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislations of Ukraine on Payments for Networking of Natural Monopolies, Registration No. 9011. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:30:31]] For 201 Supported. The reporter and author and head of the Committee is Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please, in three minutes, if you'll bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u76	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a bill for your consideration, which already has a prehistory. In the previous session, you and I decided to withdraw the bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the order of payment of services provided to natural monopolies. [[Registration number 7420]] With this bill, Kabmin tried to settle the issue of salaries for joining engineering networks. The bill was collegiate with the Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities and could not be adopted without violating the Rules. When deciding to withdraw Bill 7420, the Committee on Fuel and Energy made a commitment to draft a new bill on this issue. Because the issue is urgent and painful for both the population and other energy and natural gas consumers, including large residential builders. The bill, which I report on, is the result of the committee's work, and it's worked out by committee hearings on this issue with the participation of a wide range of stakeholders. The bill mainly contains proposals to amend Ukraine's laws on electricity and on the principles of the functioning of the natural gas market. This bill will allow for the creation of a legislative basis for transparent definition of wages for connecting to electricity networks and gas networks. The main ideas of the bill are the following. In particular, first, define the concept of standard connection. For the population, it's up to 15 kilowatts, the rest of it up to 100 kilowatts. In both cases, the distance is up to 500 meters straight from the consumer to the power supply point. The payment for such integration and the methodology of its determination is proposed to be entrusted with the development of the NCRE. At the same time, given the social coloration of such wages for the population, it might be appropriate to make this size fixed. This can be done in a second reading. If the fees set do not cover the necessary costs for joining the bill, the source of additional funding for these works shall be determined. Other cases of association are proposed to be considered as nonstandard and to be counted in a different order as foreseen in the bill. The other one. Individually, it is suggested that we determine the order in which to calculate the payments for the connection of apartment buildings. Apartments, i.e. the population, are calculated separately and on a general basis as for the population, not housing, offices, etc., by other rules, which may allow the builders to lower the cost of apartments. The so-called green energy integration procedure has also been prescribed, and the bill also sets out criteria for the availability or lack of technical capability for the connection of customers' electrical installations, but the expert conclusion is given to the relevant authorities of state electricity regulation. The committee's decision on this issue is to adopt Bill 9011 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u77	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Shall we discuss it? Who insists? Sign up. Please, Oleg Zarubinski. Get ready for Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u78	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Our faction will vote in favour of this bill, not just because it has to increase the reliability and quality of energy supply, as stated by the subject of the legislative initiative, and there is no reason not to believe it. But first of all, two positions. I think they're very important to people who are already connected to electricity. Now there are a lot of people who are building, trying to join the electricity, but it's done by those people who are already connected there, so they include their big houses, 40, 50 kilowatts and so on, and in the system that already exists, and as a result, the electricity supply for ordinary people is getting worse. And it says here, article 18.1 on electricity, provides that the criteria for the availability of technical connectivity are. i.e. without these criteria, it is obvious that a new electricity consumer cannot be connected, read: "to save the conditions of electricity supply set by the category of reliability of electricity supply and to preserve the quality of electricity for other electricity consumers, which at the time of the application are already connected to the electrical transmission networks." It's absolutely the right thing to do. And the second. There are no limits to the declared capacity, taking into account the capacity reserve, in accordance with previously concluded contracts for connection in electrical transmission networks to which the connection should be made. I think these two positions are extremely important for those people who today are suffering from new builders who require dozens and dozens of kilowatts on the basis of existing networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u79	Please, Valery Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I believe this is a really important question because it meets the conditions for energy security and energy efficiency improvement. We understand that full development is possible when infrastructure is effectively formed, when we create conditions that will allow us to protect consumers, get a sufficiently efficient system, an emergency dangerous system that will affect not only energy supply, gas supply, but other directions. So I propose to support this bill and to ensure, after approval of this bill, that if it is approved in the first reading, we work out, so that we can actually create an effective system to ensure those natural monopolies that are unfortunately not being used to the full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u81	Thank you. Valerius Bevz, Communist faction, Bondarenko is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u82	I'd like to give the floor to the people's MP Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u83	Marmazov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u84	Thank you. Respectable colleagues are certainly in need of such legislation, but there are many contentious points in the proposed draft law, and in principle our faction will not support this law. First of all, what comments. Here is a fundamental question: the definition of “standard accessions”. The draft law proposes standard and 15 kW, under certain requirements, and 100 kW. So 15 kW is understandable, we can explain. Third category 15 kW. It's definitely a cottage somewhere in the village, in a village. This is certainly the protection of socially disadvantaged consumers. At the same time, we should not allow other customers to use this concessional price, that is 100 kW is in principle the owners of cafes, restaurants, megamarkets, gas stations and so on and so on. They are owners who are able to pay at a real price, and they cannot be translated into Oblenergo. The skynergo needs to solve the problem of electricity recovery, equipment that will enable it to do so. Second point: the question of ownership. Article 18 does not provide for which property it will be, who will repair the nets, who will install the new equipment, but must be reflected in the law. And one last moment. There is no need to introduce the concept of “technical possible accessions”, but there is always a technical possibility of accession, even on the Moon you can raise electricity: pay only money. So in article 18, it's a technical one, it's just a bureaucratic clue that needs to be deleted. We believe that this project needs to be finalized and carried out. Indeed, it has a background, but it needs to be refined, not raw.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u85	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u86	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. In my own time, I had a very long discussion with former Energy Minister Mr. Sold, and in these discussions, my colleague Ostap Semerak, Oleg Malich, and several other deputies. We then turned to the then minister and showed him the gruesome facts of the activity of the energy monopoly, and the monopoly demanded that citizens and legal persons build networks at their own expense, buy a transformer at their own expense, and pass it all on to the balance sheet of Obelenergo, from a good point of view, and then they'll hook you up with some crazy money. "Oblenergo's Carpage," or "KievOblenergo" took an unusually large amount of money, tens of thousands of ordinary citizens who built a house there, whether large or small. So what I'm saying is that there's a rule around the world that you're using electricity -- there's already money in the price of electricity to maintain the network, there's capital repairs for its development. And then the more people eat, the more they pay for it. We're the apriors, not knowing how much a person's going to eat, we're going to rob it. So we have absolutely inappropriate principles of monopolistic relations with citizens. If a person consumes little, he pays little, and someone eats more, he'll pay more. So you can't build a relationship on these principles because it's a monopolistic structure, and it's what it's called, which is what it has to pay for. How about people where to get to. Well, you won't get involved unless you give them your own property bought for your money. So until these problems are removed, I'm not going to vote in favour of this law, but I'm going to fight the monopoly, and I'm going to look for allies so that we can have normal human relations, legal, legal, where I can protect myself, and any citizen can protect himself in this relationship with a monopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u87	Thank you, the discussion is over. All the speakers stressed, and I also confirm, because at multiple meetings, there's actually talk about how it costs almost as much to connect to electricity as to build a house. There's some sort of order here. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the wages of joining the networks of natural monopolies. Registration number 9011. [[11:42:51]] For 212 Not supported. There's a proposal for a recast, please vote. [[11:43:12]] For 258. The bill is being sent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u88	Let's go back to the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u89	No, we're not coming back, we've already made our decision. For processing. I think that the author, having heard what we've been saying, might be able to resubmit this bill soon after the revision and we'll be back to its consideration. Dear colleagues, we're in Ukraine right now, I've met her, Head of the National Austrian Council of Barbara Prammer. My colleague Yatsenuk is supposed to be involved in a meeting with a colleague right now, so he's asking us to look at his bill now, which is a little bit later, but he's not going to be in a meeting. Therefore, if you do not mind, the draft Act amending the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine is being considered. [[on certain matters of recognition and appeal to a foreign court for enforcement]] [[Registration number 6544]] There's an offer to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:44:32]] For 213 Offer supported. Reported by national deputy Yacenouk Arsenij Petrovich. The committee is Valery Vasilovich Kelestin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, before reporting on the law, I would like to formally appeal to the authorities, to Parliament's leadership and to the leadership of the city's State Administration: why does the current Supreme Council of Ukraine derail itself from the people of Ukraine and build another fence?Oh, my God! Don't be afraid of the people, don't be afraid of the Afghans, don't be afraid of the Chernobyls, and don't be afraid of the people you have to work for, they won't be working for you! It's about the bill. This bill deals with the sad natural gas in Ukraine. It provides for changes to civil and procedural legislation. I want to remind everyone that RosUkreenergo was given a court decision in Stockholm, where NAC Naftogaz Ukraine was supposed to give 12 and a half billion cubic metres of gas and another $200 million. Such a decision is subject to unconditional enforcement in Ukraine in view of the fact that a valid civil process law does not provide for reasons why such a decision can be stopped if it threatens Ukraine's energy security. That is why the law proposes to enable the Ukrainian State to protect its interests, including its energy interests. And before carrying out any court decision to verify whether this decision affects the energy balance of the state and the national security of the country as a whole. This bill also foresees the need for a mandatory decision by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine when signing any peace agreements with companies with more than 25 percent of state ownership. I underline, the collegiate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers in the form of a decree that no state-owned company should own state property, which is actually property of the people of Ukraine. So please support the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u91	Please, from Kelestin Valeriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u92	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Honorary Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice, discussed at its meeting on 22 December 2010, Protocol No.72, the draft Act amending the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yatsenuk Arsenij Petrovich, [[on certain matters of recognition and appeal to the enforcement of decisions of a foreign court subject to enforcement]] [[Registration number 6544]] [[of 17.06.2010]] The bill is designed to settle certain matters of recognition and appeal to the execution of decisions by a foreign court subject to enforcement. To achieve this, the draft law proposes to amend articles 175, 395, 396 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. It should be noted that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support these changes for many reasons. For example, the Code regulates the procedure for dealing with civil matters in Ukraine rather than in foreign courts. The amendments provided for in the bill are also appropriate to make other legislative acts, not to the Ukrainian CCP. Having considered the bill and the expert conclusions submitted, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Yatsenuk, 18.06. [[on certain matters of recognition and appeal to the enforcement of decisions of a foreign court subject to enforcement]] [[Registration number 6544]] 2010
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u93	Yes, there are respected colleagues who wish to speak? There's no Carmazin? Then Yuri Carmazin's word. Karmazin and Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I would like to thank Arsenia Petrovich Yatsenyuk for paying attention to how to stop virtually state betrayal. State treachery took place. The people have agreed to the conclusion of peace agreements. And it's not just Rossukrenerge. And on the continental shelf, did they not agree? There is also a matter that threatens the interests of Ukraine, the national interests of Ukraine. Because of this, the court’s obligation to complete article 395 with part five, which would oblige the court to stop the proceedings concerning the granting of a compulsory execution of a foreign court’s decision in the event of a violation in Ukraine or a criminal case, or a civil suit in this case, is absolutely appropriate and must be done. In view of the fact that there is more than 25 percent of government property. Although Arseny Petrovich, up to 25 percent of the population needs to be asked if there is a share of the state’s property. Then a separate decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is to be adopted. Otherwise, there will be abuses that have already occurred. And it's just that we can't look at this situation fully in the Rosukreenergo case, I don't think. This is a question, one of the examples of all of the Rosukrenerego, as today is extended including state property by means of so-called commercial agreements and courts. First, the agreement is unfavourable, and then, you see, that's how the issue is resolved. So I ask you to support the adoption of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u95	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u96	Did it seem that we were discussing? The Yatsenuk bill stands in defense of Ukraine’s national interests. It seemed that every national MP elected by the people should vote in favour of the bill. Because it's perfectly clear that it's not only about Rossukrenergo, but it's just a killer example, because it's a colossal sum, and it's just about a gang that our senior officials are behind today. By the way, almost all of them joined the oversight board of one of the universities. Great scholars were also found, but God is with him! Because, of course, my soul hears that they are not voting in favour of this bill, because they have absolutely no interest in these national interests. Because of this, I believe that, and I believe that if there are honest and decent people in our Parliament, vote in favour of this bill, be sure to vote. This is a test bill that protects national interests. I'm sure Yulia Timoshenko will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u97	Question completed. I'm voting on the author's proposal. Because the conclusion of the committee is to reject, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, to return to work. The author proposes the adoption of the Amendment Act to the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6544]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:53:05]] Z-62 Not supported, bill rejected. Dear colleagues, I continue for 15 minutes. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". [[on the recalculation of pensions for working retirees]] Registration number 4217. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u98	Yes, there is, there is. [[11:53:41]] For 180. Offer supported. And the report from the committee is Valeriy Suškević. Please, four minutes. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u99	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Suškević, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that since October 1st the Pension Reform Act came into force, a sad one, with which I, as chairman of the committee and our committee, did not agree essentially. And I think it is necessary to urge all of you to continue working on pension reform. In this context, my colleague Kulczynski and I are proposing a bill that defines two factors that relate to the provision of our pensioners. The first is to make changes to article 24 of the Law on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance, assuming that during the period of participation in the solidarity system alone, the value of the estimate of one insurance service will be 1.35 percent. So what I'm suggesting is that it's the law that determines the cost of an insurance internship of 1.35 percent. I'm noting that the very law on compulsory government pension insurance states that the order of determination of pension benefits is determined only by the law, and that's what affects both prices and the cost of insurance. So this law is a legislative norm, it needs to be settled. Unfortunately, so far it is only determined by the government's decision -- it's regulation number 530 from 2008, and it's determined then by the government of Timoshenko, and so far it's not defined in the law. That's why I think it's necessary. And the second question that concerns the substance of my bill is that it touches working pensioners. Dear colleagues, let's think about working pensioners, because an active pension reform doesn't, unfortunately, ensure that all that affects those people who are forced to work because their pension is relatively small. That's why I'm proposing that those pensioners who worked after their retirement be given the opportunity to recalculate the pension, taking into account the average wage rate that is counted for the retirement in the year in which the pension is recalculated. And so pensioners can count on. After working at retirement, you can count on the pension, where the salary will be counted. I would like to remind you, fellow citizens, and the pension reform that has been adopted in this room provides that when the pension is recalculated, the final pension will not depend on the size of the salary, but on the length of the pension. This says that today we, in fact, people who pay insurance contributions to the Pension Fund, working pensioners, we don't take their salary into account. I mean, in fact, we don't update pensions for working pensioners. This is certainly not the right thing to do, and I propose that this legislative norm be corrected and supported by working pensioners. By the way, this is according to the general concept of pension insurance. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to support the bill on the basis. Our committee, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, also supported this bill. Please support a bill that works for the people and supports in general all that affects the reform of the pension system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u100	Are there speakers? Please sign up. Please, Peter Cibenko, the Communist faction. Prepare Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u101	Thank you. Communist faction Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! There's a lot of bottlenecks in our pension system. But this problem, which is now the subject of this bill, is probably one of the most violent. The point is that this bill is trying to bring back the subject of regulation, namely the recalculation of pensions for working pensioners in the law. Because of the fact that this situation was not clearly regulated by the basic law, someone succeeded that it was not settled, and so they began to regulate the law in this way: first by explaining the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Pension Fund, they sent instructions to the places, then by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. And in the first case, it's wrong, and the second, it's wrong. So we have to get this problem back to the law. Because those citizens who, for objective reasons, are, let's say, directly, because of the extremely low level of pension insurance they are forced to work today, when they're retired, they are still entitled to a recalculation of the pension provided for by law, and this has to be regulated by law. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill, will support it in the first reading. And we think this rule needs to be regulated. And the people who work, the pensioners who work, could be sufficiently socially protected, including in this respect. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will vote in favour of this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u102	Mikola Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u103	Mikola Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine" party. You see, honourable listeners and distinguished national MPs, members of the committee are unanimous in the assessment of the bill. This shows that it is relevant, and it is very relevant, since it is an article five. I just want to emphasize once again the halls that this bill needs to be voted on, at least on a basis, although I would like it to be voted on and in general, despite some of the comments of the analytical administration, they can be counted. The point is that article 5 of the Law on State Pension Insurance, states that the amount of pension benefits is determined solely by this law. So far, the estimate of one year's insurance service was determined by the law on the budget or decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, and that's not correct, the bill corrects it. And the more pressing problem is the one Peter Stepanovich Cibenko said. So if any of the deputies were to speak, let's say that meeting with people had claimed that he was a member of the pension committee, believe me, 99.9 percent of the questions would be about pensions alone. Because as members of the committee, there are a lot of letters coming to us about these two problems. And I ask the hall to take it seriously, no matter what -- the opposition, most of it -- to support it without looking back. This bill, despite the adoption of the Pension Reform Act. These two moments, which are echoed by the committee members of the people, are very relevant to all pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u104	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, why did I go to the rostrum? Because I'm going to vote for this bill, I'm going to try to convince those people, those Ukrainian national MPs who may not have fully figured out the problem. The Ukrainian pension system, based on insurance and solidarity, is for people. causes many complaints, for it is misunderstood, confused, opaque, especially unjust. What would be the ideal? It's not even about the size of pension payments. Ideally, an internship and a salary. Then you get a little bit of a clear social orientation: fighting for jobs, getting better at work, and fighting for high wages. What is our society fighting for today? For the benefits, for the taxes from the state. It's not normal, it's a road to deadlock, it's not a way to build a civil society. Ratio 1.35. What seems to be the problem: Today, by the Cabinet of Ministers, this ratio of 2005 is returned, 1.35, but by a decree, not by the law of Ukraine. One more. Please think about it: we will continue our retirement. For 2 years, he did a recalculation, 2 years he did a recalculation. It would seem that the more the trainee, the more the pension has to be raised. A colleague of mine gave me a letter of complaint from our management driver. He's almost 50 years old, and he's asking why it doesn't change, why it's such a low pension. Well, how do you explain to a person when he, working for two years, counted into the Pension Fund and the solidarity system, worked for two more years -- he's still counting. He makes the pension fund's insurance contribution. Dear colleagues, this bill just needs to be supported. We're destined to vote for him, otherwise the logic of why not, for example, I don't find. If this were an overload of the state budget, then it would be understandable.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u106	Question completed. The essence of the bill is to restore the fact that in 2009 the Cabinet of Ministers made life easier, and by 2009, the Cabinet of Ministers, whose prime minister knew who was, had a different ratio of pensions. I'm voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance". [[on the recalculation of pensions for working retirees]] [[Registration number 4217]] Please vote. [[12:05:38]] For 169 Not supported. The factions, please. The region's 16-party, "BUT"-62, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense"-29, communists-25, "Reforms for the Future"-20, People's Party-15, non-fractional-two. There's a proposal to send a bill for further work, please vote. Processing. [[12:06:17]] For 311 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Two factions -- "BUT" -- "Fatherland" and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" -- asked for a break, but they're willing to make a statement. Dear colleagues! We agreed that they wouldn't take a break because they gave it up in advance, so they were entitled to 30 minutes. But in order not to waste time, please for one and a half minutes, I ask the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! The opposition factions "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" are decisively opposed to the efforts of the authorities to change the electoral law first. Today, the authorities have completely failed their electric rating. But he's trying to save the majority in the new Parliament by adopting the Supreme Council Election Act in his own writing. The bill proposed by the President, which is soon to be tabled in Parliament, paves the way for the distortion of the popular will and is already underway in the 2010 local elections. In fact, it's the only way for the power not to end up in a minority in the new Supreme Council, because by returning the mixed system, the government expects most of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majorists simply to be driven into the majority using the method of "bathage and spice". The government is demonstratively ignoring the opinion of Europe, which criticises the attempt to rewrite the rules of the elections under itself, as expressed, inter alia, by the Secretary of the authoritative Venice Commission, Mr. Martins, who was recently in Kiev. And so today we have to wait for the final conclusions of the bill to change the electoral system, which will clearly be absolutely critical of it. The opinion of the Ukrainian opposition is also completely ignored, and only in the European capitals do the authorities speak about the dialogue with it. And in fact, over the past two and a half years, the majority of parliaments have made a filigree about selling the laws they need. First, alternative drafts of opposition fail one by one, and then, according to the team of the "director" of the Party of Regions, the "Obriams" begins by voting on its decisions. Yes, of course, they are going to do so with the Electoral Law. The opposition factions therefore strongly demand that today, rather than the Supreme Council's consideration of electoral bills, we await the final conclusions of the Venice Commission, which must be fully taken into account in their content. It is only after that that all the bills should not be cut short, but should be considered in Parliament in full. We believe that a valid proportional electoral system needs to be improved and improved rather than canceled. Because it was the first time in the history of elections in Ukraine that the Ukrainians had elected twice before the current Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, in the daytime election laws will be voted on. We're against such an approach to "upto", quickly "move and clear" the way for "one and unmistakable." Our arguments are as follows, before what was said to my colleague Knazevitch. First. For the first time, the Elections Act was written outside Parliament. Colleagues, this is nonsense! The Council's role will be reduced to simple voting, essentially statistical. We, paradoxically, don't mind who's going to be introducing this bill from abroad, but we remind ourselves that the President has clearly established in the electoral programme a proportional system with open lists, and in the last letter he also confirmed it. Our position is that the law that has now been in operation and which has been held in previous elections allows for maximum representation of the will of the people, minimizes corruption. Those elections and the very law that they were under have been given a positive assessment of all international foundations as democratic, open, transparent. We understand that we need to get as close to the electorate as possible to the territories as possible to the people. We realize that this law, which has been favored by which positive conclusions have been drawn, needs to be improved. The most relevant are a number of opposition bills to be considered, and in particular 4357 is the bill of our colleague Sergey Petrovich Podgorny. We would support the position that has already been expressed -- not to rush, not to rush, we have no conclusions from the Venice Commission. Hence, respectable fellow workers are said to be in a hurry. And let's do this one time today for the consideration of drafts, there's a serious rational grain, let's support them. And let's not get into another scandal, triggering corruption in elections, bribery, administrative pressure, and everything else we've talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the session room, we'll continue our sessions. The question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. [[on free display of art and documentary films about the war on Victory Day]] [[Registration number 8292]] The author of the legislative initiative, MP Danilenko, suggests that we consider a simplified procedure. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:41:06]] For-164 Offer supported. Please, Vladimir Andriyovich. Get Zybenko ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u112	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Victory Day is one of the most important holidays for Ukraine and for each of us. It symbolizes the triumph of good over evil, the future over the past, life over death. This day unites people against aggression and war, symbolizes the pursuit of peace and prosperity. It is on that day that a conscious part of society pays tribute to the veterans of the Great Homeland War. In 2000, in order to preserve the memory of the defenders of the country, the Ukrainian Act on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great Homeland War 19941-1945 was adopted. The article of the second law stipulates the form of the perpetuation of victory and the feat of the victorious people. Of course, the veneration of the veterans of the Great Homeland War cannot be limited to the forms of veneration mentioned in this article, since no action taken by the State in respect of veterans can be compared to the price paid by our people for their victory in this terrible war. Because if we don't remember the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945, passing on memories of the great people who put on the altar of Victory millions of lives, it will make this victory eternal. The law that I have initiated proposes to supplement article 2 of the Ukrainian law on the perpetuation of victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945 with a new form of perpetuation of victory and the feat of the victorious people as a free display of art and documentary films about the Great Homeland War in cinemas, houses of culture and clubs on May 9. The task of the project is to raise young people and children by example of the feat and commitment of the victorious people as an example of patriotism and respect for the state. The adoption of this bill will have a positive effect on the memory of the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. New forms of memory entrenching in the form of
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u113	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u114	The free display of art films will have a positive effect on the proper patriotic upbringing of young Ukraine. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u115	Thank you. First Deputy Head of the Committee for Veterans, Pensioners and Disabled Persons, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Last Saturday, on October 1, the entire world community celebrated the day of the elderly, which was established 21 years ago by the United Nations. And in Ukraine the day was parallel to the day of the veteran. And I would very much like today to have the words of respect, the words of respect that were heard on the eve of this event, this signistic event in our lives, for them to be strengthened by the useful things that would be done here in the Hall of Meetings of the Supreme Council. On behalf of the committee, I would like to thank the author of the bill, Danilenko Volodymyr Andryovich, for his initiative to preserve the memory of victory in the Great War of 1941-1945. And fully, the committee fully supports the idea of the 8292 Bill on the organization of free display of art and documentary films about the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945 in cinemas, cultural houses and club institutions as one of the forms of perpetuation of victory and the feat of the winning people. At its meeting on May 11, this year, the committee reviewed the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. That's what the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority thinks. My position is that it would be good if we accepted this document immediately and in general, but unfortunately, this document needs to be clarified in some ways. In particular, it should be further developed in a part of the specification of the time during which a free display of appropriate artistic and documentary films should be organized. Because the contents of the bill do not match his exact name, since it refers to an organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u117	Finish!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u118	Since it is a free display of appropriate art and documentary films only on Victory Day, the bill itself does not define such a day. However, an appropriate observation could be taken into account during the process. So the committee supports the idea of the bill and proposes to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u119	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Get ready for the One.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u120	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! By what and by what methods does the growing generation now grow up? Expansion from abroad, through movies, money, killings, violence, pornography, etc.; and reality in practice: destroyed factories, destroyed animal farms and tractor states, weeded fields, unemployment, lawlessness, injustice. But there was also the experience of the great State, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, where children were raised from the smallest age: the Octobers, the pioneers, the Komsomol, the school, the pioneer camps, the great constructions of the socialist state and the victory in the Great War of the country. So, of course, I call upon all the national MPs to support this bill, so that they can at least show free art and documentary films about the war on Victory Day, so that even then our young people can see what was positive then, and our veterans can remember their military youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u121	Thank you. One, please, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u122	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, it is clear that today we have an archival task to formulate or model the national memory of victory in the Great War of 1941-1945. In my opinion, the changes proposed in the bill are just one of the ingredients of the multifaceted work of the patriotic upbringing of our young people. The bill has a great idea, but it should be noted that the changes proposed in it do not indicate a period of viewing free display of art and documentary films about the Great Homeland War in cinemas. This situation will need to be clarified in a second reading. But I am convinced that honoring the heroic pages of the history of Ukraine and the memory of those who protected their homeland by approaching victory is a noble duty of the living and a tribute to the memory of the dead. Thus, the changes proposed in the bill really improve the understanding of the social responsibility of our generation. So I would like to support the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u123	Thank you. Sergei Pavlovenko. Don't insist. Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u124	Please pass the word to Valery Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u125	Stone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u126	Kamchat Valerius, MP of Reforms for the Future, Harkushkin. Of course, all legislative initiatives aimed at supporting veterans, participants, and children of war, as well as preserving our historical memory, must be supported in this room. Without this, we will never be able to establish ourselves as a nation worthy of self - respect and respect by other nations. That's why we approve of the idea of free display of art and documentary films about the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945 in cinemas, cultural houses and club facilities. Surely, this form of perpetuating the feat of our people in this war will preserve the memory of this war and the veneration of its heroes. But why we pressed the "against" button in the speech, that's what the honourable committee has already pointed out today, that the bill has some flaws, it has to be refined, and in particular in the search for financial sources to fund this work. So today we are grateful to my colleague Danilenko for such an initiative, this is the right initiative, and we will certainly support it when we work on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u127	One minute, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear people's deputies, of course, this is our share of the little thing that we can do right now, is to adopt this law. And I'm going to vote yes. But we have a good understanding with you that just by deciding on the issue of watching and giving a veteran the right to watch a free movie once on Victory Day, obviously it is not the duty of the State to provide and survive, and the proper standard of living for veterans, children of war, providing them with medicines, providing medicines today for all the hospitals that cover up the funding they cut. For this reason, I believe that this is a reason to think about what is being done today after other requirements of Ukrainian legislation regarding veterans have been met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u129	Question completed. Dear colleagues, I think everyone understands the idea. Let's support it. The cinemas, in fact, are almost gone. I'm voting on the adoption in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. [[on free display of art and documentary films about the war on Victory Day]] Registration number 8292. Please vote. [[12:53:26]] For 284 Adopted in the first reading. We're looking at a draft law amending the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act and a draft regulation on a special review committee on citizens' issues. Registration numbers 2494, 2495. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:54:01]] For 206 Supported. Please, Valery Illrich Konovaluk. Get Paulie Edward ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u130	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Respectable citizens! Of course, the issue of the mandate of a special review committee on citizens’ issues is in the vast majority of European parliaments. We understand that the constant changes in electoral legislation, in the electoral system of Ukraine, have in fact led to the abolition of majority districts, to a serious deterioration in the response system, including the national MPs, to the appeal of citizens, which has a negative impact on the protection of the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. There is a systematic formal bureaucratic attitude of officials of local authorities and executive authorities, business leaders, institutions, and organizations to consider the appeals, the gravity and the superficiality they allow to be resolved. You and I can make sure that even national MPs ask their own questions, receive formal answers, or receive nothing at all. Therefore, we need to understand the situation of our citizens today. The introduction of the bill is due to the immediate need to ensure an effective and effective dialogue between the authorities and the people of Ukraine to introduce a system of monitoring commissions to comply with legislation on the recourse of citizens to public authorities and local self-government bodies. The adoption of the bill is crucial to the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, the removal of the destructive effects of the electoral system in force, the strengthening of the control of executive branches of power, the establishment of fruitful contacts between citizens and representatives of power, which will have a positive impact on the overall development of democratic society in Ukraine. There will be no urgent need to build a fence and shut up from those who are forced to come to the walls of the Supreme Council. I understand that this is the issue, the bill was introduced as early as May 2008. It would allow us not only to respond quickly to all the problems, but to each Conciliation Council, to have full information, monitoring, which are the problems that concern society today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u131	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u132	How to deal with it in a systematic way. That's why I'm calling, my dear fellows: we have a monitoring commission on matters of privatization, although great privatization has long since ended. And during the sixth call, not only did we not hear the report of this commission, but there is probably no need for it at all. Although the issue of protecting citizens and turning citizens into citizens is enough. I'd like to give you another answer to that statement that came up until the break that we need to keep the proportional system. No, it's not. The return of major districts is a social requirement, almost a hundred percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u133	Thank you. Edward Pavlenko, from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u134	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Citizens' Appeal Act, Registration No. 2496, dated 16.05.2008, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Konovaluk, who is now being proposed for your consideration. The bill is intended to supplement the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act with a new article, 13-1, according to which the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to create from the national deputies of Ukraine a Special Supervisory Commission on Citizens' Appeal. In addition, the project includes the creation of similar committees in the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and in relevant local councils. In discussing the matter, members of our committee made a number of comments. First of all, it was pointed out that the proposed standards did not fully disclose the competence of the designated commissions and did not determine what kind of control they should exercise. Furthermore, the amendments proposed by the author conflict with the position of part two and article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, with which the possibilities created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the permanent special control commissions, are not foreseen. Articles 26 and 32 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Law of Ukraine "On Local Self-Government in Ukraine" do not correspond to the proposed novices, according to which the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the local self-government bodies are the permanent and temporary commissions. The conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of 18 June 2008 states that the first reading of the bill should be rejected. The adoption of the bill and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self - Government are not supported. The committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Citizens’ Appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u135	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u136	See the article “Young People In 2008, submitted by Ukraine’s national deputy, Konovaluk, rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u137	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Sign up. Please, Jaroslav Suhi. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, we have two basic laws: the Citizens' Appeal Act and the People's Deputies of Ukraine Act. Please tell me, don't we know that the sections of complaints and appeals of citizens are in all the executive, judicial and legislative branches of power, do we all have? If we want, we can take a report from any department and any organization and do an analysis, if that's the case. Another, according to the status of the Ukrainian national deputy, is the Ukrainian national deputy obliged to have a district, to be attached to this district, to receive these complaints, to respond to these complaints in the degree provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. So I didn't understand the idea of this bill6 to create a special control commission to control who? - Ukrainian national deputies, how do they deal with complaints, the faction leader, how does he react to such Ukrainian national deputies? And I think this bill is meant to be. We have another organ, I don't call the drafter, maybe he hasn't heard of it, called the National Council of Mediation and Reconciliation. Thus, it is her responsibility to collect, analyze complaints, and take steps to avoid social tension so that the issues that concern our people do not grow. And last but not least, dear colleagues. The only great benefit of this bill is that in the end, we need to review with you our attitude towards citizens' statements and petitions. And especially for the monitoring function to be performed by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. See if many of the bills have been analyzed for their implementation, and how do they work in places? And how many complaints and complaints from places do we have from people that we have not understood the norm of a bill and that we have no idea where to complain or ask for an explanation? I support the opinion of the committee of profile, and this bill is proposed to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'll start with a little example. I'm being called from the Children's House of the Donetsk Region and they say, "A decision has been made in court that our children's house will be closed because the premises we occupy are a historic building, a historic building, and it's one of the oligarchs who like it, and in the form of Euro-2012, they have to use it in a different way." And no one thinks about the orphans that have been there for many years in the city of Artemos. I'm asked, "Please tell me, does the Prime Minister of Ukraine accept people, us, we want to go to him, and does the President of Ukraine accept Viktor Yanukovic? We want to go to him on this." I emphasize, the Artemian Children's House. Maybe there's a representative of the President, and he'll hear how they wanted to get in. I explained to them that I could not help them with their reception, since even the MPs did not receive Mr. Azarov. This is the only Prime Minister in my memory, in 20 years of independence, who does not accept deputies. Well, I think his fate will be determined very quickly -- and he'll go where his property is, to the Russian Federation. However, I am convinced that attention to this subject has been raised correctly. You know, the President created an ombudsman from the rights of the child, we have an ombudsman from human rights, and you decided what to do with the rights of the child. So I'm hinting at the idea, create one of the other of the Ombudsperson's defectors with the rights of claims, complaints and appeals -- that'll be just fine. There will be another one who has signed such an agreement there. Of course, this project needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Once again, there are changes to the law, and there is a separate decision. The point is the same: to create a special review committee in the Supreme Council on citizens’ issues. And the law says that, and in a separate decree, so we're going to vote them separately now. I'm voting on Bill 2494, amending the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act on special review committees on citizens' appeals. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:04:55]] For -14 Not supported. The bill was rejected. And I'm betting on the vote on the bill of order number 2495. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:05:21]] For-0 Overruled. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to bring Ukraine into line with the Ukrainian Act on the Free System of Economic Activities. [[Registration number 9032]] But I don't see the author, and she's from the Royal Committee. Let's look at it without it. I am now the committee's conclusion: to accept as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is that the bill can be adopted as a basis. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:06:17]] For 203 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a bill. Two-for-two-again. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Nobody's here. Dear colleagues, today there is a delegation from the National Council of the Republic of Austria headed by its President, Barbara Prammer. I would ask, Sire, to welcome our guests and to wish them a fruitful stay in Ukraine, beautiful gatherings and vivid impressions from the hospitable Ukrainian land. Oleg Zarubinsky, please, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u142	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People’s Party. To be honest, I am a little surprised that not so many people are involved in the discussion. Because the law is really a very important, very important law. Any thing that clearly regulates the format of the allowable system is extremely important to our economy, to deregulation, and on the other hand to engage and stimulate business development, to develop business activity. There are certain positives in the bill. What do I see them in? In what is clearly defined, pretty clearly, I emphasize this when it's not allowed, and the list is complete enough. I mean, given that the bill, and the law, if we adopt it, will say, when the relevant authority of the territorial branch of an organ authorized to carry out this activity does not give permission, it should go beyond what is prescribed in the law. So the person who's trying to show his business activity and do business in a whole range of fields knows in advance what conditions he's not going to get this permission. This is positive. This is about the Ukrainian Animal World Act, where it's clearly marked. This is true of the changes proposed by the subject of the legislative initiative to the Ukrainian Red Book Act. It also says, "The basis for refusing to grant a permit is." And it's absolutely clear that there's a reason. But respectable colleagues, in general, cannot accept it, should be refined, perhaps in preparation for the second reading. Why? Because it points out that the territorial authorities of a specially authorized central executive body should function on environmental issues and natural resources. Article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine states whether it likes it or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u143	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u144	Like it or not, it is noted that the Ministry and other central executive bodies are formed, reorganized, eliminated by the President of Ukraine, and the territorial authorities of the Ministry are formed in cases where their creation is provided by the Ministry. There are no relevant ministries in the current regulations. Therefore, we need to be in line with existing legislation, especially the 106th article of the Constitution of Ukraine. Perhaps about preparing for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u145	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! An extremely serious bill, as our colleague Zarubinski really said. I would like to draw your attention to article 38, where the changes are made, and this is about standards for the marginally acceptable dumping of pollutants. It's changing a little bit. And now it's going to be written, "A marginally acceptable discount in water objects of polluting substances with reverse waters." I would like you to take a close look at this article. In principle, that kind of thing happens all the time. And now it's going down. It is predicted that these drafts of the limitly permissible discounts in water objects of polluting substances with retroactive waters are developed for the purchase of water users, which cause the discharge of water into water objects and are approved by the local authorities of a specially authorized central authority, and so on. That's not what I wanted to pay attention to. I wanted to point out that we're basically not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u147	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u148	That we don't really ask the question that we can't throw anything in the water if it's not purified 100%. This is what I wanted to pay attention to. And it was today that we rejected the bill of colleague Bondarenko, Vladimir Bondarenko, who asked that the water we drink be controlled. So I will vote in favour of the adoption of this law in the first reading. But we need to be very careful about these standards and put in some safeguards.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u149	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the basis of the Act amending certain legislation in Ukraine to bring Ukraine into line with the Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, the author of the bill is the King's. [[Registration number 9032]] [[13:12:43]] For-99 Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u150	There's an offer for pre-processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u151	For further consideration, please vote. [[13:13:08]] For 294 A supported idea. So we're sending a bill to the author of the legislative initiative for further work. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the application principle of State registration for the cessation of entrepreneurial activities of natural persons entrepreneurs is pending. [[Registration number 9048]] There's a brief proposal, please vote. [[13:13:48]] For 206 Supported. The bill's author, and it's from the committee, Natalia Kraljevska, four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I propose to you the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the application principle of State registration for the cessation of entrepreneurial activities of natural persons entrepreneurs. [[9048]] The aim of this bill is to significantly facilitate the process of putting an end to the entrepreneurial activities of entrepreneurs. You all know how difficult and burdensome it is for us to stop the entrepreneurial activity of the entrepreneurs. It includes not only an application by an entrepreneur but also a publication of a printed publication, and a collection of numerous documents, and a long wait for a reply after the application is made to the registrar. It happens that the process is delayed for months. You remember that we passed in May the Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to simplify the procedures for the cessation of legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs as they decide. But this law, unfortunately, does not make significant changes in the process of putting an end to the entrepreneurial activities of entrepreneurs, the procedure has remained complex and multi-stage. You realize, of course, that simplifying the process of putting an end to entrepreneurship is a vital necessity of life, especially for small businesses who decide to shut down their business and look for a job or register as ordinary unemployed people. And you know that they're getting more and more, those whose business has stopped making even very modest profits, and they're forced to stop entrepreneurship. What exactly am I proposing in the bill? The project proposes to significantly facilitate the process of putting an end to entrepreneurial activities for entrepreneurs and shorten the deadline to one day. Once the bill has been passed, the entrepreneur will only be able to tell the registrar that the business activity has stopped -- and that will immediately be stopped. On what basis is the ideology of the proposed changes based? On the fact that a natural person who ceases his entrepreneurial activities does not disappear. Unlike the liquidation of a legal person, the physical and business activities continue to be responsible for their debts, and the extent of their compliance does not change in any way. This applies, in particular, to the payment of taxes and to congregations. The adoption of the bill will not only greatly facilitate the cessation of entrepreneurial activities of entrepreneurs but also allow Ukraine's position in world ratings on business simplicity and increase the country's investment attractiveness. According to the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, adopting the changes proposed in the bill is beneficial and timely. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that in many countries there is not even a concept of "physical person is an entrepreneur." There any natural person can, if he wants, engage in entrepreneurial activities and pay taxes, and that's just a greeting. Hence, there is no reason to make it more difficult for us to stop doing business in our own country. The provision of a mass of all kinds of help should not be a condition for the registration of the cessation of entrepreneurial activity by a natural person. You are well aware that such an approach is natural and common in the world. Today we have the opportunity to secure it in our country. Our committee is proposing to adopt Bill 9048 as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u153	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Who wants to share in the discussion? Yeah, except for two hands, I can't see anymore. There's three, isn't there? Sign up. Landik. He's got Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u154	Thank you. I think that this bill should be accepted as a basis, because not only do our entrepreneurs have to pay for opening their case, and pay not only to the state, but also to the public, but now not closing the case, of them. They are also offered to give in their pockets all kinds of retorts. And it'll make it impossible to go out there, and so on, if we can help the entrepreneur close the case in two days, maybe without knowing how he discovered it, or because of the economic crisis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u155	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, get ready to kick ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u156	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, the legislative initiative is completely justified and logical, the idea is that businesses are being created, businesses are closing down, it's a natural practice for all countries, for Ukraine, including. And so it's probably a good idea to make it easier for the company to shut down itself. But I would like to pay attention to some things, maybe they can be considered technical, but they can be affected if they don't change some of the provisions of the bill. For example, today, apart from these documents -- they're in the Explanatory Note -- they're being submitted by the subject of the legislative initiative, and today we also need to file an application for cessation of entrepreneurial activity by the natural person who is an entrepreneur and a document that confirms payment for the publication. And if a legislative proposal is implemented without change, the adoption and implementation of this bill can make it more difficult for civil registrars to work, and that is the fact. Because there will be no information on whether the person has paid this payment required for valid legislation. And second moment. I'd like to draw Adam Ivanovich's attention, which applies to other of our bills. There is such an article. Part six of article 90 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the law of Ukraine. And it says you can make legislative changes to laws, to codes, to the basics of legislation, and so on, but you can't change the law on amendment. In this case, changes are made to the law amending the existing law. So I think we should take that into account. This is, first of all, a violation of the Rules, and second of all, it's an abnormal practice. In the original document, the original law can be introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u157	You're right. Asshole, please. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u158	I'd like you to pass it on to Volodymyr the Chaplin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u159	Caplienne's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u160	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The MP's Reforms for the Future, discussing this bill, was moving quite a bit. Why? On the one hand, in our view, there is a need to finalize this bill, particularly because changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code may need to be made to article 78 and to regulate the principle of conducting checks when the entrepreneur ceases his entrepreneurial activity, the entrepreneur person, the natural person. And the second question that we hesitated to ask is what our colleague Zarubinsky stressed: the violation of the current Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation. But when we look at the positive side, we come to the next conclusion. Everyone today knows that opening an enterprise is much easier than shutting it down. And that's true. Today, given that we have recently adopted an edition of the Tax Code according to which a whole bunch of Ukrainians are no longer able to engage in entrepreneurial activities in the form of a physical person, there is a problem today to make sure that these people leave the matter and quickly put a fat spot on the issue. What about today? You have to write a statement, publish it, wait for another check or an extra check, and so forth. Of course, this law is right because it clearly defines procedural points: what, where, and who is responsible. And it clearly states that, for example, one day he registered -- and go play. So the MP's Reform for the Future will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, given that we will fix the situation for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u161	Thank you. One minute, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u162	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. You know, honourable national deputies, we've been 147th in business, and I welcome you, we've come to 145th place. And it's also because of the way we open and close the business. This law, which Natalia Royal proposed, practically exists in many countries around the world, in many countries, and about the same, and it is seen as an anti-corruption law, no wonder. And in this case it's an anti-corruption law, because today it's extremely difficult to close down a business that's more loyal to the closure of a business that's already been shut down by the opening of the Tax Code. This calls for the adoption of this law. And what's more, I've looked at it very carefully, and I want to tell you that every paragraph is practically positive for me. You can accept it in two readings right now, because people are about to start breathing in this country in a different way, because in the European association, we're going to be treated differently. That's why I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u163	Please, Sergey Gordienko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u164	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The faction of the Company of Ukraine proposes to support Bill 9048 in the first reading. I would like to remind all the deputies that we have at our receptions and in the mail there are many letters, a lot of references when a person came, declared that they had stopped their entrepreneurial activities, and for a considerable period of time, they can't get any document, they think that they've closed it. And some structures, if she's just getting a job, then she's got some kind of misunderstanding payout. This is especially true of those who are in charge of the Employment Center. It is therefore necessary to regulate these points and vote in favour of the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u165	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the application principle of State registration for the cessation of entrepreneurial activities of natural persons entrepreneurs. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:26:43]] For-86 Not supported. The factions. The Party of Regions is 6, "BUT" is the "Fatherland" is 31, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 5, the Communists are 23, "Reforms for the Future" is 19, the People's Party has not voted, the non-fractional is 2. There's an offer to send for work. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:27:16]] For 285 Offer supported. The author’s law of pre-processing is enforced. The question is: the draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on the protection of the population and information space against negative impacts]] [[Registration number 8371]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:27:54]] For 221 Supported. Reported by the National MP, Paul Jakimovich Unguryan. From the committee to prepare for the Uklav.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u166	Dear colleagues! Bill No. 8371 was prepared by representatives of various factions: the faction of the Ukrainian Party of the Regions, the BUT faction and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The essence of this law is very simple. It's totally not normal when we, like other Ukrainian citizens, turn on the evening of television, see that on many central channels, and much more on regional television channels, there's actually an open supply of occult, magical services to the population, even incomprehensible very often. It's not normal when the pay phone calls actually involve fraud when both the kids and the adults call. And given the high cost of these calls, they are actually deceiving people financially. I'm not talking about the most important danger -- the question of moral mental impact on people, the question of spiritual, moral, mental dependence on what's going on on on television -- it's very important. If a person wants to benefit from the services of some doctor or pseudologist, if he wants to reach out to some paranormal specialist, it may be his or her personal business. But it is totally not normal when these services, when this activity takes place on a live air throughout the country, can be suffered and suffered by people already. I have a large number of citizens' signatures to support this bill, which say that thousands and thousands of people are being misled by this case every year. So we have to put it in order. The bill provides for changes to laws: advertising, print media, and television and radio broadcasting, which are prohibited.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u167	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u168	Advertise and broadcast any direct service. There is also a proposal to consult the Cabinet of Ministers with a request to consider the need for a state classification of professions such as a sorcerer, a witch, that is contrary to just our Christian nation in Ukraine. It is totally insane, illogical, without the profession of a priest, to have these professions. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u169	From the Ukolov Committee, Viktor Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Media and Freedom of Speech has considered this bill at its meeting - and decided to support the bill by a majority of votes. The first thing that interested committee members was whether this bill would reduce freedom of speech in Ukraine. In fact, we've worked it out and we recommend it to you, because it won't be. Because where there's a direct-air ban, it doesn't affect programs like "The Battle of Extrasenses," or some stories on television news. Because freedom of speech is, above all, news stories. And as for what our colleague Unguryan was talking about, the provision of direct-air occult services, of course, we support to ban it. In general, what I'd like to say is that what's happening now is bringing Ukraine back to such a flawed Middle Ages when the professions of divination and extrasence exist in the classification of professions. We'd like to see more complete this bill. But let's take a small step -- and clean up our air and the media from these medieval influences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u171	Thank you. Is that clear? No, it's not. Some want to clarify. Let's sign up. Please, Eugene Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u172	Well, really, on behalf of the faction as co-author, I want to support my colleagues. Of course, we will not build the standards that were in Soviet times. Well, my colleague asked me today, and he said, "What's good and what's bad?" Well, it's impossible to answer that question. Because since all the drafters of the bill fought the famous South Park cartoon, do you remember? And we've had Parliament fight these cartoons for, like, two years. And just so you know, these cartoons are included in the Guinness Record Book in 2007 and I read: "as an animated film with the greatest use of non-normal language." What do we get from some Playboy stars that show the weather? By the way, as a classifier, he also wanted to remind his colleagues that they had just been included during this period, let's say, orange madness, they had been included in the classification of professions yet. And on a larger scale than this advertisement, we can grow up to what we're going to be raising, and in VUZA, we can teach future astrologers and fortune tellers. Therefore, on behalf of the faction, we fully support that initiative. I hope that's the first step we've taken to think about this. Good things must be taken from all cultures, from all nations, and bad things must be left to the people where they were made. So in principle, we don't need this power of black pornography, eroticism, media corruption, or television screens. The faction would therefore vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u173	Valerius Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u174	Please pass the word to a colleague of the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u175	Caplienne's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u176	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The members of the Reforms for the Future group will put 20 votes under this bill. We didn't even try to discuss the matter at the faction meeting. But I would like to contact the legislators. Why are there only three factions? You know, it's a shame you didn't come to us, we'd put 20 signatures down. Clearly, then, in the 21st century, where we live, we cannot look at things without laughter and without sorrow at what is now happening on television screens. I'd like to list these people for you. They are witch doctors, witches, shamans, magicians, psychics, fortune tellers, spiritists, astrologers, sorcerers, fortune tellers, and so forth. Please tell me, where did the terms appear in our tongue? But it's like we're living in the 15th century where people didn't have any education. Many of them have no relation to any of the abilities there, not to the fact that it is not God’s work, and they may turn to the horn that they may be working with. So I'd like to ask for another problem, and they want money, and if they want money, why don't we put a barrier in that direction and not even put a ban on the use of companies that provide services through their phones. You know that tariffs don't come off the television company, they're coming from some middleman. And we also want to pay attention to what to do with those who are engaged in aggressive marketing, television, competitions and other "lochtrons" that we don't forbid today, but they are. I'm ashamed to turn on the TV at night, because there's definitely someone out there saying, "Call me, call me, write me, you're going to be 500 bucks." Whoa, whoa, whoa! Let's vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u177	Yes, you feel that you have nothing to do with television. Yes, please, Litwin is passing it on to Zarubinski. Follow him. Come on, let's go. We need to record.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. An honorary colleague mentioned and quoted Majakovsky, and I remember the words of modern writer Boris Akunin, who said that television today is a remote control remote control. If that's true, then the shaman, the magi, the fortune teller on TV is the remote fraud control for the viewer. And I think that in an explanatory note, a respected subject of the legislative initiative could also say the term "scrap," because in most cases, you know that very well, it's a simple fraud. In this connection, I'm a little surprised by the conclusion of the scientific and expert management, and he suggests this to be done in furtherance of this bill, and, listen to what reasons, which are: "Conforming to the first part of article 43 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to work, which includes the possibility of earning a life of work that he freely chooses or that he freely agrees to." An interesting logic of attachment to this standard of the Constitution of Fraud made up of television screens. What's even more interesting is that 1 article, part one of article 41 of the Basic Law, which is also referred to by scientific and scientific authorities. Listen, everyone has the right to own, use and manage the results of their intellectual and creative activities. What kind of activity is this? Is that fraud? I would like to remind you that in the French Declaration of Human Rights and a citizen there is that the freedom of every human being ends with the end of another person's nose. What do these magicians and fortune tellers do?Oh, my God! What are they doing? They look at the freedom of others by their fraudulent actions. This project must be voted on. And using what's still four seconds left to vote, the distinguished representatives of the profile committee, finally, to be a feedback countdown on every television channel. Please do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u179	Thank you. Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! I wanted to draw your attention to one of the more strategic aspects of the Advertising Act, because we're here to join together in our struggle against the occult. And I wanted us to have something to do with the real thing. So I'm going to read you article 59 of the Advertising Act, which is what television and radio organizations should do, according to the law that we passed a long time ago. For example, warn television viewers that their programs are paid. I have a question, are you warning everyone? Of course not all of them. Respect for national dignity. We've got a bunch of Russian classics coming in here saying what they say about Ukrainians, what they want, I don't know, or going there, on TV and asking them to go back to their homeland. And the owners of the canals have them pay the taxpayers back. So they don't bother the Ukrainians here for the money of our oligarchs. There is an article on the need to avoid spreading material that violates the presumption of innocence of a defendant or a defendant. I have a question. What, are we doing this on TV? So the first position that we would have to do as a parliament is that we have to listen to those directors of the television company, especially the First National Funding for Budget Money, and the National Council, not just for the money of the license, but in the opposition channels of the license, to take away, but also to implement the Advertising Act, which was long-adopted. Now it's second position. It was about these televisions and so on. Dearly beloved, I remind you, our colleague, Olena Condratuk, introduced this bill -- and the famous parliamentary majority didn't vote, she said, "No harm, let there be TV sets, let them take the money, so these "lochotrons" continue." Therefore, we need to be consistent in all matters. Well, at last. Of course, in the first reading, we will support the bill because it is necessary. The only thing that really needs to be thought through is the second reading of the wording, because there's language here that some MPs have to be banned from speaking on television because they also think they're capable of predicting the fate of the Ukrainian people. So we need to formulate this in such a way that we don't forbid the MPs from speaking on television. Therefore, the first reading can be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u181	Please, Olena Bondarenko, faction of the Party of Regions, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u182	Thank you very, very distinguished colleagues! The Party of the Regions will support the bill and support it for the following reasons. The quality of such services cannot be verified. This is the first moment. And second moment. I want to remind you of a very recent past, so-called ad on behalf of Nostradamus, about a white lady who will win. So that's true fraud, total embezzlement and manipulation of public opinion. Therefore, in order for this not to happen further, the regions will vote in favour of the bill. Thank the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u183	Question completed. We're all alone in the fact that this law needs to be passed. Please vote. [[13:42:18]] For 302 The Law was adopted in the first reading. Dear colleagues, we should be looking at Bill No. 8065 right now, but the bill's author is asking him to take some time off. That's why we're listening to the draft Act amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act to reduce the impact of the global economic crisis on the activities of electronic media in Ukraine, Bill No. 5096, by Karmazin Yuri. There's an offer under a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:43:07]] For 207 Yes, please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Get ready for Helen Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u184	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was tabled in 2009. He was introduced by a group of authors. This was agreed upon by our position, and Yuri Carmazin, Bondarenko Olena and Ukolov Victor, and Vladimir Landik are the authors of this bill. We proposed that article 31 be supplemented by a sixth sentence: "The National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting on the basis of a call to organisations supported by the local self-government body or the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information for a 10-day period is obliged to cancel the decision on the cancellation of licences for the use of channels of language, tele-organizations whose operation ended in a period of financial and economic crisis and which, due to economic crisis, did not have the financial capacity to pay the amount of the licensing assembly in full in respect of the time-limits established by the current legislation and to renew the licence with the postponement or disruption of payment of the licence fee. Of course, since then, serious times have passed, of course, since then the National Television and Radio Council has been completely subordinated to one single political power, which today has a majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, it is obvious that they do not need to support journalists, to maintain freedom of speech in this part. And we've already seen that Melody's radio disappeared, disappeared in Donetsk, disappeared in Kharkiv, disappeared in many other cities. And it has disappeared because the licenses have thus been removed, despite the decisions of the courts, despite their protests, despite the millions of people. I would like to support this bill, which will testify to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u185	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Helen Anatolyevna Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u186	Regrettably, the Committee did not support the bill. As early as 17 February last year, we considered it. And we recommend the Supreme Council to his perverseness. Why? Because the bill actually puts the radio company in unequal conditions. All of them have uniform standards of work, all of which have uniform conditions of work. And there are companies that can pay the license fee, and there are companies that can't. And if the bill had been updated for 2009, because the licence fee had been increased several times immediately since summer 2008, thanks to the large Kabmin under the leadership of Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko, and several local television companies had indeed broken down. At that time, for 2009, the Party of the Regions did everything possible to bring this licence fee back to normal, and we did so. There is no need to revise the scope of the work in which television companies operate. This is the first moment. And second moment. We have major problems under this bill with regard to its impact on the income part of the budget. I am the author of this bill. That is why I have the right to express my opinion. I can say that, at the moment, there is no need for this bill. The time of the financial crisis for television companies has passed, as the licence fee has been reduced thanks to, once again, the Party of the Regions, which was the initiator of the initiative. At this point, I recall once again the Committee's decision. The Committee believes that all television companies should work in equal conditions. Thank you. Therefore, our recommendation is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u187	Thank you. Sign up. Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u188	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Please give the word to Karmazin in defense of his initiative, and let him say the word again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u189	Yuri Carmazin, please. Bullying him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u190	Yuri Carmazin. I'm going to share an opinion with Vladimir Karpuk that it's a little bit more honest now, Mrs. Olena, you said something about the cost of the budget. Because you forgot that the second paragraph of the Final Order is that the act of law extends to teleorganizations, the term of the licence to use the language channel that ended in 2009. Dot, no change here. As a result, it is clear that there will be no harm to the budget. This is the first time. It's different. Yeah, really, it's not equal terms. What is the equation of the conditions where Cyprus offshore companies are standing that no one has ever heard of, and here is some Radio Melody that works for itself -- and you see that?Oh, my God! This could have been 24 billion dollars written off by gas workers. It could have been done. These were not budget losses, and they were adequate. Not write off people who seem to owe these companies. And people continue to pay these billionaires to spend more money offshore today! And you're preparing a government budget today, you're preparing a government program, and you're not giving an opinion to the Court of Auditors, at least you're not letting us hear and see. So don't ask about cancelling about 20 of these zones, the budget holes. And you say, this is going to be budget losses. My God, you're righteous, but you're lost, in those holes that are sent away every month, there's loss, there's honor! And I'd like to finish by saying that. You know, there's been a terrible murder in Odessa, the whole state knows about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u191	Thank you. This has nothing to do with each other. Asshole, please, get out of the way. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u192	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Parliamentary Group Reforms for the Future, People's Authority Party. Dear colleagues, as discussed in this bill. Indeed, it actually refers to the "Melody" radio network, which is being phased out of the information space of Ukraine by the National Television and Radio Council. What happened? I fully agree with what Mrs. Helena said. In fact, there was a very large licensing assembly, and Melody's radio was not able to pay for the economic crisis that took place, but they paid it in part. Then the licensing assembly was reduced, but until then, the National Television and Radio Council decided to take away the frequencies that were on Melody's radio and put them on the stand. Even the rulings of the courts did not prevent the National Council from doing so, and in fact the great radio network in Ukraine was under the conditions of raid. In fact, Cyprus offshore companies are behind the company that won this competition. I'm, frankly, very often listening to Melody radio, and I want to say that very often people's deputies from the Party of the Regions speak in support of this radio network. I call on you, my dear fellows, let's take perhaps not the right step in the right sense, but in a political, moral, ethical sense this is the right step. We have to protect the Ukrainian television company today, but we still have to do everything we can today to ensure that there is some justice in this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u193	Landik Volodymyr
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u194	Thank you. I am the co-author of this bill, but the author who reports it from the rostrum, I would like to say that this is the place where the government has nothing to do with it. Why did Lena Bondarenko and I develop this law? Because we were in opposition, you were in power. And that National Council, that vocation, then it led to the absence of the Radio "Melody". We went to everything, we understood that he was not fully cooperating with the National Council itself, and with the Constitution, where we were told that the National Council was a constitutional body and that the people's deputies could not tell him who to take away, whom to give and how to do. But when we were in opposition, we made every effort, including by initiating a reduction in their fees, and they were reduced to keep the radio "Melody". You picked her, and now you blame us. I'm sorry, it was you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u195	Thank you. Fomin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u196	Alexander Fomin, I give the word to Victor Ukulov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u197	Please, Skull's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u198	The Yulia Timoshenko Block, the Fatherland Party, will support this bill. The reason is that the world faces a second wave of economic crisis. And that's what international analysts are talking about, and that's what even the Deputy Prime Minister of the government of Azarov Tihypco is talking about, which calls for an agreement with the International Monetary Fund. We do not know what lies ahead. The decline in the volume of advertising that will lead to a decline in the income of the media, and the situation may again be the same as it was now. Of course, the National Broadcasting and Television Board has become a tool of pressure on the media, not just the opposition. According to all international experts, the international expert environment, Ukraine has seen a decline in freedom of speech. And the fact that the National Council leaves a tool in its hands, such as disqualifying licenses in the event of a failure to pay a license assembly during an economic crisis, gives us reason to guard against using this tool to deal with the opposition media. That is why we call on the Ukrainian people's deputies to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we all seem to speak correctly, but we forget one thing: Why the global economic crisis against lawbreakers? If there is a violation of the law, and the decision is made by the body we have formed, the Supreme Council, and the global economic crisis, explain it to me. I am voting on draft Law No. 5096: amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act to reduce the impact of the global economic crisis on Ukraine's electronic media. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:56:27]] For-61 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, I continue for 15 minutes. Bill No. 8773 is under consideration: draft Act supplementing article 121 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. [[about saving the average wage at a time of departure]] There's an offer -- it's a reduced procedure to consider. Please vote. [[13:57:09]] For-188. Offer supported. Please, from the Committee, author Suhi. Bet in two minutes, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, remember, in April 2011, we passed the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 121 of the Labour Code, with the aim of establishing guarantees for employees who are assigned to travel to ensure that they are paid a decent job while performing their duties on mission. Unfortunately, as a result of these changes, the issue that we did not settle at the time has proved to be unresolved and needs to be settled now. It refers to compensation for travel time to and from the place of destination. Because in the previous edition of article 121 of the Labour Code, average earnings were foreseen. And I want to remind you of the government that the current current revision of the Service Shipment Manual within Ukraine and abroad provides for the preservation of middle-income workers while they are on the road. Thus, the project proposes to supplement article 121 of the Labour Code with a new part that foresees that while on the way to and behind the assigned employee, his earnings are preserved. I want to tell you that this is exactly the view and this is the approach that the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council supports, and the vast majority of the Ministry's responses that we received back then. My colleagues, finally, we have to end up banging around the Labour Code since December 1981. There's no place left to live on. There is no article that is not reworked 30 times. We need to accept, we need to adopt the Labour Code immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, I think I get the idea. Except Carmazin. Yes. The "Our Ukraine" faction just insists, others don't insist? No, it's not. Then, please, the faction's leadership will determine who you're going to have. Vyziewski, please. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u202	Dear Ukrainians, when we talk about how we want to give you back what you took, we need to focus again on the following. Which, in fact, in April of the government's initiative, was very concerned about how they would compensate people, citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u203	The government of Azarov, that's right. Most accepted the amendment. And today I want to thank Vasile Hari, who has co-authored all of us without excluding the factions present in Parliament, the copyright team, and we came up with a common thought. Indeed, these adjustments offered by the wise government of Azar need to be overturned, for the stated standard was much better, and to which we are returning than the one proposed by the government. And that's why I think it's entirely fair to give a good lesson to the government not to do stupid things, because we have very serious bills that could seriously improve the living conditions of our citizens, the poorest citizens. And so, when we look at the 2012 budget, I would like it to be for those people who, apart from the state, no one else in their lives to put their shoulders on the table so that we can work harder, and government initiatives are directed at how to frame the shoulders of the country's worst living country. And then we're going to see that we're taking the budget, and after that budget, somehow our billionaires are getting more and more, just like the poor Ukrainians are getting more and more. Which is why I propose to vote absolutely and support that initiative and no longer adopt the stupid laws that the government is proposing for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u204	Thank you. For justice's sake, Yuri Anatoliyovich, when we were looking at the bill, talked about it. When's the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u205	They didn't listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u206	We did, but we didn't get it. It is under consideration, the question is closed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Act supplementing article 121 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. [[about saving the average wage at a time of departure]] [[Registration number 8773]] I'd like to make a statement. [[2:02:05]] For-93 The law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u207	By factions,
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u208	The factions. Region Party 6, Fatherland 36, Our Ukraine 10, Communists 25, Reforms 15, The People's Party didn't vote, non-fractional 1. Dear colleagues, I don't understand. How much are they paying now? They're paying for the same day, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-04-m0.u209	The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues! At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Break till 4:00. At 4: 00 p.m., you and I will come up with draft legislation related to the election of Ukraine’s national deputies.
