ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:00:35]] There are 378 National Deputies cards registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. The issue is being addressed, the draft Law on Electronic Commerce. [[Registration numbers 6086, 6086-1, 6086-2]] Is there any objection to the short-circuit procedure? I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[16:01:25]] For-173 Offer supported. Bill number 6086 will be reported by Poluniev Yuri Volodymyrovich. Prepare Korja. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u2	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Bill No. 6086 on electronic commerce is designed to establish the principles of electronic commerce, to introduce a single approach to national regulation of this important area. There are systematic relationships related to law enforcement through the global information network of the Internet, the use of electronic documents and electronic digital signatures in this network, the participation of information agents in the field of electronic commerce, and the responsibility of electronic commerce entities for wrongdoing in the field of electronic commerce. The fact that the Supreme Council registers immediately three bills on electronic commerce, an active social response to this, shows the importance and relevance of the legislative regulation of electronic commerce and the development of information technology in Ukraine. Professional, expert, and public discussion of these draft laws is ongoing. Bill No. 6086 was generally supported by entrepreneurs, experts and the public. Positive conclusions have been received from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The analysis of alternative draft laws and the expert conclusions presented allows me to conclude that most of the draft rules of Law No. 6086-1, 6086-2 are essentially congruent with the basic norms and provisions of the bill that I report on, as well as the need to take account of the second reading if this bill is adopted in the first, separate proposals and observations of the expert environment and public authorities. The Chief Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking, having considered the draft legislation at its meeting and taking into account the number of comments and suggestions received, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft Law on Electronic Commerce in the first reading. [[Registration number 6086]] So the bill on electronic commerce number 6086 is directed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u4	about acceptance in the first reading. Please support this important bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u5	Thank you. Next bill, Korz Vitaly Terentiyovich, please. Get ready, Jacek.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u6	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I must point out that the consideration of these three bills was carried out in violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the list, quantity and subject matter of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's sixth vocation. According to which Main Committee was to be designated the Committee on Transport and Communications, which dealt with information technology and information. In spite of this, however, the Committee on Finance and Banking was appointed. In its conclusions, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority notes that drafts in many positions coincide, but each project has a position that is better presented than other projects. Many suggestions and good points are also made. The management therefore considers it appropriate to reject all three bills in the first reading and to develop a single project based on the proposed bills, taking into account the comments and suggestions made. I think this is the most rational approach, but this is not in line with the conclusions of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Therefore, if the Supreme Council adopts a bill in the first reading, the relevant decision should contain clear requirements for the mandatory consideration of the provisions of the other two alternative bills. [[author of Poluniev]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u7	Thank you. Vitalia Terentiyovich, the point is that any bill we accept, then, when preparing for the second reading, the authors have the right to make their own proposals, because there is no alternative. Okay. And the Yatzenka bill. No one represents. I can't see. Then if you would like to participate in the discussion, please sign in. Taras Cranwiel, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I won't take much time. I just want to point out that the expert environment has been addressed on more than one occasion by many members of the Supreme Council, and I want to make them think that this legislation is necessary. Today, indeed, there is a need for legislative regulation of these issues, and there are suggestions from the expert community that, first of all, the bill of Poluniev should be chosen as the basis for further elaboration. In a way that is better in the view of the people who have to deal with these laws, the substance of the phenomenon is reflected in the methodology. And therefore, on behalf of us, as you say to the MP group, I would like to stress, in accordance with the Rules of Full Rights, which are entirely fundamental to factions, that I submit requests for support in this case to the Poluniev bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u9	Thank you. Tarase Viačeslavovich, I confirm your statement that your group has rights such as the faction, but you are called a group. Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u10	Dear National Deputies! Indeed, the subject of electronic commerce is relevant to our nation. But today we have three almost identical bills, which, in turn, are an exact copy of that bill that was passed at the international assembly of the countries of the SND and is a framework. And he can't be, he can't be, he can't be, he can't be, he can't be, he can't be, he can't be, he can't be, he can be, he can't be, he can be, he can be, he can be, he can be, he can be, he can be, he can be, he can be, he can be, he can And that is why this law today is contrary to a series of laws that are already in force. This is the Law on Payment Systems, this is the Law on Electronic Digital Signature and the Civil Code, on Telecommunications and many more. So before adopting this bill or this framework law that has been proposed in the SND countries, first countries bring their own legislation into line, especially in terms of electronic signatures, electronic money, and then they're already developing this bill. So let me give you some examples. For example, when you talk about electronic money and all three authors say that electronic money is just a substitute for banknotes and coins, or cash. That's not the case, because the cash-free one is the largest number of forms of money, so that's not the correct interpretation. In terms of signature, there's an electronic signature for natural persons, there's an electronic signature for legal persons, there's a digital signature for state organizations, there's an electronic signature with certified keys and many more. There are three models of electronic commerce: for individuals, for legal persons, and for statesmen, so you can't throw everything into one pile. That's why my proposal is consistent with the opinion of the National Bank of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, that all of them should ask the authors to come together in one group, to submit a bill before making appropriate changes to the laws in force, or else it becomes a contradiction. And then consider this basic law that was proposed in the SND countries. So I suggest you turn all three of them back and make one bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u11	Thank you. Question completed. I will put to the vote the bills that we have discussed. And once again, I'm noticing, my fellow respects, once again, that because it's a new law, if we accept it. There will be no 216 articles of the Rules on what he said if it was not in the first, it is not possible to go to the second. That is, each of the drafters of the bill has every reason to make his own proposals when preparing for the second reading. And we're going to ask the committee to really take the best of every bill to create a good document to serve the good cause. I'm making a proposal for adoption on the basis of Bill No. 6086 – on electronic commerce. The author of the bill is a colleague of Poluniev. Please vote. [[16:12:04]] For-47 Not supported. Bill 6086-1, author of the bill, Korge, is on the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:12:29]] For the Not supported. And Bill 6086-2, the author is Yatzenko. Your friend, too, Roman Mikhailovich. [[16:12:56]] For-0 Dear colleagues, perhaps this is the case. The Committee's conclusion is to accept 6086. The main scientific and expert management is all suggesting that we go to work. Let's go, who won the most, 47 votes, and I'll propose to vote on Bill 6086 for further work. Please vote. We're voting on the back-up. [[16:13:45]] For 249 Copy that. And let's talk publicly, as they say, and openly to colleague Poluniev, that if he were to work out a draft for re-examination, really, so that he or all three authors could be -- that would be better, or he would take what he thinks is positive in those bills that we've been talking about today. We are considering a re-examination of the position of the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Application of Amnesty in Ukraine and Other Legislative Acts. [[Registration number 4179]] According to Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanović, a representative of the President of the Supreme Council. Please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u12	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I won't take up much of our time because we have very important drafts in the daytime. This bill, according to the President, although it touches on an extremely important topic of amnesty, you know that the Supreme Council is considering a bill on the application of amnesty for 2011, and the President is initiating its inclusion into the debate. At the same time, in this same law that we have approved with you, a number of provisions violate the Constitution of Ukraine, the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, and the President is accordingly proposing that we reject it. [[by number 4179]] I call on the deputies, whether it's the majority or the minority, to support the President's proposal, but not to finish the job in that direction. We may be able, through a new legislative initiative, to address the systemic issue of amnesty in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u13	Is there a question, Yuri Romanovich? Besides Chernobyl, no one else has it? Please, Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u14	Dear Yuri Romanovich, please tell me, wouldn't it be better now not to take the great time-out again at a time when the subject is really hot and painful, to support the committee's proposal? She's not going to beat the President's veto either. We understand, first of all, that's not going to happen. The second is in the position of the President where he argues it, there are also very wise and right things. But some of the things that are in the law, they need to be said about them that they're narrowing down human rights -- I don't think that's right either. And the committee is proposing that a profile bill be sent to them for further processing, as prescribed by the Rules, is the norm. When they take part in taking the President's proposals into account, they're partially reworked, in their proper way, to return to the Supreme Council, and then to be definitively defined. Because some things, like applying amnesty to a court decision, well, if you'll excuse me, for my part, when you amnesty a person who was involved in my father's murder, well, it's hard for me to vote here to support the position that it's, I said, not to uphold human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u15	Thank you, Taras Viacheslavovich. I can't, in any way, support or deny the decision of the committee right now, because this is a matter of the Supreme Council, I represent the President's position, which is that not all of us, of course, are in such a position that they don't comply with the Constitution. But some of them narrow down rights and freedoms. That's why the president is suggesting that this law be repealed. As far as processing is concerned, this work can be carried out, including by working with experts and the President’s Administration. I don't deny cooperation. What will be the decision, we'll know in a few minutes when we vote. But the president is proposing that this bill be repealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u16	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u17	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Yuri Romanovich! Perhaps you remember how I convinced you here and said, in the way that there is, this law cannot be passed. I spent time again, again asking the President to veto this law. The truth was, I asked him to fix it, not destroy it at all. Because of this, Your Honor Yuri Romanovich, there is obviously a need and practice of the President's veto, which is already in this, by the way, after the veto, this President is more effective than the previous President, please look carefully, but he's vetoing the decisions that your majority is making. Because of this, there is obviously a need to listen to opposition, and this is the way, the bridge to understanding in society at all, to make things go faster and better. That's why I have an offer. Is it possible to postpone this consideration of this bill so that you can convince the President that there will be a law to be passed, but in a different edition and give.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u18	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. As far as deferral is concerned, it's not my jurisdiction, it's the competence of the Supreme Council, so I'm not going to comment on that. As for the position of the President, he does not divide the Supreme Council into a majority and a minority. And you have your own experience because of the appeal when the President listened, including to your suggestions. You have addressed me today as the President's representative on concerns about the quality of the laws that are being approved. And that is why the President, as a guarantor of the Constitution, of human rights and freedoms and of a citizen, no matter what decision it is made, whether by the Supreme Council or by the Cabinet of Ministers, uses the instruments provided for in the Constitution, including the veto, to protect human rights. And the opposition’s initiatives are equally acceptable and considerable if they adopt such an approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u19	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u20	And with regard to the possibility of, let's say, returning to this subject, I will personally initiate, if there is no initiative on the part of the MPs, for the President to enact a system law on the application of amnesty in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u21	First Deputy Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolayovich Olijnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u22	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! On February 17, 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Amnesty Application in Ukraine and Other Legislative Acts of Ukraine. On March 11, 2011, the president of Ukraine applied the veto to the said law and suggested that it be rejected as one that narrows down the content and scope of existing human and civil rights and freedoms. The Committee on Law Enforcement took part in the discussion of the President's proposals by prominent academics in the field of constitutional and criminal law, as well as by legal practitioners, who also came to the agreed conclusion that the Constitution of Ukraine and the Criminal Code of Ukraine for persons who are involved in criminal responsibility and convicted of a crime do not provide for such a right as the right to approve the Amnesty Act. These individuals are freed from amnesty punishment only when the legislator has declared amnesty by means of the enactment of the law and the execution of the condemned acts falls under this amnesty. Nor did the legislator determine whether it was appropriate to adopt the Amnesty Law, and the convicted person cannot claim compulsory exemption from amnesty punishment. The Committee on Law Enforcement has adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 135, paragraph 8, of the Supreme Council’s Rules, to send a bill to the Main Committee. [[Registration number 4179]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u23	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, there are two proposals for this bill. One proposal by the President that he might be rejected, another proposal that I consider more realistic at this stage, is a proposal by a committee of professionals to send this bill to the committee. The problem here is that, in fact, you and I don't have a basic amnesty law, and on average, every two years we pass amnesty laws for one year or another. It would be worth adopting on the basis of a basic law. The first will be the President's motion to reject Bill 4179 amending the Ukrainian Amnesty Act in Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:23:54]] For 215 Now, the proposal for a profile committee is to forward Bill 4179, amending the Ukrainian Amnesty Act in Ukraine to a committee for further development. Please vote. [[16:24:25]] For 257 We're sending a committee to work with them to take into account the President's proposals, as far as possible, what is there, in his comments, and we've considered it. Re-reading, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of permit procedures, registration number 6220. Kseniya Mikhailna, if we're short, can we? There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:25:17]] For 212 Offer supported. Please, Kseniya Mikhailni Leapina. Since she will report both as the author and as the committee, please for four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u24	Thank you. Well, I'll try. It's tight enough. This bill is intended to comply with the Act on the Allowance System of Two Laws: The Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Legislation on Health Protection and the Second Act on Labour Protection. There are articles in both of these, and there are articles in the second law that don't fit the current version of the Freedom System Act. That's what I'm proposing to bring them into line. On the basis of Ukrainian legislation on health. Article 74.1 is proposed in a new edition, and it is aimed at distinguishing the activities of persons who have special medical education and practice on the basis of the Ministry of Health’s licences, from those who do not have special medical education and for whom a permit at the beginning of their activities is a special permit for national medicine, for purpose. Such permits are still today, but neither the process of issuing them has been regulated nor the deadline for which they are to be issued has been established, no grounds for refusing or revoking this permit or recasting it, as required by the Freedom System Act. Actually, in my article 74.1, all of these settings are given. It is indicated that within a 30-day period, the permit must be issued. The reasons for the refusal are specified. These are the reasons why this authorisation should be recast and cancelled. The second is the Labour Protection Act. There it is suggested that article 21 organize the issue. the cancellation and issuance of duplicate permits for the start of the work of the increased risk and the start of the use of high-risk equipment. Similarly, clear grounds are established and a procedure for the removal and cancellation of such permits is established. Please be supportive. I think that the adoption of this law will simply improve and streamline arbitrary activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u25	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Please sign up. She's both the author and the from. Yes, please. Please sign up for the performance. Viacheslav Kirilenko. Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u26	I'm sorry. I'm just going to add that there's actually a positive conclusion on the profile committee. There's support, as far as I know, for the appropriate government authorities, we agreed with them. There are some observations from the science department. But in my opinion, the second reading of this bill takes into account a number of these observations. In particular, the Scientific and Expert Office notes that during these few months, some changes have taken place in the law, and it is worth pointing out that the relevant subjects are applying for the release or conversion of the permit into a single window. That's really worth adding. And actually, to the second reading, I think on the committee we'll definitely add that wording. I think the support of this bill will just improve the normal work of the public authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u27	Thank you. Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u28	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Honorable national MPs, personally, I always make and support those reasonable suggestions that relate to simplifying the work of those or other businesses, those or other people who benefit our society or our family, or themselves, including those that they do by virtue of their obligations, by virtue of their profession and others. But we also need to understand clearly that we have a simplified system, whether we need to license activities or not, whether we need to reduce requirements or not. As far as I am concerned, human health is concerned, and we should approach this area with caution. Because you know, even if you look, you don't have to go far, on our television set, especially in the evening, how many different doctors, counselors, doctors, and so on are giving advice to some people about how to cure one or the other. And in fact, of course, national medicine, as it is called, or national doctors, who are, are people who really give people useful advice, treat people. But among these people who are now engaged in this kind of activity, I think, are a lot of people who have nothing to do with the ability to implement programs. But because of some or other issues, if a person has a medical education and is granted such a right, in my view, the state will not always control the process itself, but it does not provide a guarantee to a person who may suffer any harm to his health. So I'm this law, personally, I'm not going to support it because it has some flaws, but if you look at it as a whole, you have to look at it more broadly, not just from the point of view of the arbitrary system. Because there are a number of documents that are now regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers, including the free system that there is. There are decisions where these issues have been substantially reduced and where the permit system is concerned, or the system is not granted. That's why I'm counting on the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u29	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u30	In the Cabinet of Ministers today there are sufficient, sufficient legitimate grounds to regulate these issues and to reduce accordingly what is happening today is the type of license systems and so on. I personally don't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u31	Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u32	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! This bill refers to two completely different concepts. Think about the protection of work, the use of machine tools, and the witch doctoring, the healing, the access of large masses of healers to medicine, and the assistance of people. What's with the combination? The answer is simple: Since this law was not adopted in the preceding reading, it was complemented. Now it's about the substance of this bill. Do you know what's proposed here? Here it is proposed to allow the treatment of Ukrainian citizens of all persons who will show their wish, any person who will just fill out the correct package of documents and submit it to Minhhrat. This is now permitted, but the Ministry of Health controls this license issue. In this bill, witchcraft is out of license. And now one committee, in fact, one person in the Ministry is going to issue a special license for "Uncle Vani and Aunt Vera" there to treat people without any control. But there is one condition, and this condition is even more strange. Think, please, you can do craftsmanship even if you don't have any medical education, no secondary and primary education, but if you register as an entrepreneur. Think about it, please! Perhaps there are people in the country who have taken on great experience and who are unselfishly helping people. Thus, it will now be prohibited to be punished by law. And the one who does the same thing, only registered as an entrepreneur and has to go to tax and report every month, will do so legally. Come on, people, we're not going to mix different concepts, Adam Ivanovich, this law, you know, if we were to talk about revolution and teenage-police. In the same law, we have united this, which is the same law. The Yulia Timoshenko faction will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u33	Question completed. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill 6220, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of permit procedures. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:35:55]] For 232 Who's for coming back, please make up your mind. [[16:35:24]] For 237 We're back. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the 6220 bill, which amends some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of permit procedures. [[16:35:55]] For 232 The first reading was accepted. Yes, dear colleagues, let's consider a series of drafts that we've included at the morning session today and determined that we're going to work with them at the evening session. There is a question, registration number 8316, the draft Act amending section VI, paragraph 3, of the Code of Budgets for Ukraine. [[on the international “Cyclonal-4” project]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. For 219 Supported. Deputy Finance Minister Ribak Sergey Alexanderovich. None. Then from the committee, please. Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies and invited, the Committee on Budget Affairs has today considered a bill amending section VI, paragraph 3, of the Budget Code, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers at number 8316. The bill proposes not to extend to the implementation of the international project “Cyclonal-4” the requirements of part four of article 17 of the budget code, which provides that guarantees are not provided to secure the debt obligations of economic operators if the source of their return is the cost of the state budget. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, a draft of the first reading may be accepted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. It should be noted that article 9 of the State Budget Act for this year defines the total amount of government guarantees in the amount of 15 billion dollars and the excluded list of directions for granting State guarantees. One of these is the financing of investment development projects of strategic importance and implementation of which will contribute to the development of Ukraine's economy. The government's decree of December 23th of this year includes the creation of a space missile complex called Cyclone-4. According to the Ministry of Finance, the adoption of the bill is supported. In doing so, Minfin notes that in the event of the adoption and inclusion of credit funds this year it will be necessary to make appropriate changes to the State Budget Act 2011 in part of the increase in the expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget to the State Space Agency and Service and possibly the repayment of such loans. On the basis of the draft bill, the Committee on Budget Affairs approved the decision to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council. [[No. 8316]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u35	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u36	The committee recommends the adoption of a bill as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u37	Yes, thank you, I understand the situation. Is there a need to speak? Please sign up. Yes, please, George the Ripper, positive activity today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u38	Thank you. Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Well, of course we have a future out of space. It's also high-tech, it's basically what they say communications are supposed to be. So, of course, the orders that Ukraine is going to make will be able to support the Southern complex and our space building for the future. Well, if it didn't work out with the flight attendants, at least we'd support space. Please, let's support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u39	Yes, Gregory Smythech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u40	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. And I will personally support this law because this law is designed to support some part of our industrial complex. And it's the creation of the Cyclone-4 program, which today is the only one in our country, or it could be one of the only programs that can still function a little bit on the international competitive environment in terms of our big technologies. And that's the only example, in my view, where we're still holding on and the Supreme Council has to do everything we can to not only stick to it, we've been developing this subject, because it gives us prestige as a state that actually joins countries that have a space field. That's the first question. The second question. You know, unfortunately, in our society, it's happened so much that in the last 20 years, Ukraine's independence is 20 governments. And each government speaks of its own program, and sometimes forgetting our international commitments. You know, if Ukraine has a bearing on Brazil today, if Ukraine has already invested certain funds and if Ukraine wants to stay in this market, we should continue these programs and support, including budget money or the possibilities that the Supreme Council is authorized to do. So I call on this program to support and continue to support those programs that really give us a breakthrough in the economy or in the high technology of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u41	Thank you. Nigga Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u42	Dear friends! I want to remind those who don't know, it's about the changes to the Budget Code that you and I recently adopted and somehow forgot to write about space there, and now we're writing. Well, I wonder why. I was unable to find out on the budget committee today, as I did not understand why we were in such a hurry to meet with the budget committee on an urgent basis. This is $260 million, or almost $2 billion. And I don't think they're too much for us. And the fact that there's not yet any prospect that they're going to be paid by the borrower himself on this project, I want to tell you that in 2004, you've already taken $150 million of credit under State guarantees, and now the state is paying this loan instead of paying off the authors of this project. So the big question is, do we need this, do we have any more of this money, maybe this money is going to have to be given to something else? The conquest of space is a great goal, it's a great mayor. But, dear friends, you and I have many things to do on earth and many problems on earth. So instead of launching peaceful bubbles into space, I think we should pay attention to our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u43	Thank you for the classic speech of the opposition. Dear colleagues, you understand that this is the prestige of our Ukrainian state, this is international cooperation, this is where we actually do something and we have some positive effect, namely with the state of Brazil. Why is there a degree of haste? Because there are certain international relationships, there must soon be a meeting at the president's level and, of course, there is such a bill that we can implement it. I think we have every reason to support this bill. The only thing that I'm paying attention to again is both the Ministry of Finance and our Committee of Budgets, so that we can make appropriate changes to the State Budget Act 2011 if we adopt this law. And I hope we accept it now. You know that you and I have committed the Cabinet of Ministers to submit with the results of the first half of the addition and amendment to the State Budget Act, and with that information that is now coming and yesterday at the Conciliation Council has spoken from the First Vice-Prime Minister's mouth, without even waiting for the first half of the year to come, some changes will be proposed, and when we consider changes related to, for example, teachers' wages and so on, we're going to have to consider these changes under Cyclone-4. I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt bill 8316 amending section VI, paragraph 3, of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. [[on the international “Cyclonal-4” project]] Please vote. [[16:45:45.]] For 282 Thank you. Copy that. We're looking at a draft decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Voice of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8325]] As one of the drafters of the bill and the rapporteur, I propose that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:46:17]] For 213
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, let me give you some information. The leadership of the Supreme Council, Head and his deputies, are bringing to your attention a draft decree on the newspaper of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, "The Voice of Ukraine". What does this have to do with anything? This is related to two points. First of all, we need to regulate the activities of our body, the Supreme Council, namely the Voice of Ukraine, and bring the statute of regulation into line with the current legislation. Because the statute was also approved by the Presidency of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR until March 18, 1991. Undoubtedly, this no longer corresponds to the normative base on which the media should operate today. The second problem that requires us to make a decision today is that there are some contradictions in the financing of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. The Voice of Ukraine is financed in the same way as the newspaper Government Courier is financed in a single line under the State Budget Act. But this funding doesn't go directly to the Voice of Ukraine, but it goes to the Supreme Council. And now the Supreme Council is funding the publication of the Voice of Ukraine. It is therefore proposed to establish that the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine represents the interests of the founder of the newspaper, and the founder of the newspaper is the Supreme Council in part of the financial and technical provision of the publication of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, and to conclude an agreement with the newspaper Voice of Ukraine on the preparation of the publication and distribution of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Under the statute proposed, the statute proposed will be a state-owned enterprise, once again an emphasis, a state-owned enterprise edited by the Voice."The Voice of Ukraine." The state firm will be responsible for the preparation and publication of the newspaper, the founder of the newspaper, I stress again, is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The newspaper is a public authority. The government authority that directs the work of the editor is the Supreme Council and its competence is the authority of the Supreme Council: the approval of the statute of the editor; the amendment and additions thereto, the decision on the organisation or liquidation of the editor; the appointment and release of the editor-in-chief; the determination of the state order for tasks, scope and order of information for the founder's activities; the implementation of the objective and the main directions in the activities of the editor; the provision of budgetary funding and so on. I mean, once again, my esteemed colleagues, which we should practically bring into line with the current legislation the statute of regulation that has been in force since 1991, and define the transparent direction of financing this body. Thank you. Please, from the committee, please, Andrew Shevchenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, the decree was registered four days ago. Therefore, the committee has not yet considered this decision. At the same time, we have repeatedly considered the situation that has to do with the Voice of Ukraine in committee meetings. And I can fully confirm those words that have been said that we are a legally unregulated situation around the parliamentary newspaper. In particular, one simple example. We have, on the one hand, a formal Voice of Ukraine is a newspaper founded by the Supreme Council, on the other hand, from the point of view of the Master Code, we have this newspaper published by a labor team. That is, every year we transfer the budget to a person who is not legally connected, from the point of view of the Code of Lords, to Parliament. Moreover, last year there was a lawsuit that involved the unregulated financing of the newspaper. So I think we should all welcome the leadership efforts of the Supreme Council to regulate the legal status of the Voice of Ukraine. I think we still have to want a team that works in this paper to work in a balanced way. And I'm going to say that maybe the time will come when we're going to consider the issue of press deterrence, the reform of the state press, and it's from the Voice of Ukraine that we start this important process. So I would personally urge myself to support this determination, which is very timely.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u46	Thank you, Andrey Vitalyovich. We're the only ones who'll end up with a "voice." Let us learn from others that this is not the case. Yes, are there willing to discuss? Please sign up. Yes, please, Popescu and Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u47	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Of course, we have to solve the issue of the status of the Voice of Ukraine. But in parallel, after we vote and take this decision, we should mention that in due course it was "The Voice of Ukraine" that supported the apps in the languages of national minorities. A big mistake was made when these apps were handed over to the State Committee on Nationalities and Migration. We're about to reorganize. This committee is no longer formally de jure. All functions are passed on to the Ministry of Culture. I think there's a point then to go back with these apps in the languages of the national minorities and return to the Voice of Ukraine. Today, we support this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u48	Thank you. Yes, please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u49	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We support the adoption of this provision and the revised statute. Time requires novelty. But, Adam Ivanovich, I want you to listen. We accept the new edition and we rule out the fact that the editor-in-chief of this newspaper is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, even today, we are writing in a new edition that is decided by the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. Well, the original edition is already the Supreme Council. It would have to be changed. What is the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR? What is the Ukrainian RSR today? And what I want to say in general is that there are interesting materials and interesting stories about wakes and interviews with people’s deputies. Although experience has shown that not all national MPs have equal rights. There's a fractional quota, there's a committee quota, but there are authors who are constantly published. And even in recent years, it can be concluded that the Head of the Supreme Council has a huge influence on drafting policies. As one Head of the Supreme Council, some trends are reflected, even in political views or views and priorities, or in social or economic development. The Head of the Supreme Council is changing -- it's changing accordingly. Although the journalist remains. This is of no use to the newspaper as a body of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u50	Thank you. Volodymyr Georgiyovich, you remember the famous phrase that I was swinging along with party politics. So don't blame the press here. This is the life we have here. Yes, please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, from the author's team, I'm going to say that this is really a mature issue, and it's very important that, now and perhaps with the fact that we're legitimizing clear rules of the game, and the editor-in-chief is now, in fact, an official who is authorized by a single official who is authorized by the entire Supreme Council, only the entire Supreme Council can release the Chief Editor. Thus, he has a more independent status and a working group can feel more comfortable at the same time. The only thing that is common, and as I was the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, was always the eternal problem of the balance between power and opposition, between factions and here, of course, the editors need to be correct in this part so that the Voice of Ukraine really is the newspaper of the entire parliament, where there would be all of the multifaceted and multicolored in the political sense, and the speeches and positions represented. So I'm convinced that with the adoption of this document, the Voice of Ukraine will improve its activity in the same part as those district administrations and libraries, because we're a single newspaper that's coming into the rural area, in fact, will see different aspects of political, humanitarian and socio-economic processes in Ukraine, and it'll help us to get a sense of our not easy life. And so, as co-author of this document, I would also like to support the document and wish the Voice of Ukraine an active and honest work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u52	Thank you. The discussion is over. Dear colleagues! Literally small information, this charter and relevant documents were prepared for four months now, and the Chief of the Supreme Council has created a special working group. I personally held three or four meetings, including representatives of the editors, all agreed upon, we have to take with you today, I think, a balanced decision that will allow the editor to work in the legal field. This is one moment. And second moment. Maybe I'm expressing a subjective opinion, but when I read the Voice of Ukraine, I can't conclude that it is biased towards a political power. Each of us national deputies has the opportunity to express and express the thoughts he has expressed. I mean, it's probably different here from the Voice of Ukraine, that it's at the top of the line in this respect. I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine resolution on the Voice of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8325]] Please support everyone. All in attendance shall vote. [[16:57:18]] For 304 Thank you. It's been decided. It's proposed to consider a draft decree marking the 140th anniversary of Vasil Stefanik's birth. [[Registration number 8182]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:57:52]] For-198 Supported. I can't see Moses. Please, then, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u53	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Moses gave me his two minutes because he has some very important things there, so let me have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u54	All right, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u55	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Good afternoon, Ukraine! Ukrainian Culture, Ukrainian Spirituality, Ukrainian Literature has many unique names, unique, wonderful. Basil Stefanik is absolutely unique, even on this very rich and wide background. I'm opening up a letter from Vasil Stefanick. Because his creativity, I think the people's deputies are mostly familiar with correspondence. Here's the whole thing: "You have to be a spirit to love yourself and the silence of loneliness. I feel as if my head were spinning and I was jumping like a rock into the valley. Me. It takes a lot of white hands to pat me on the head, and a lot of rough lips to yell at me and say, "Don't worry, I won't give you up." As long as he had snatched the sparrow from the nest and fell, my mother would pat me and whine on the head and say it would be easier. Indeed, it was easier because I was back in the nest. My forest is yellow and is like a millet, and the biggest tree has a lot of crows. I'm sitting under that tree, thinking of a brother who hanged himself, and I'm looking forward to not being found so long on that tree." This is from his letter to Olga Kobilian, an outstanding Ukrainian poet of Europe, not a furry scribe. The creativity of Vasil Stefanik is small, and you can't put him next to John Frank, who wrote about 100 volumes. But the same Franco said about him: "How short, loud and scary this man writes!".. His novices are made up of pain itself. Remind this father who is leading his daughter to drown because there is nothing to feed. Remind him of another, another level of his novel when a woman comes from a church with a man and quiet, quietly twists him, puffs him, puffs him up, talks to him, and speaks and introduces him. And the novel ends, "And I started to fight, because I had to beat.".. Stefanic, with his Stone Cross, is an epoch about the first Ukrainian immigrants, the labour emigration that went there to Brazil. And I got lucky with Yuri, there's no Jurk, unfortunately, to be in Brazil in the state of Parana. Where people live in the fourth generation, from the Stone Cross of Vasil Stefanik, who have not forgotten, by the way, their language and their sunflowers are blooming under their windows, it's amazing. Yuri Kostenko and I were there about in 1992. So this is a writer who's never gone out into some big, wide world that wrote some good 30-40 novels. But in these novels, the great life of this penance was because it was an amazing trinity. This is the man who, when the Cherry died, he tied up his horses, drove these horses to his village, ran to him already dead and shouted, "What have you done, you fool!" - over a dead man. Stefanik is truly a unique absolute phenomenon. I'd like to add to that that he was an ambassador or a member of the then autocratic parliament, along with his test. Adam Martinyuk was already here reminding us of the continuation of Stefanic, of his sons, with a truly remarkable talent. As a result, we are convinced that this decision must be made. Stephaniek's Jubilee needs to be marked and shown in a film called "The Stone Cross" is a unique, brilliant film that was filmed in our studio "The Debt." Only Adam Ivanovich has one request. I would ask you not to write "Master of Expressionism.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u56	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u57	"Master of Expressionist Novela" is not the level of government document to determine styles there. Just an outstanding Ukrainian writer and public figure, and then everything will be in place. I am convinced that you will vote in favour of this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u58	I was going to propose the same thing, but I was afraid because I thought it was your phrase about the novelist. Shall we vote? I propose to take the Order to commemorate the 140th anniversary of Vasil Stefanik's birth by making the amendment proposed by his colleague Yavorowski. [[Registration number 8182]] Please vote. [[17:03:28]] For 311 It's been decided. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The State of Pension Reform and the Ways of Improving It" is under consideration. [[Registration number 8205]] Reports Suškevitch Valeriy Mihajlovich. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:04:04]] For 206 Supported. Please, microphone, Suškevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u59	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the Supreme Council Order of 17 December 2010, held parliamentary hearings on 16 February of the current year on "The State of Retirement Reform and its Ways of Improvement". I want to say that there have been record numbers of people involved in our hearings, about five hundred people, including national deputies, government representatives, ministries, authorities, government committees, experts, international experts and experienced pension reform managers, public organizations. In reviewing the implementation, and starting with January 1, 2004, of the reform of the pension system and its current critical and problematic situation, I would like to point out that the committee agrees with the government's proposal that there should be a significant increase in the process of implementing relevant reforms in this area. But their adjustment, taking into account the accumulated national and international experience and socio-economic conditions in the country today. But the position of the committee remains unchanged. Because these should be systemic steps not only in the social sphere but also in other areas, especially in the economic field. My colleagues, I would like to point out that the committee, based on a thorough analysis of the situation with the pension system in Ukraine, notes that among all the stabilizing factors it is necessary to choose the priorities. The priorities of national legislation, which will significantly reduce the pension deficit and become a major resource for the implementation of the second level of the pension system. All the proposals, I emphasize all the proposals, were very carefully worked out on our committee, they were as much taken into account as possible. And based on the concept of the need to define state-wide systemic, complex measures that will allow for real Ukrainian pensions, in the absolute definition that is known in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u60	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u61	In fact, the pension depends on the salary and the work experience. My colleagues, I would like to point out that, thanks to the parliamentary hearings, we have done more work for the government today on this reform. The results of the parliamentary hearings, I think, have also been heard by the President of Ukraine and have drawn attention to the same points that are on our recommendations today. I appeal to everyone to adopt the draft parliamentary hearing recommendations on the subject of "Standing for Pension Reform and its Ways of Improving" as a basis for our meeting as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u62	Thank you. We'll sign up for the performances if they're desirable. Please, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u63	Sobolev, the Yulia Timoshenko Block, the Reform and Order Party. My fellow Members, I think what Parliament has done during parliamentary hearings on pension reform is a unique event in the last year of the reign of Mr. Yanukovic as President. What the government of Azarov has developed, and what was directly given to Mr. Tihypco, we have at the end of the day an opportunity to learn about how to destroy a pensioner in Ukraine, and I think that Parliament has given its rightful answer, and that this has happened not only with the help of the deputy corps, but also with the numerous comments of world-level professionals who appreciated the innovation of the government of Azarov-Janukovich, I think it is worth answering because of what was being prepared in the country. But I am convinced that the authors of this bill have not stopped, which is why this decision will allow for a clear and lasting set of dots. Retirement reform is, but not on the basis of a simple pensioner, but on the basis of order of those who have super-retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u64	Please, Karpuk Vladimir. Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u65	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u66	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, the pension reform can't be separate from the global economic changes and reforms, and that's exactly what there is, because it's not, because it's only by increasing the retirement age, the insurance age and other complications for pensioners of the present and future that pension reform can be done wrong. Above all, there is a need for pay reform, a reform that reduces the burden on the payroll fund. In fact, the development of the reform of the only social contribution that has been made, but has not yet given entrepreneurs and employers a reduction. Consider the distribution of social contributions between employees and employers. And without any reduction in the workload on the payroll fund, no pension reform will take place, because there will still be no money available for the Pension Fund. What does the government offer? He doesn't want to take radical steps to reduce the sole social contribution. He offers indicative wages. I don't know where else in civilized countries there are indicative wages, and who's going to be able to figure out this amount of indictability. And he offers prisons for all those who will be found by a supervisor, a hired worker who is allegedly unaccounted for. I mean, half a country under that law from the government will have to be put in jail. All economics is pension reform! [[Tyres]] In view of this, I fully support what I have proposed to the committee on the outcome of the hearings on pension reform issues. It says that the government should first review its government concept for further steps towards the implementation of pension reform. And secondly, the government has to call off this bill on the so-called pension reform of Parliament in this case and not pretend that nothing happened, because Parliament doesn't even consider it, because it's scary even the ruling majority, and it doesn't call off, because it's a political responsibility. Let us vote the verdict and there will be a legitimate basis for recalling this reform on pension genocide.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u67	Thank you. Yeah, in a minute then. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u68	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! All the reform laws initiated by the President, the Government, are adopted through dialogue with society, debates, round tables and the final chord in the final decision on the vote, under the draft Pension Reform Act, we should have planned parliamentary hearings. But as a result of public debate, there were many serious issues, in substance, in the content of the bill and in philosophy, according to the concept. The President's decision that the law was still raw was absolutely fair. It needs to be carefully and seriously refined, or perhaps another bill. That is why it is just as well, and normal, as it would seem at the final stage, at the parliamentary hearings, where we should set the point, and we are, in fact, still lighting the green light on the way for serious refinement. It's a normal process. On the way out, we will be given a quality bill that will be understood by society. This way we'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u69	Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u70	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, you and I are aware that the subject of long-standing pension reform in Ukraine has been one of the most discussed. This document was discussed officially, informally. And the parliamentary hearings that took place in the meeting room of the Supreme Council took some stock of this discussion. These conclusions were eventually reflected in such recommendations for parliamentary hearings. I am absolutely convinced that the decision taken by the President of Ukraine regarding the repeal of this bill is largely the result of what took place during parliamentary hearings. I would like to point out that the committee has worked very closely on this issue, and here are the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the drafting of the bills, and here are the recommendations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in particular the harmonization of the draft Law and the concept of pension reform and the mass of other assignments. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u71	Zarubian Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, I would like to start by thanking the head of the committee of profile, Valery Suškević, for such a principle and, I would say, a permanent position. the sequence position. And I think we should thank our colleagues from the Social Policy Committee, which factions don't apply to. Finally, both the parliamentary hearings and the Parliament themselves did their job. Because we often talk about the mission of representation, the mission of the political parliament. And you know, where Parliament has, not the kind of history we have, but the hundred-year-old, it always does a more important and useful function for society: it's a filter. A filter on the way of various suggestions. Those proposals that do not find support not only in society, but also in an expert environment, Parliament should leave this filter behind. They have to go through things that are effective, and they want to do it or not, but they have to do it. So I think we did a good job, and the parliamentary hearings were appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u73	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u74	In this case, it seems to me that the vote will hardly be unanimous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u75	Chaplain, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, you know, the parliamentary hearings and the social debate in general, we are confident that this will lead to us being able to watch or see the pension reform in Ukraine as a system. You remember the Syrian bill that was passed to this room. And because of the broad discussion, by listening to the position not only of deputies, but also of experts, of experts, of communities, we went to a completely different view of the future pension system of two-blood insurance or insurance and so on. The parliamentary group will certainly support and approve parliamentary hearing recommendations on the status of pension reform, but we would like to make a brief observation: we all need to see in the pension reform system, we need to see the future product that we want to create, not protect the status quo of specific ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u77	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, those who have been with you in the parliamentary hearings or who have had the opportunity to observe them through electronic media, I think they will agree with me that, in fact, the committee has taken a rather conscientious approach to making recommendations and has practically taken into account all the right comments that have been made there. Those who have become acquainted with the draft decree see that it is, in fact, sufficient and sufficient and expansive, on the one hand, and on the other hand, objectively gives a characteristic of what is done, what is not done, what problems and recommendations to the various branches of authority that need to be done. I think we have good reason to vote in favour of the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on the issue of "Standing for Pension Reform and Ways of Improving It." [[8205]] Please be supportive. [[17:17:53]] For-300 It's been decided. We are considering the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The state and prospects of hydrocarbon production in Ukraine and the introduction of a State monopoly on this activity". [[Registration number 8221]] He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Kunchenko Aleksy Petrovich. There is a suggestion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:18:37]] For 209 Supported. Please, Alexi Petrovich. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u78	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable listeners in Ukraine! In accordance with paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 1 July 2010 on Parliamentary hearings on the status and prospects of hydrocarbon production in Ukraine, and the introduction of a State monopoly on these activities. [[No. 2386]] On 12 January this year, more than 400 people attended the hearings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Among them are Ukrainian National Deputies, Ministry of Energy, Coal Industry, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, NAC “Neftegaz Ukraine”, NAC “NadraUkrainina”, Ukrnafta OO, other enterprises and industry organizations, as well as leading oil and gas industry experts and researchers. According to participants, these parliamentary hearings have reached their goal, a wide range of challenges related to the state and prospects of hydrocarbon production in Ukraine and the introduction of a State monopoly on these activities. As a result of the hearings, relevant recommendations were drawn up in the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fuel and energy complex, nuclear policy, nuclear safety and environmental policies for the management and management of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. All of these recommendations are attached to the ruling under consideration today and are addressed to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. At the meeting of the Committee on Fuel, Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Safety, the recommendations were reviewed and endorsed. Please support the draft regulation on the recommendations of parliamentary hearings on the status and prospects of hydrocarbon production in Ukraine and introduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u79	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u80	and accept as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u81	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we vote? I am voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The state and prospects of hydrocarbon production in Ukraine and the introduction of a State monopoly on this activity." [[Registration number 8221]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:21:38]] For 197 Although there is a question, there is a question. I'm going to read the title again, "About the state and prospects of hydrocarbon production in Ukraine and the introduction of a state monopoly on this activity." And the decree states that there can be no State monopoly on this activity. There's a proposal for a draft decision to be amended. Please vote. [[17:22:22]] For 215 Garbage, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Adam Ivanovich, you know that this question is very important for Ukraine, very important, it applies to articles 13 and 14 of the Constitution. And it couldn't be considered as a reduced procedure, I think. Because there are colleagues who have been absent but have the right to speak on this matter. And that might add votes to a decision. It's not that way. This question cannot be put off. Because there's going to be a waste of national or national wealth on top. And that's to put it in order, order is to say basic. And if we don't come back now, we're going to leave Ukraine in an uncertain state, and we're going to be able to rob it. I ask you to go back to the question and at least correct, and I call on my colleague to re-read it. And let's look at it on the rereading of the first reading, not the abbreviated procedure, but the complete procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u83	Thank you. I'm 100 percent solid, which is a very important question. And in terms of what we said was a reduced procedure, we're talking about the results of the parliamentary hearings, which are almost four hours, so it's not a simplified procedure, it's not a shortened procedure. Yes, Goodima, please and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u84	Respectful colleagues are clearly a strong contradiction within the majority. The Communist faction that initiated those hearings naturally refuses to vote because it wants monopolies. And a party of regions that want to privatize the Black Sea shelf naturally wants that monopoly to be gone. And because of this faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko agrees that Parliament is only but that it has voted to send those recommendations to nowhere and not to continue to deal with these unnecessary discussions. Today, when there's no gas, today when these oil prices are set up, it's to make us all smile. So I suggest you don't go back to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u85	Yes, you began to criticize correctly, but you also ended up doing nothing. Yes, please, Sergey Gordienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u86	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian company, Poltavščina. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine states: "The earth, naphrodah and atmospheric air is the property of the Ukrainian people." As we watch our national nadars rob, we cannot say that we own the people and the state, they are looted by clans and individuals. Parliamentary hearings were only organized because of the savage destruction by the state of the huge company Poltavanaftegazgeology, which placed both licenses and genealogy in private hands. Tell me, how many drills in Poltavska, who owns them, how much do they extract, at what price do they realize? In this form of parliamentary hearing recommendations, not only do they not strengthen the role of the State but they lead even more to the plundering of our nadr. You can't vote for that!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u87	Who's to go back to the vote on draft regulation 8221, please make up your mind. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is the first time yet. [[17:26:32]] For 222 We're not back. It's a non-adopted decision. The question is the draft Recommendation on Parliamentary Hearings "Legislative Security and Real Status of Respect for the Rights of the Child in Ukraine". [[Registration number 8097]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:27:05]] For 216 Supported. Head of the Committee on Family and Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Kostenko Pavel Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u88	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Ukrainian National Deputies, held parliamentary hearings on 22 December 2010 on "Legislative Security and Real Status of Respect for the Rights of the Child in Ukraine". The proposed parliamentary hearing recommendations take into account and systematized proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the central and local executive authorities and local self-government bodies, representatives of the Ukrainian public organizations, who were given parliamentary hearings. The relevance of the issues raised at the parliamentary hearings and recommendations that we are proposing today to approve by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling is confirmed by their positive assessment, as expressed by the representatives of the UN Committee on Child Rights at the round table to discuss the recommendations of the UN Committee based on the report of the Government of Ukraine on the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. This meeting took place last Wednesday. And our guests from the UN Committee and UNICEF noted that the draft hearing recommendations in the Supreme Council of Ukraine were designed to follow the recommendations of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child. The Committee on Family and Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Legal Security and Real Status of Respect for the Rights of the Child in Ukraine" to be adopted mainly and generally. Please support the committee's decision, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u89	Thank you, Paul Ivanovich. Vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation "Legislative Security and Real Status of Respect for the Rights of the Child in Ukraine" (Registration No. 8097). () [[B in m in s a l in]] Take down the vote. Bondarenko, please. Microphone, Olena Bondarenko, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, any hearing is only a matter of letting go of a couple if they do not have solid recommendations. I have made suggestions for recommendations, two of which, in my opinion, are essential. But unfortunately, the vast majority in the profile committee rejected my suggestions. So I ask, as the author of the recommendations, to put such a proposal to the vote. In section: The Supreme Council of Ukraine to deal with the establishment of the Institute of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Rights of the Child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u91	I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation Regulation "Legislative Security and Real Status of Respect for the Rights of the Child in Ukraine." [[Registration number 8097]] Please vote. [[17:30:30]] For 306 Copy that. There was a proposal that has not been made once before, that is, it is not new, as they say, to deal with the establishment of another Authorized Child. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:31:01]] For-59 The offer is not supported. I'm voting on the adoption of the Order by number.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u92	Was she on the committee? Your offer, Yuri Anatolyovich? It wasn't. So we don't vote. Sorry, Yuri Anatolyovich, she wasn't on the committee. Bondarenko was serving, not counting, so we set up a session hall. We vote in general on the recommendation of Parliamentary hearings, Decree 8097, "Legislative security and the real state of respect for the rights of the child in Ukraine." Please be supportive. [[17:31:53]] For 287 Thank you, the decree is in place. The issue is being addressed: the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Health and Recreation of Children and Youth, the Committee's Draft. [[Registration number 8144]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:32:23]] For 212 Supported. Please. Paul Ivanovich Kostenko, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u93	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In line with the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of October 6, 2010, parliamentary hearings were held on 9 February of the current year on the health and rest of children and young people. More than 500 attended the hearings, including the national deputies of Ukraine, government officials, ministries, the Attorney General’s Office, local executives and local authorities, trade unions, health facilities. All the participants in the hearings came to the only conclusion that the organization of quality, full - time healing and recreation of children and young students is one of the strategic tasks of the Ukrainian State. This is particularly important when in recent years there has been a tendency to worsen the health of children in Ukraine when 80 percent of school graduates have chronic diseases. At present, hearings have been highlighted, and the development of children’s health facilities is being updated. There is a negative trend towards reducing the number of stationary children's facilities and recreation and improper use of them, and there are cases of retraining of them, which create preconditions for alienating the property complexes of children's health facilities with the removal of the land on which they are located. The unsatisfying state of the material and technical base of these health facilities leads to the fact that most of them do not meet the current requirements and are unable to provide quality health services to the child, leading to an end to the exploitation of objects. According to participants, these parliamentary hearings have reached their goal, and a wide range of problems related to the recovery and rest of children and young people have been discussed in a comprehensive and thorough manner. A significant number of suggestions have been made to Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations. The vast majority of the proposals made by participants are taken into account in the work of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations, where specific programmes, and measures are needed to address a number of key issues for improvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u94	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u95	and the young. The committee proposes to adopt a revised draft regulation on the above-mentioned Recommendations on the basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u96	Thank you. Shall we vote? I am voting on the proposal for a decision to recommend parliamentary hearings on the health and rest of children and young people. [[Registration number 8144]] Please vote. [[17:35:20.]] For-89 Not supported. There's an offer to send a committee to work on it. Please vote. [[17:35:41]] For 279 A decision has been made. The issue is being addressed, on the recommendation of Parliamentary hearings, "Contemporary state and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster". [[Registration number 8335]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:36:14]] For 219 Supported. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, head of the profiling committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u97	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, in line with the Supreme Council’s decree of December 2, 2010, held parliamentary hearings on the subject of modern - day and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on March 16. These hearings were accepted in the work. More than 500 participants participated, including national deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, ministries, government committees, local executives, scientists, and public organizations. More than 30 people took part in the discussion. These parliamentary hearings have reached their goal, and a wide range of problems have been discussed comprehensively and thoroughly in dealing with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the proposed ways to overcome existing obstacles, and a large number of proposals have been made for parliamentary hearings on the subject. The vast majority of the proposals made by participants are taken into account in the handling of parliamentary hearing recommendations, where specific programmes, specific measures, and measures are needed to address a number of key problems of social protection for the affected population, to support and improve the safety of nuclear power plants. The committee discussed the draft parliamentary hearing recommendations: the state of the art and the current tasks of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and suggested that it be accepted as a decision in general. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u98	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we also have reason to be familiar with the draft decree. The recommendations give me reason to believe, and I was happy to conduct these parliamentary hearings, on the one hand, happiness, on the other hand, disaster, because you understand how many conversations there and fair conversations there were, how these programs are being implemented. It's completely taken into account, and I'd like to support it. There is also the law, including respectable colleagues, including respectable colleagues, that is the law you speak of. It is recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers withdraw the bill, including. Yes, I am voting for the adoption of the whole Order 8335 on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "Contemporary Status and Current Challenges to Overcoming the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster." Please vote. As we begin our discussion, we may not vote. [[17:39:15]] For 284 Thank you. The draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union in the field of visa is under consideration. [[Registration number 7504]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:39:51]] For 218. Thank you, it's a decision. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Please, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, head of the European Integration Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u99	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On behalf of the Professional Committee, the Committee on European Integration as one of the sponsors of the bill, I am introducing a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union in the field of visa. Members of the European Integration Committee made this decision. This statement contains an assessment of the current state of visa relations between Ukraine and the European Union, as well as a number of recommendations to the institutions of the European Union, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers on the first steps towards ensuring the equal rights of citizens of Ukraine and citizens of the EU to freedom of movement and the free development of interpersonal contacts. I want to say that, following the initiative of the Committee on Parliamentary Cooperation in Ukraine, which includes MEPs and the Supreme Council, a joint working group has been set up to make recommendations. These recommendations are made in the form of a joint report to the Committee on Parliamentary Cooperation. Accordingly, the Committee on Parliamentary Cooperation recommended that the European Parliament consider this joint report as well as the Supreme Council. At its meeting on 25 November last year, the European Parliament considered the report of this working group of our joint work group and determined that, in particular, it was among its decisions that free visas to the Schengen area should be made for Ukrainian citizens. In this regard, the Supreme Council should consider this report. And in fact, this draft decree, which contains a statement by the Supreme Council, determines the position of the Supreme Council, as it did on November 25th, the European Parliament did. In this regard, I ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u100	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u101	I ask that you support this draft decree as the Supreme Council's position on visa-free treatment for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u102	Thank you. Yes, have a seat, please. If you would like to discuss it, please sign in. Please, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u103	Please give the floor to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u104	Dear colleagues. Now, Mikola. Dear colleagues, when the recording goes, it's obvious that they were all in favour, and that's why they only write two in favour. Anyone who hasn't been able to sign up will have one minute from each faction. Sobolev passed it on to Tomenka. Please prepare for the Blackbeard.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u105	My fellow Members, I think this is an important document and it needs to be approved in order to clearly identify Parliament's position and there are no different positions of authority, but there was only one position on European integration. Instead, I took the floor to pay attention and perhaps not allow the situation that took place today when we discussed our parliamentary hearings. I conducted these parliamentary hearings on the healing and rest of children and young ones. And here the Minister of Education and all the government officials said that this year we would have the best recovery. Finally, this decree was not adopted. Perhaps the standards for closing the networks of child - care facilities were feared. Because in the Cherka district, the district administration has already given us two sanatoriums to shut down. Or do we fear and want to cancel our recovery at all? What's going on here? We vote, we listen, we gather parliamentary hearings from all over the country, there are 700 people here, ministers here swear to work, and then we don't vote on parliamentary hearings, so we don't have to hold them. So, I'm Adam Ivanovich, let's look at the situation, it's absurd that for two months the committee, everyone was doing district councils, they were doing cities, and in the end, there was no argument against an unvoted very important decision. So I'd like to ask that we don't allow such things to happen, and that's a signal that you understand the authorities in Chercas, the district council deputies stopped what they're shutting down the two sanitariums, and now they're getting a signal, and we didn't make a decision to shut down the sanitarium before they rest. So I think it's absolutely necessary to make a decision where there is a clear record, not allowing the profile, the closure, the retraining of sanitariums, and the Attorney General's Office to monitor it. So this decision, maybe I don't know what to change, put it back on and vote. And we support the document presented by Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u106	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich, but we've already talked about the decision, we're sending it for work, I hope next week will be worked out and adopted. This is about no less serious things. Chernobyl Taras, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! I now have the opportunity to present the position of both our group on the rights of the faction, as Adam Ivanovich suggested to us to be called the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and one and the other structures unanimously supported the draft statement. The thing is that our negotiations with the European Union on visa-free status for Ukrainian citizens today have a somewhat one-sided character, I'd say, even on both sides. The thing is, we weren't given the status in the negotiations, which is called the road map. We were given a plan of action that contained enough unilateral requirements and unilateral commitments. And within these unilateral commitments, the fundamental steps that we have to take are very well reflected in the application. So far they have only been recorded in an international document that has no clear status. These are some of our responsibilities that had to be laid down in one of the internal laws. This statement, which is defined by the Supreme Council as a status provided for in the Constitution, clearly identifies a number of first key actions. On the other hand, the application contains a number of our proposals, a series of our views, clear enough to create certain conditions for the other party, which so far did not want to make any commitments to the European Union. And so this document, as balanced as we are on behalf of both the faction rights group and the committee, we ask you all to support it. Likewise, I would like to report that at a committee meeting, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have clearly supported the same document. There were some minor textual remarks, but they are not of a substantive nature. So I would like to vote, a document that is really necessary for our Ukrainian citizens in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u108	Thank you. Yes, Zarubinsky. From the faction of the regions, may the authorities tell me who will speak? Please, Zarubinsky, one minute. Ivan Vasilovich Popescu. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u109	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Respectable colleagues would certainly be more pleasant and would like the application to be called cooperation between Ukraine and the EU in the visa-free field. Because today, indeed, a colleague has just said, unequal conditions for the granting and non-supply of visas, and everyone knows that very well. But the document, the statement, the text of the statement is realistic, is valid, and in any case it is based on what is and that the parliamentary component should be powerful in the negotiations with the European Union on the acquisition of a truly visa-free regime, is a fact. At any rate, all the countries that have negotiated with the EU on the visa-free regime have tried to act in a consolidated manner within their own country: both executive authorities, and legislative authorities, and where the President is, all together So once again, I would like to say that it is worth supporting the proposed text of the application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u110	Yes, thank you. Popsicle, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Party of the Regions welcomes the initiative of the profile committee to prepare and accept the application and will vote in favour. This statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the one hand, states Ukraine’s willingness to implement a national plan of action for the liberalisation of the European Union’s visa regime for Ukraine. At the same time, the application also provides clear signals to the European Union on the concrete steps Ukraine expects from the European Union and its member states in the process of eliminating the principle of asymmetry in visa relations between Ukraine and the EU. That is, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular, calls on the European Union and its member states to demonstrate political will and to remove the permanent status from the prospect of introducing a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens, including an appropriate position in the future association agreement between Ukraine and the EU and other developments. That's why the Party of Regions will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u112	Thank you. Yeah, from the faction, yeah, who's your faction manager? Martinenko. There's no boss, there's no one to identify, is there? Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u113	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, we offer to support with certainty the draft decision made by Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. And in general, this direction needs to be intensified. Well, first of all, our citizens are Ukrainians who are in line for a visa to the Schengen countries, they should not be humiliated. And this is also the task of the Ukrainian authorities and diplomatic services and liaisons. Because in this regard, complaints continue to come, although they are usually significantly smaller. Secondly, of course, the cost of getting these cars should be zero. And it's largely a question that's outlined in the draft of this statement. And thirdly, I think most importantly, if we have a vector defined by Europe, we're going to get this visa-free regime with the countries of the Schengen area, if we don't go crazy. Or we haven't got a free trade zone to organize, we're already doing the Customs Union with the CIS. We need to be consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u114	Let's say visa-free. Yes, Your Honor, allow the chairman’s right to give the floor to another representative of the Smythyu militia. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u115	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Well, you know, in my opinion, in order for us to always be asked not to walk around with our hands stretched out in the world like this, we have to respect ourselves. We have to have our government officials who responded at the time, unilaterally, open a visa regime, a visa-free regime for many countries, and now we're going and asking for what please, please. It is time to learn that external economic, external political relations are always based on mutually beneficial, parity relationships. Not like we did: we gave up weapons, we opened visas, we opened borders, we allowed migrants to enter, and then we go and ask for funds, or something else. Please learn to work, those responsible for this activity, and stop asking. I have spoken and I am in favour of the introduction of a visa regime for the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u116	That's our way. That's our way. Dear colleagues, I think we're all aware of what this document needs to be accepted. The only thing I'm talking to is Boris Ivanovich, maybe we'll really listen to Zarubinsky, not in the visa, but in the visa-free sphere. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u117	Thank you. I thank my colleague Oleg Zarubinski for his offer, but I don't think he made a formal offer, and he confirms it. First. The second is that we are now working with the European Union on the road to a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens, because our relationship is governed by the Agreement on a simplified procedure for the issuance of visas for Ukrainian citizens. So it's all a visa regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have every reason to vote in favour of Decree 7504 concerning the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union in the field of visa. Please be supportive. [[17:53:38]] For 290 And we were hoping for more. We are discussing the draft Resolution on the Special Report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Human Rights of the State of Respect and Protection of the Rights of the Child in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8105]] Short cut? Please vote. [[17:54:14]] For 215 Supported. Paul Ivanovich Kostenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u119	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! On December 22, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Karpachov presented a special report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: "The State for the Respect and Protection of the Rights of the Child in Ukraine" until the 20th anniversary of the ratification by Ukraine of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The report provides a comprehensive analysis of Ukraine's implementation of the convention provisions, a summary of the monitoring of the Human Rights Commissioner's status of respect for the rights of the child by the authorities, their officials, officials, in particular as a result of the consideration of appeals to the Authorized Children and adults for the benefit of the children. Focused on the need to overcome poverty, to ensure the child’s rights to life and health, to resist cruelty, violence, child abuse, and to prevent child trafficking, and sexual crime. The report pays particular attention to the protection of the rights of children of vulnerable groups, especially refugee children, underage asylum seekers without the support of adults, HIV-infected and AIDS-treated children, as well as children with special needs. According to the report, a number of recommendations have been made regarding measures to be taken by the authorities to ensure the rights of the child in Ukraine in accordance with international standards. In accordance with part four of article 18 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights" according to a special report by the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Yeah, Zarubinski, please, Oleg Alexanderovich. Almost a minute. If you'd bet. From the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, I will not repeat the author of the legislative initiative. I will only say that, in accordance with article 18, part 4, of the Ukrainian Act "On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights", according to a special report from the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Human Rights Committee, the National Minorities and the International Relations Committee, having considered the draft decision of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kostenek Paul Ivanovic, which was put forward by the National Deputy of Ukraine, approved: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a special report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights "Stan to uphold and protect the rights of the child in Ukraine" of 14.02. [[Registration number 8005]] 2011 to be accepted as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u122	Writers insist. Taran, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u123	I have a right, Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u124	And I'm not saying you're wrong, so I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u125	Okay. Thank you very much. So, Victor Taran, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, a special report from the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Commissioner of Ukraine, here it is in my hands: the state of respect for and protection of the rights of the child in Ukraine. It does contain very convincing statistics. I would very much like to get to know her, who hasn't met her yet, this is also about the standard of living of many families, and about the inappropriate conditions for keeping children in boarding schools, about the level of illness among children. And I would like to draw your attention to this issue: Kiev 2010, I emphasize, is 2010 And even after that, you can draw these conclusions by analyzing this report, that's two, the first, that there's no respect for the right of the child to life and the second, and the second, that poverty in Ukraine has unfortunately a child's face. It's a baby. This face is that today 81 percent of families are on the verge of poverty, and 30 percent of this poverty line is already gone. Article 32 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child provides that every child has the right to protection against economic exploitation. I read the report and, well, it's amazing to me, yes, how widely children's work is used. At the same time, 40 percent of children work under inappropriate conditions and each year in agriculture, children are injured, disabled, or killed, today. The reason that young people are forced to work is, unfortunately, the same poverty. Children have the right to education, but they do not have it in a foreign country. And even after Tobacco reduced by 42 percent the number of students to government contracts, children from rural families will never receive higher education. And it's a shame that, by the way, there was no acceptance of the proposal by the deputy, Elena Bondarenko, to introduce a special post. But I propose to support it, and more than that, it's printed after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u126	Thank you. I'm voting on the draft Resolution on the Special Report of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights of the State of Respect and Protection of the Rights of the Child in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8105]] The decision is very short, of three points: Take note, publish, and recommend. Please be supportive. [[17:59:45]] For 282 Copy that. We are considering the draft Decision on the annual report of the Human Rights Council of the United States of America on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8109]] I'm going to propose a reduced procedure and give it to the reporters in one minute. Please be supportive. [[18:00:20]] For 208 Thank you. 208. Please, Edward Pavlovenko. Get ready for Zarubinski. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u127	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Pursuant to article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, on January 14, this year, the Human Rights Commissioner, Nina Ivanovna Karpachov, presented an annual report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. The report presents the results of a systematic monitoring of human rights and freedoms by state authorities and local governments, their officials and officials, a comprehensive analysis of human rights and freedoms violations in 2010, as noted by the references to the Authorized Citizens of Ukraine, foreigners and stateless persons. The attention of the authorities is focused on the need to overcome poverty and increasing social inequality, create quality jobs, ensure decent working conditions, objectively define living minimums and other social standards, and ensure real changes in the pay system. Special attention is paid to such acute problems as increasing the number of arrests, unwarranted keeping a person in custody, and the use of torturers. It is suggested, in particular, to accelerate the creation of a national torture prevention mechanism. The need for strict implementation of decisions by national courts and the European Court of Human Rights is emphasized.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u128	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u129	According to part four of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes a decree every year. Draft Decree 8109 is given to you, please support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u130	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, head of the Committee on Human Rights, the Nazis and the International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! On January 14, this year, the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine presented to Parliament an annual report on the state of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting on 2 March 2011 reviewed the draft decree just submitted by one of the authors, there is a group of authors on the issue of the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine since 15 February 2011 and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it, a decision, as a whole. [[Registration number 8109]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u132	Thank you. Let's vote. I would like to vote on the adoption of the decree on the annual report of the Human Rights Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8109]] Please vote. [[18:03:39]] For 268. I'll take the order. The draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of general educational establishments in rural areas has been discussed since 19 December 2008 in the number of Decree 778-VI. [[Bill 6690 registration number]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[18:04:20]] For 225 Supported. Please, Volinec Evgen Valeriovich, National Deputy of the Company of Ukraine. From the committee to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u133	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In 2008, you and I adopted an important document aimed at not just establishing a moratorium on closing schools in rural areas. In turn, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is urged to take urgent measures to prevent the closure of public educational institutions in rural areas. And to change their funding conditions, to avoid the irresponsible closure of schools in the countryside. This goal is not achieved; the problem of funding the data of educational institutions is not eliminated. The main number of closed schools in the last three years is about 80 percent of those in rural areas. Taking into account the fact that recently under the term "optimization of the budgetary sphere" is referring to the banal and mindless closure of educational institutions. So you can conclude that the entire network of general education is actually being destroyed. Let me give you an example. In the Donetsk region alone, 26 schools are now scheduled to be closed, and the process is already under way, and citizens in rural areas are very concerned about the destruction of the social network. The school in the village of Marinivka, in the Shakhtar region, in the Donetsk region has little filling. But it is designed not to close, but to optimize it by transferring the middle and older classes to another school, about nine miles [9 km] away. In doing so, the very building remains on the balance of the village council and its other use. For example, renting or other means is not planned. Where there is economic merit, when the district education department costs one student a year of $18,000,957. The following year it will increase, as only a school will remain in school. The school bus program hasn't been funded in two years. Everything has been transferred to the shoulders of local councils. In the mining area, three of the three buses were broken. The children's lift is irregular. There are many examples. So problems exist and get deeper. In fact, in 2.5 years of mechanisms that would save the rural education system, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u134	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill, which is why we are enabling the Cabinet of Ministers to address the current shortcomings of the functioning and funding of the general educational institutions*** in rural areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u136	Thank you. From the committee member of the Committee on Science and Education, Vladimir Ivanovich Lichuk Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u137	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by a draft decree amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of general educational institutions in rural areas. [[of December 19, 2008]] [[tabled by the People's Deputy Eugene Wolinz]] As early as December 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted Order 778 on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of general educational institutions in rural areas. The purpose of this legislative act was to prevent the unwarranted closure of public educational institutions in rural areas. During 2009 - 2010, the decision was a deterrent to prevent local authorities from adopting governmental executive powers and local self - government unwarranted and hasty decisions on the issue. At the same time, the committee notes that the adoption of the legislation in question did not solve the problem of the functioning of general educational institutions in rural areas. The overall decline in the number of children has continued to affect the network of general educational institutions, the increase in the number of schools with a small number of pupils. The reduction in the number of pupils naturally led to an increase in the number of general educational institutions with a small number of pupils. Such schools are now more than 3.7 thousand, over 3.6 thousand in rural areas. This, in turn, has led to a deterioration in the quality of educational services provided, and an increase in the cost of maintaining these facilities. Due to the absence of student contingents, the schools continued to shut down. During 2009 alone, the number of general educational institutions decreased by 368, 319 of them in rural areas (87 percent of all schools in the country). There was room and evidence of an unwarranted closure of schools. For example, in the village of Novomikolayevka Novograd-Wallin district of Žitomir district, the local authorities have not stopped the school from operating without the consent of the territorial community, but have in fact closed it down. The bill is intended to continue the moratorium on the closure of general educational institutions in rural areas in 2011, to activate the work of the central executive authorities to address the existing shortcomings of financing public educational institutions in rural areas. Taking into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u138	Finish up, Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u139	the fact that Ukraine continues to face a real threat to the collapse of the public education network and has not yet produced a scientific programme for its organisation, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education recommends a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of educational institutions in rural areas from 19 December 2008 number 778-6.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u140	Thank you. You don't have to count it, everybody knows. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think it's understandable. Some nuances are introduced; questions are quite relevant. I propose to support the decree number 6690 - amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of general educational institutions in rural areas since 19 December 2008. [[No. 778-VI]] Please vote. [[18:10:32]] For-75 The factions. Region Party 4, Fatherland 25, People's Self-Defense 12, Communists 25, Reforms 5, People's Party 1, non-fractional 3. For further consideration, please vote. [[18:11:03]] For-68 Even less. Unfortunately, it's rejected. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, 30 minutes ago or 40 minutes ago, I went on for 15 minutes, and we're going to invest in them. We have a draft Order calling off the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of creditors and consumers of financial services. The authors of the bill Poluniev, Voropeiev, and Arzvitin call back and suggest that the bill number 7351 be withdrawn. Please be supportive. Take down the vote. Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u141	Dear National MPs, I'm from our copyright group. We have indeed prepared a comprehensive bill to protect the rights of consumers and creditors. It's a complex bill that's really going to improve customer-bank monetary relations. We were asked by a group of deputies to remove the mortgage lending rule. We went to a meeting, we deleted that rule, and then after that, we're going to register this bill without that rule. But I would like to point out that, according to the National Bank and the Cabinet of Ministers and our copyright group, if we delete the mortgage lending standard, we'll make the country's mortgage lending worse, actually stop it, I think we'll do a service facility for our Ukrainians. And after we've registered our bill, we're going to have to convince you to get that rule back into the body of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m1.u142	Stanislav, you could have convinced the opposite now. You'd better convince them later, let's take a picture. I propose to support Order 7351 on the recalling of the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of creditors and consumers of financial services. Please vote. [[18:13:43]] For 260 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues, I've saved two minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] The order of the day is now exhausted. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow is the opposition day.
