ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:55]] They registered in the 360 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on September 8, 2011. 29 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 8 laws and 5 regulations were passed, 7 bills were adopted on a basis, 1 bill and 2 draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law was passed in general, taking into account President of Ukraine's proposals, 3 laws were rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u2	Lady, give, give. Dear National Deputies, by law, I inform you that a number of national deputies are being treated, therefore they are not in the session hall: Vladimir Polochalo, Alexander Tkachenko, Vladimir Polachenko, Peter Hassuk, Yuri Miroshnichenko. Please take this into account so that their cards don't work. I don't have a mission because we're on a mission.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u3	Now, one minute. The national deputies are Gerasimük, Hlavati, Bondarenko, Plotnikov, Matvienko, Novikov, and Plush. The last two national deputies are on vacation. Honorable National MPs. Well, please, Samofaloff, what's the point? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, celebrates a great day on Sunday, the Tankmaster's Day. We have a colleague from the Ukrainian People's Deputy General of the Army Kuzmuk Aleksandr Ivanovich, Ukraine. Tanker, he's 40 years old today in the Armed Forces. Let us therefore congratulate him wholeheartedly, and wish him further success in the training of the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u5	Honourable National MPs, two factions -- the "BOUT" faction -- "Fatherland" and the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction demand a recess to hold consultations on agenda issues and to make statements. How about a statement right now? Roman Zabzaluk, please make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u6	The so - called trial of Julia Timoshenko is nearing its conclusion. And today there is no doubt about the complete innocence of Yulia Timoshenko and the absolute absence of any evidence in the criminal case against her. Despite the brutal efforts of the Attorney General's Office and Judge Kiriev, and their clearly biased coordinated actions to deprive Julia Timoshenko of any rights and opportunities to defend, to ignore the defence witnesses, the so-called charge against Julia Timoshenko is absurd. Her actions did not contain any form of crime. And her case has long gone beyond the legal field and is unique in the nature of political justice. Proven by this evidence is testimony from witnesses even from the Attorney General’s Office. In particular, according to NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's accounting records, as a result of the agreements signed during 2009 on gas transport, Ukraine was profited, not damage at all, as the Attorney General's Office is trying to convince. The results of the audit of Ernst & Young World Auditorship Company have shown that Ukraine has not suffered any losses as a result of signing its gas contracts. And even the country experts who controlled the regime today had to admit that no audit of the accounting documents had been carried out, and their signatures were put under pressure in the premises of the General Audit Office. The directives are not based on the signature of Yulia Timoshenko, according to the Henprosecutor’s Office, but only by facsimile. Thus, the result and conclusions are clear: the so-called criminal case against Julia Timoshenko is openly falsified. Yulia Tymoshenko's actions did not contain any form of crime, excess authority, or any other illegal action. The Henprosecutor’s Office and its witnesses have never given any convincing evidence against Julia Timoshenko’s guilt.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u7	And for one minute, there's Michael Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, political repression against opposition is becoming increasingly harsh and presumptuous. Power doesn't matter. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" claims the use of torture against Yuri Lucenka and the threat to his life. We want to draw the attention of the entire civilized world to what is being created in the center of Europe. The former minister of the interior continues to be held in prison despite a whole bunch of serious diseases. Lucenko has spent more than a month starving them to protest illegal imprisonment. His condition deteriorates every day and can lead to fatal consequences, but the authorities are not going to treat him. On the contrary, it deliberately pursues the physical destruction of an unruly opposition. Therefore, the question is whether he will live to be judged, and this judgment will be justifiable, if not in a selling Ukrainian court, before the European Court of Human Rights by a hundred percent. Our faction requires the immediate release of Yuri Lucenka from custody, enabling him to be fully treated in a specialized facility. We also draw attention to the fact that in 1937, Alexander Jaroshenko, the head of the Donetsk Regional Change Front Party, was arrested. So that's the democracy we have, that's the reform we have, and where do we go with you like this? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, let's move on to work. Regarding the latest report, which was made in a speech by Mikola Martinenko, I ask the secretariat to prepare an appeal to the law enforcement authorities to get information on this event, and then I will have the opportunity to inform you, the national MPs, about the reasons for what happened. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are held on Friday from 10 to 11 p.m. Representatives of the deputy factions made an offer during the "hour of questions to the government" to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the arrival of taxes and assemblies in import of imported energy. Deputies: The Party of the Regions, "BUT – Fatherland", "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense", the Communist Party of Ukraine and the parliamentary group "Reforms for the Future", based on part six of article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, were informed in advance by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the questions to be posed during the "hour of questions to the Government". Dear colleagues, answer the questions of Ukrainian national deputies today, Minister of Finance Fedir Alexiyovich Jaroshenko. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is present in full stock except for those who are on mission or are currently engaged in protocol activities. The Prime Minister is now, unfortunately for the Supreme Council, in protocol, the first Deputy Prime Minister in deployment. So it's all kept here. Dear National MPs, answering questions from national deputies today will be Finance Minister Fedir Alexiyovich Jaroshenko. By regulations, honourable colleagues, I remind you that this order of "hours of questions to the Government" is defined: questions to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from the deputy factions and groups are given 30 minutes, that is, written questions; then questions directly from the national deputies of Ukraine, which can be addressed both to the report, i.e. to the Minister of Finance, and to the present members of the Cabinet of Ministers, 30 minutes. Feder Alexiyovich, please. Dear colleagues, I remind you, to form an oral question -- in one minute, the answer to that question -- in two minutes. And I'm asking Fedor Alexiyovich in turn of factions on every question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The faction of the Party of the Regions raised questions. First question: "What is the state of revenue from the excise tax on imported goods in the current year?" Respectable national MPs, the implementation of fiscal and tax reforms have created favourable conditions for economic growth. Since the beginning of the year, all budgetary taxes and congregations have grown significantly compared to the same period last year, and no exception has been made for excise duties on imported goods. In January-August of this year, the state excise tax budget for imported goods accounted for 4 billion 680 million, more than 1 billion 630 million, or 53 percent, in relation to the coming of the year. In the cut of the main underpriced goods, the increase is: 2.1 times for alcoholic beverages, 2.1 times for wine production, 1.7 times for beer, 1.7 times for oil, 1.7 times for transport, 1.7 times for transportation. Second question: "What is the state of implementation of the planned state budget rates for excise duties on imported goods?" As I have already pointed out, from the beginning of the year, the arrivals of all budgetary taxes and congregations have grown significantly compared to the same period in 2010. In January and August of this year, there is a steady trend towards an increase in the pace of overcoming the revenue plan from the excise tax on imported goods to the state budget. During the 8 months of the current year, a 45 - percent change from excise tax on imported goods to the state budget, or more than one billion 440 million over the plan. Many factors have had a positive impact on the implementation of the plan. I've already said that alcoholic liquor goes 1.6 times, winemaking goes 2.3, beer goes 1.7. products - 32.4, vehicles - 1.7 times. Next question. Are there possible risks of non-compliance by the end of the year? Dear National Deputies! Of course, there are risks of inadequacy, or any other fiscal tax. This cannot only be linked to the activities of companies such as Livella and the state of the world economy. However, I would like to point out that the government's efforts are, first of all, to care, care, in the end, to protect our interests and the interests of fellow countrymen with you. In this context, the government has already taken action steps to prevent future activities in Ukraine by companies such as Livella, particularly through the implementation of the Ukrainian Tax Code. So we expect by the end of this year the excise tax on imported goods to reach 7.4 to 7.5 billion dollars, which is more than the planned rate of 27 percent or 1.6 billion dollars. Next question. In April of this year, excise duties on petroleum products were reduced. How did the changes noted affect the income portion of the budget? Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the rapid rise in world oil prices, the government temporarily reduced its excise duty rates on petrol and diesel fuel by 50 euros and 30 euros per tonne respectively. This has helped to avoid a sharp rise in prices for the population and to curb inflation. In April and August of this year, due to the customs clearance of imported petrol and diesel, which was reduced by excise duty rates to the budget, there were indeed not about 1.1 billion dollars, but because of our use of measures and taxes, the customs authorities were working, and they were prejudiced about the volume of additional VAT revenues of imported goods, they accounted for 0.4 billion and thus total loss, possibly at 700 million dollars. The next question is, what are the results of customs control and verification, import operations? Ladies and gentlemen, this year, according to the results of the three customs checks carried out by external economic entities that imported taxpayers into the billions of dollars. In addition, the customs authorities used measures to combat the smuggling of tobacco products during 2011 involved three criminal cases of smuggling and one thousand and 962 cases of current customs violations. Almost forty million cigarettes have been removed. Next questions from the factions of the Yulia Block Timoshenko are "The Fatherland." The first question is: by a decision of the Kharkiv Court of Appeal of 31 May 2010, the application for imports into Ukraine of non-taxable goods on the basis of the Ukrainian Foreign Investment Act was closed because the claimants - the State Tax Office and the State Tax Administration of Ukraine have waived their invitation requirements, or if I have been given green light for the high-income activities of Lavella. Answer: On the basis of the decisions of the public authorities, or the orders of the high-holders, the taxpayers have waived their call for proposals, and the government has in fact allowed the company to import 80 percent of the oil products and the right to pay neither the duty nor the excise duty nor the value added tax in the second half of 2010? Unfortunately, the work of Livella is a unique example in the history of an independent Ukraine. Imperfect legislation leads to decisions made by courts that place the subject in unequal conditions. The government has made great efforts to improve legislation and to prevent the application of similar tax evasion schemes. One of the gains of the current government is the adoption of the Tax Code and the updating of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which severely restricts the use of such schemes. History, independent of Ukraine, knows many examples when, using the lacunae of the laws of the landowners, they avoided the obligation to pay the taxes and the congregations. For example, Livella, in this story, unfortunately, is not the only one. Remember, for example, Bison or Burtex. All the independent governments of Ukraine have faced such phenomena, using appropriate measures, closed tax avoidance schemes within the framework of the law, and new, more sophisticated schemes have emerged in their places. This seemed to be an endless process. Our joint work has ensured the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code, which has allowed us to build a transparent, just tax system in the country, and to destroy transparent tax optimisation schemes. You understand very well that Livella is doing its work on the oil market using the court's ruling. I want to assure you that the appropriate authority of the executive branch has been involved in the prosecution since the adoption of this. Within the framework of the law, he was fully prosecuted, tried for years, and tried on several occasions by various courts. However, I do not want to resort to the procedural inaccuracy of this court, but I can assure you that, for the time being, such schemes are not repeated because of the accepted Tax Code, and this is impossible. Next question. Did the government set up the damage to the state due to the tax-free import of Livella's oil products in 2010? Do you agree with the findings of the Antimonopoly Committee that the State budget has lost 5 billion dollars to this company? The great fellow countrymen, as I said before, in answer to the previous question, import and customs of oil and petroleum products without paying taxes and congregations, make the company on the basis of a court decision. Based on the provisions of article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides that a court’s decision is approved by the name of Ukraine is mandatory for implementation throughout the territory without the right to give. The assessment of the decisions of the court is not lawful to draw conclusions and estimates of the damage suffered by the State in such a campaign. Next question. As early as this year, the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, by completing the Henprosecutor's cassation complaint, issued a decision to withdraw from the Tais oil trader, founded by one of the offshore companies of debt from VAT, to close to 1.5 billion dollars. Tell me, have the court’s decisions been carried out, and are they listed in the State Budget of Ukraine? If not, explain the reasons for such a prolonged delay? Dear National Deputies! Yes, indeed, the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine decided in early 2011 to withdraw a tax from Tais for an added value of about 1.5 billion dollars. In order to reflect the tax liability of the specified amount, it is necessary to determine in court the recognized actions of this company of tax bills that have not been paid off. The U.S. Attorney General's Office appealed to the court, but in April of this year, the Supreme Administrative Court refused to meet such requirements in order to collect debts from Tais and pay the added cost tax to the budget, the Tax Office is now working with the judicial authorities, how and how to make arrangements to collect such debt as you say. Next question. What's the total amount of damage to the state due to the tax evasion of the Livella company? What's the total amount of under-received revenue from the failure to pay Tistra taxes and all related enterprises? Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, imports, oil and petroleum products, which were taxed by Livella and Tais, were made on the basis of court decisions. As already noted, taking into account the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution, there is no basis for legally imposing damage on the State to its activities. Next question. Did Minfine and the government know about the Antimonopoly Committee's intention to close a case against Livella and allow fraudsters to remain unpunished? Because according to the A-95 consulting group, the non-tax-imported portion of Livella’s oil product was already more than 50 percent of the total fuel imported into Ukraine in October 2010. According to Minenergo, this monopoly activity led to an increase in the proportion of imported petroleum products in the Ukraine market from 36 to 45 percent in 2010 and was one of the reasons why only two of the six large oil companies in the country operated. Dear fellow countrymen, please note that the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine is a state body with special status and is carrying out its activities under the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee Act. The Ministry of Finance, in turn, has no right to interfere with the antitrust committee. Next question. How it could have happened that in the process of eliminating Livelle, the State Tax Administration's audit did not detect violations of legislation in the company's actions, and it was in such massive and months of abuse. Why was Livella removed from her tax collection and given the opportunity to avoid liability? Honourable National MPs, as it has been repeatedly pointed out that in carrying out their activities, Livella has had the opportunity, on the basis of a court decision, not to pay taxes and congregations. The decision of the court, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, is binding. As a result, the State Tax Service did not have grounds for declaring the company’s activities illegal, and the attempts of the tax authorities to prevent the company’s liquidation caused violations of the constitutional rights provided for in article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the free administration of property. Next question. Has the Ministry of Finance objected to the decision to eliminate the Livella enterprise, or is the Ministry preparing to press charges against this decision in court? Why? Respectful domination, indeed, has been used to protect public interest in matters of taxation, but the presence of influence in existing legislation has not been sufficient. The adoption of the Tax and Updated Budget Code has allowed for a substantial restriction on the possibility of using tax evasion schemes. Next question. It is known that the legal basis for the exemption of Livella from the payment of compulsory tax payments has been the government's 1992 decision to exempt all companies whose statutory funds have foreign capital, regardless of the amount of such capital. How many of these companies registered between 1992 and 93 are still using this scheme? As has just been noted, the adoption of the Tax Code has made it impossible to use such schemes. The activity of enterprises such as Livella in the period of time questioned met the requirements of current legislation, as confirmed by the existing decisions of the courts which are required to comply with article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Today, the customs administration of oil products into the customs territory of Ukraine without paying any taxes and assemblies, as decided by the judicial authorities, with reference to the Ukrainian Foreign Investment Act, was not carried out by the company. The next question was, what was the position of the Ministry of Finance in the trials that dealt with the issue of exemption from Tyster's taxes, Livella and related enterprises, why did the State Tax Administration finally lose this court case? Do you feel that these judicial decisions are in line with the law? Was the reaction of the prosecutor's office adequate, or did the Ministry of Finance or the authorities of the tax administration refer to the prosecution's authorities to investigate the criminal case? What's the reaction? I would like to point out that according to article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the court’s decision was approved by the name of Ukraine and is binding on its territory. The existence of such a decision does not allow law enforcement authorities to address the issue of attracting officials to the criminal responsibility of these companies. Thus, the Ministry of Finance, as a central authority obliged to act within the framework of the Constitution and the law, has made every contribution to the tax and customs authorities to the protection of state interests in the matter. Next question. The closure of the anti-monopoly case against Livella demonstrated that a long-term government budget could be robbed without liability. What concrete measures and when planning to use Minfin and the government to prevent the creation and damage to the state, for people the activities of the new Livell and Livelloches are now being modified and extended to other groups of goods. Honourable National Deputies, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine is operating under the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee Act, so the Ministry of Finance, I have already said, is not in a position to give a legal assessment of the decision of the committee regarding the non-lethalization of oil products by foreign companies. It should be noted that today, thanks to you, honourable national MPs, the government, together with Parliament, has implemented the necessary legislative framework, the mechanisms for effective and effective avoidance of tax evasion are constantly being improved. The government has been carrying out ongoing work in support of the harmonization of the Tax Code and the Budget Code. Next question from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The rise in fuel prices is one of the main components of price increases in manufacturing and services. Inflation from the 2011 results can far exceed the planned indicators that have been adopted by practically Parliament together with you. All of this will have a negative impact on the socio-economic situation of citizens. What real steps are planned to stabilize fuel prices in the near future? The government, you know, honourable national MPs, are constantly engaged in keeping up with certain inflation standards that the government has proposed during the adoption of the Budget Act. And today all of these measures just give us a reason to go on schedule. When necessary, the government is taking effective measures to ensure a stable, non-deficit resource market for petroleum products, in particular, the first is through product intervention during price peak periods, which prevents a sharp rise in prices for oil products. The other one. Rates of excise duty on petrol and diesel fuel have been reduced. So the timely response of the government to the challenges of the world economy is to ensure that inflation is maintained within the 8.9 percent forecast. The next question is, "Is the government planning to import the import of imported fuel in order to protect the domestic producer? If so, where is the guarantee that the vast majority of oil companies owned by private entities will fulfil their investment commitments? When privatizing, the new owners promised to upgrade their production capacities, but they used their tax preferences all the time without investing in modernization." Ladies and gentlemen, for the time being, zero import duty rates have been set for most fuel-powered goods. This has been done to support the well-being of citizens and to provide an enabling environment for economic development. There is a problem with making investment commitments to manufacturers. The government has taken steps to address this problem: an international trade interlocutor has been established pursuant to the Law on the Application of Special Measures for Imports into Ukraine, and a special investigation has been made into the import of petrol, diesel, oil, fuel, spent gas, bitumen, road oil, and so on. If this investigation results in an increase in imports in such quantities and conditions that would cause serious damage to domestic producers of such products, the interim commission will decide on the application of special measures to import such products. This may be a variety of special - moment measures, and so forth. Next question. The existence of a modern state oil refinery would guarantee Ukraine’s energy security and would allow the state to influence its pricing policy in the field of fuel trade. The government has repeatedly declared the need and the possibility of building a new oil refinery. Are such plans preserved? And what steps have been taken in this direction? Indeed, such plans are and we are working on the matter. And there's a series of steps going on. But the government is currently working on increasing the loading of existing Ukrainian oil refineries. There are now six in Ukraine: Lysican, Kremenchuck, Odessa, Drodobic, Nadwiernian. , Herson and Shebellanic PNZ. To this end, a decision has been taken to approve measures for the gasification of oil sources in Ukraine for the period up to 2015. This will contribute to the development of the oil industry, the formation of a stable oil and oil market. Questions from the Reforms for the Future faction. What measures are being taken by the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, the government, in view of the projected financial and analysts, including the World Bank, a new wave of global financial crisis. The great compatriots, the issue of protecting Ukraine's financial system in the face of negative world trends, are a serious challenge and a challenge to the present, which is under the control of the President of Ukraine, in the government. And as finance minister, I work practically every day to solve all these problems. To date, the government and the National Bank have developed and are now implementing a set of early response measures to the likely development of global crises. This will be the innovation of the 2012 State Budget, which I will soon present to you. And there I'm going to give you enough attention to tell you what we're already doing, what models we're using, so to say, tools to avoid the diffusion of the world crisis, is to minimize all of these visas to the real economy of our country, which will then affect our citizens. The next question is, "Is Minfin's view sufficient for the NBA's gold reserves to avoid the recurrence of the 2008 economic crisis, the depreciation of the national currency and the banking crisis?" Ladies and gentlemen, the government, together with the National Bank, is carrying out a continuous analysis and making constant adjustments to its efforts to stabilize and maintain Ukraine's balance of payments properly. The international reserves as of September 1, this year, amount to $38.2 billion, compared with $32 billion, at the appropriate date of 2010. This is enough to finance future imports over a period of 4.5 months. In order to reduce import volumes, an import reduction programme is being developed, all efforts are concentrated on conservation and efficiency programmes are being concentrated, a set of measures are being implemented to improve the competitiveness of Ukrainian products in world markets, to increase the country's investment attractiveness. This will allow international reserves to be maintained at an adequate level and will ensure that our country’s economy is protected from external shocks. The next question is: "As it became known, the government does not plan to meet the IMF demand for gas price increases in 2012 due to the nearness of parliamentary elections, and therefore Ukraine will not receive the next financial tranche. Will the government be able to maintain the financial stability of the state without new IMF financial flows? Ladies and gentlemen, I've talked to you about the IMF a lot, and I've told you about it many times in 2010. If we think about the beginning of the new government's work in 2010. It's a stagnation of the economy, budget balance, an unfair economic burden on import gas, an absolute imbalance in government. All the sectors of the national economy and all that. Even under such difficult conditions, the government has set up. The president and the government have assigned us to resume cooperation with the IMF, realizing that none of them are. This is one of the components that will balance the sustainable development of our country's economy, because the crisis that was, the first wave, it's not over yet, but the second wave has already begun. Thus, Ukraine has been in strict compliance with its commitments under the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy, which was approved by the International Monetary Fund. And we're working hard to implement previous agreements within the framework of the program. We're practically fulfilling all the conditions. But we have, you know, the world challenges that, when we took the program, there were no world challenges, and in 2010, by the end of 2010, there was a new wave, so to speak, of challenges, so we have, in fact, appropriate, qualified consultations with the International Monetary Fund, and we think that we are doing everything we can to get the IMF programme that was approved. It works for 2.5 years. Now we're halfway there, and we need to take the other way. Both the government, and the Ministry of Finance, and I as a minister -- we are doing absolutely all of these important steps to ensure that this program is implemented in an exemplary manner, and that all commitments from both Ukraine and the International Monetary Fund are implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u11	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like you to sign up for a question to the minister, as well as other members of the government, if you have any such questions. A question mark is being recorded. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Wooden, BUT faction, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u12	Pass the helmet on, please. Pass the helmet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u13	Dmitri Schlemko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u14	Mr. Minister, the three fourths of the questions you have come to refer to the company Livela, which, as you yourself said, has caused damage to some five billion dollars. Ironically, the State Tax Administration. I'm here in May 2010 to drop my court-martialed claims. Thus, it is clear that they have been instructed by government officials to do just that, otherwise they would not have made such a decision. Maybe it's because the head of the company is known, according to information, to this day the national deputy of Ukraine, who is in the fra.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u15	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out to you once again that Livela is one of many, well, there must have been thousands of companies working in our market, and they were not working as a result of what the State Tax Administration was doing there. And you would know that since the creation of the State Administration, it has been the body that has been making and improving legislation so that there will be no such livels and funnels. But legislation that is approved and accepted by our, so to speak, legislative body is imperfect. And the tax authority, it's not given the right to make decisions on its own, we have justice for it, we have courts that judge, and we don't have the right of the tax authority not to execute the decisions of the courts. So speaking today is wrong, even when speaking in the legal field. We can only make such legends that it might be if legislation were to regulate it. And if the law allows it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need to improve our legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u17	Yes, Peter Yushchenko, the faction "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense. Yes, Yuri Gnatkevitch, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Vladimir Filenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u19	Vladimir Filenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Mr. Secretary, it's quite clear to me that in the Livella situation, you've been pretending to be tried, which is how they've been delaying the more time they go up, the more they'll steal. You didn't give a command to the courts, as they are now given in the situation with Julia Timoshenko. So the fact that you're all dealers in this situation is clear to me, and I have no questions for you. But I have a question, I take the opportunity that there is an entire government, to Minister Mohilov. Minister of Interior, 24th was Ukraine's 20th anniversary of independence. The real heroes, the nouns of this day, were the MPs of the first call who voted for this independence. You, without giving up the opposition that fought for this state to celebrate this day in the center of Kiev, covered the whole of Kiev. And on the only street in Volodymyr, you gave us no right to move.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u20	Vladimir Pilipovich, I'm going to answer for Livelli one more time. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be misled. I want to give you this information, if you want the government. Now Azarova didn't want to do this, please tell me why governments since 2005 and which were in 2008-2009 didn't do anything to Libya, but waited for it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, they didn't do anything at all. I'm in charge of the situation, you've asked questions, I'm in charge, I'm in charge of the legislation, let me improve it, and we've perfected it with you, and now there's no leftovers, there's no leftovers and there's no leftovers, and let's not go wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u21	Anatoly Volodymyrovich Mohilov, Minister of Interior, these questions, part of them, were directly related to the Minister of Internal Affairs, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would be very grateful if I were allowed to speak from the rostrum. I'm going to bring the film here and I'm going to show those faces of peaceful people, the face, the face of democracy, and you're going to see who did what. And if someone has to answer for these wrongdoings, that is what will happen. Because, after all, it takes order in the state to have everyone do the laws, respectable! And you'll do them, thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u23	Paul Sulkowski is referring the right to a question to the Pecklusenko College, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u24	I want to thank you for your strong and clear statement. On the subject of your statement. What measures are being taken by the supervisory authorities for those who avoid taxes on imports of goods? That's the first question. Second. I, of course, am most interested in our voters' opinion on how we will end this fiscal year, especially in the field of education, in the field of medicine? The second issue that we are interested in is the prospect of budgeting. Tell me, how do you feel about establishing a working group of Governments and parliament in order to properly formulate the concept of a future budget in which the focus should be on the regions? Regions should have mechanisms for development, desire and opportunity to collect more taxes. Please answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u25	Thank you for the most interesting questions. On the first question, I would like to inform you that all the fiscal authorities, such as the Customs Service, the Tax Service, are very clearly interacting and not taking measures to order and violate criminal matters, to close business and so on, and they are working to protect the legitimate rights and interests of citizens, according to the new tax policy that we have adopted in Parliament with you. So I've been giving you an example of the fact that there are several criminal cases that have already been committed by the customs authorities, there are 1 000 692 offences against customs, and there are also dozens of criminal cases that have been violated by the tax authorities, and there are now follow-up actions. And taxpayers who violate legislation are attracted to various, varying degrees of responsibility for their violations. On the second question. How will a profitable part of the budget be implemented, and how will education, culture, and health care be financed? I want to tell you, honourable national MPs, to make it absolutely clear that today the government is fully automatically funding all expenditures not only for health and education, there and at social, absolutely everyone, it is absolutely true that the State Budget Act is being implemented. Besides, I want you to know that, as a result of the first half of the year, we've made more changes, and we've made further changes to the State Budget Act, where there's increased expenditure, revenue. And today I'm going to tell you that today, in eight months, we're doing the State Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u26	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u27	Percentage.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u28	Valerius Calchenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u30	Andrew Pavlovsky’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u31	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Minister, the 3 billion that caused the loss of Livella and the 2 and a half billion that you saved at the expense of the humane retirement reform. Compare these figures. And the second question. Who exactly in Yanukovich's power "freaked" this firm "Livella"? Why did the tax woman refuse to apply? It's not just that. And to Mr. Mogill's question. Why did the police fail to comply with a court decision that allowed it to go down the streets of Volodymyr? Who gave a criminal order in violation of the court’s decision to block the streets of Volodymyrsk, by which the court’s decision to move toward peaceful demonstrators? This has provoked conflict, such a short - term policy. Why did you fail to comply with the court’s decision, and who in the police will be responsible? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. As to the first question, I want to emphasize once again that these are conditional losses. If it were our legislation, it would have been such, so the requirements for its execution, then perhaps it would have been a loss. For the time being, it is completely unfounded to say that there is some loss. Regarding pension reform, I want you to know in a professional way that there is no loss. Our citizens of Ukraine are taking an extremely serious step in this matter, where they will ensure that pensions are granted and paid and raised. And that's what we're demonstrating last year, both this year and the future. It's about "breathing." The President of our state, the government, has no attitude towards this company today, we have justice, and decisions are taken by the courts. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, calm down because you can't hear the answer. Anatoly Volodymyrovich, there was a question of School, sorry, Pavlovsky, related to the seeming decision of the court allowing for action. Why didn't they let us go? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u34	So, I'm explaining to the distinguished national MP. I would advise you to study the map of Kiev. Thus, according to the decision of the Kyiv State Administration, planned approved activities were carried out in Mihajlovsk Square, Sofia Square and Krestatik. Thus, individual citizens offered to move, move from Shevchenk Park on Vladimir Street, continue to go to Krestatika and to the Presidential Administration. [[She's moving on to the square I called]] Thus, in order for these columns of people not to resort to the mass events that took place there, it was decided to close down Vladimirska Street, because it was not possible to move further, it could lead to fighting and bloodshed. Therefore, it was decided that this street should be fenced, which was warned, note, that the bailiff had warned the rally organizers that the meeting should be limited to a rally in the Shevchenka Park. Individual violent heads began to call, built columns to move, thundering everyone and everything they started to do. That's why the militia intercepted these illegal actions. Note, however, by exercising humanism and by manifesting humanity, I will emphasize once again, and by not taking active action to suppress the crimes to a greater extent. If you, the respected comrades who speak of the country's European choice, have seen how the police work in England, Spain, Germany and so on. They work harder there. We have shown humanism and have been very tolerant of the masses of moving people. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u35	Yes, thank you, Anatoly Volodymyrovich. Please ask me a question, Chechchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u36	Honorable Fedor Aleksevic, this year, through the Government's broad dialogue with society, extensive consultations with business, business and business structures, the Tax Code has been developed and adopted. Where strong incentives have been put in place for the development of the basic industries that are the backbone of our economy. And the Tax Code has contributed to the budget. But political speculations have begun, unwarranted, that the Tax Code is supposed to have balanced the budget. I'm addressing you as a specialist, please tell me how the government's work prior to tax reform has affected the implementation of the government's government budget revenue plan to dispel all these political speculations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u37	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, for asking. I'll give you an example here, honourable national MPs, there was a lot of thought in this room that if the Tax Code was adopted, the state would run out of money in 2011 and it would not be possible to finance all the needs that the state would need. So let me tell you, I'm only going to give you one figure, which is that because of the actions that the President and the government were actually using in 2010, the financial system was stable, and we're holding it now. And thanks to the U.S. Tax Code that was adopted today in eight months, we have plus revenue for last year's corresponding 58 billion at reduced tax rates, reduced control, automatic VAT compensation, we have 16 billion more in return for the value added tax, 26 billion. You'll think about it. And it's all funded in the vending machine, all expenses are increased. To the poet, the Tax Code worked, and I think it will bring even more economic growth to our citizens and the economy of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u38	Oleg Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u39	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. Dear Feder Alexiyovich, I have a few questions. You claim that the cost of health care is automatically financed. This morning, I was informed that, especially in the Talalai district of Chernigiv, doctors had not received a salary in August. Please make sure that people are not only in this area, but everywhere they are in debt on their wages to receive them. Last night, unfortunately, Parliament did not support the decision to deal with the issue of debt on wages. Total wage debt, despite rising budget revenues, in Ukraine is one and a half billion dollars. Millions of people in the country do not get paid on time. And I think it's the Ministry of Finance's job to solve these issues so that people get paid on time. And one more thing about the Tax Code. Perhaps the budget’s income has increased, as shown by the figures you give, but hundreds of thousands of small entrepreneurs have testified to the right to engage in entrepreneurial activities. So the growth of the budget is decided by the people, especially the peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. I'm answering you as Minister of Finance to make sure you understand, Mr. President, that there are no debts in the budget area for today, based on the current 8 months of the current year. If there are any questions about non-payments, perhaps some authorities have not used them, there are hospitals where they haven't given the paperwork to the treasury, but the budget allocations are all on display, and there they are. And as finance minister, I'm taking steps to make sure that they're used. As for the increase in debt on wages, that's the growth that's in business. And the government is taking steps to ensure that the real economy does not have to pay the wages. But you know, the market economy, we can't go to zero, because there are enterprises that are developing, there are businesses that are bankrupt, there's competition in the market, there's, so to speak, businesses that are bankrupt, they're going to go bankrupt, and then they're going to go to work and then they're going to restructure and they're going to pay off all the liabilities that they have, that's relevant. Regarding the Tax Code, I want to tell you that we have a market economy and, in fact, we have some enterprises that are being created, other businesses are being eliminated. These are the laws of the economy that don't depend on Lakota or Jaroshenko, these are absolutely laws that work, the real laws that work, the laws of dialectic. So if we don't talk to you here, it's always going to be with the Soviet authorities, it was in all forms, so to speak, farming. And the Tax Code just stimulates development and gives everyone, absolutely, all kinds of people to do business effectively. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u41	National Deputy Bobylov, Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u42	I'm asking you to pass the word to my colleague Zadirko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u43	Asshole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u44	Thank you. Parliamentary Group Reforms for the Future, People's Authority. Dear Mr. Minister of Finance! Please tell us what will happen to the financial stability of our country, as planned by the government, to the restructuring of the NAC of Naftogaz of Ukraine. In fact, it's a very stressful situation for me, because it's going to lead to, in my opinion, a rise in prices on the part of Russia. This will lead to some opposition both economically and informationally. And I have a question. Ready Ukraine, ready government for such challenges, and will our citizens of Ukraine become hostages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. Dear National Deputies! I think you know perfectly well and you understand. How we worked with you for 20 years in the oil and gas sector. It's a very big, long story. Today, Ukraine has joined a European energy organization, and this is another step to make Ukraine more stable, clear, and for investors to enter our real sector and work. So the measures that are being taken today with regard to Naftogazu are precisely related to managing the most effective work in this sector. In 20 years, it's exactly one of the organizations we've been thinking about Livella with you and we're in an oil and gas complex. You know, I know very well the work of this sector, and I haven't reported once in Parliament, and in government, and I've taken measures, but for today we need to take more radical steps to make Naftogaz a model or the oil and gas sector a model for doing business in our country. So right now the government is working on the mechanisms, we're going to do everything we can to make this happen, so that the oil and gas sector is the source of the revenue formation of the budget and the well-being of our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u46	Cord, National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u47	Victor Corge, faction of the Party of the Regions. Fedor Aleksevic, the country's reform of the President of our country is at a strong pace, administrative services are being ordered, licenses are declining, business is being facilitated. My question is, the Ministry of the Interior has recently provided quite a number of services, including technical inspections of cars and so on. Because of the circumstances I have mentioned, these services have now been recast into other hands. The Ministry of the Interior has therefore lost quite a lot of money. Please indicate whether certain compensators are available and whether funds are available in the next year's budget? Not only about 300,000 policemen are interested in this issue, but it is of interest to all citizens of our Ukraine. Because the poor militia, the unproven militia, is also the insecurity of our citizens, and perhaps even instability in the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u48	Of course, yes, all of this is foreseen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u49	Mikhail Kossov, BUT faction, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u50	At the commission of the faction, please hand over to our political partner, Jacinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u51	Arsenium Jacinyuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u52	Mr. Secretary, four questions. First. You said the government budget deficit in Ukraine is five billion dollars, that's the five billion dollars that Livella stole from the government budget. How are you going to put that money back in the budget? What are the specific families behind this? The other one. You said the budget was over 38 billion. I have a question: why didn't you send half of that money to and from the pension bill, rather than cancel the amendment that I made to that law? Third. You, as the Ministry of Finance, why don't you control the value of Euro-2012? I'm showing you that the most expensive stadium that is more expensive than the Ukrainian stadium built in Kiev is in New York alone -- Madison Square Garden, which is a little more expensive than Ukrainian. And lastly, what's the dollar rate this year and the next?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u53	Thank you. Thank you for asking. It's about Livelli. First of all, we have a government budget deficit of not five billion, but 57 billion. And it doesn't affect the five billion, Livella doesn't affect the budget deficit. The second question is about income. We have revenue, I said, not 39 billion against last year, but we have three billion of us overcoming this year. And we're doing everything, and we're running politics just to raise pensions. Third, about Euro-2012. First, only I came by the minister of finance, I signed a fasting order, and we keep an eye on the operators who are building on Euro, value, and so forth. But it's extremely short-term, and then the Ministry of Finance is doing it. I can show it to you in public. Four. We're going to have a dollar rate this year, and next year, the stable one that's planned, published, and it's not going to have any impact on citizens' income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u54	Danilenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u55	Vladimir Danilenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Feder Alexiovich is honorable, two short questions. First question. Speaking in February at the Supreme Council, we raised questions about the need to renew state budget subsidies to address the housing problem of military and combat personnel in Afghanistan and other conflicts. This question has been raised since 2008, but it has not been reflected in the budget. Will this be a budget issue? And the second question. Are you planning to provide in Ukraine's State Budget for the full and proper implementation of the Law on Social Protection of War Children? Why am I raising that question? Because individual community organizations of the Party of the Regions are preparing external statements, they help people on this issue. Isn't this the first tray we're going to get in the budget? Is this question going to be asked in full? Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again, you know, we have a great deal of legislation that we should do as executives, as the Ministry of Finance. And I'm doing everything I can to do it. But you know, we have the main law, the Constitution, which clearly regulates the financing of all programs funded by the State Budget. The 95th article states that the government budget expenditure is exclusively determined by the State Budget Act. The State Budget Act is developed on the basis of economic macro-indicators, and we are doing everything we can to ensure that existing legislation is implemented as far as possible, by implementing the State Budget Act. Therefore, your suggestions to the military, by housing, and by children of war, the black people, will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u57	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u58	Dear Fedor Alexiyovich, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" has a question for you. According to media reports, a large proportion of Ukraine’s gold reserves, which is about $21 billion, are now held in fairly risky securities by American investment banks. And about $15 million is deposited in correspondence accounts of foreign commercial banks. This raises questions. First. Given the recent global financial crisis, the first, I remind you, is the first, which has already passed, but we are waiting for the second. What anti-crisis decisions have been taken by the Ukrainian government on the way to diversifying the Ukrainian gold reserves portfolio. And the second question. What is the real structure of the gold reserves of Ukraine's reserves, please, at least percentage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u59	You know we have the National Bank as an independent regulator. Now, commenting on the National Bank's activities would be inappropriate for me as a minister of finance. But I want to point out that I feel, I've been working with the government for many years, and I've worked with many heads of the National Bank, and I want to say, we're working extremely constructively with the National Bank now, and we're taking very real steps that we couldn't have done before. For example. The impact of the financial crisis. If there was only a fight before, and the government was fighting with the National Bank, we have action today and a model. I'll present you a model specifically when I present the State Budget for Government Debt Management, which we worked with the National Bank. Now on the gold reserves. I absolutely don't support your opinion and I want to dispel your thoughts. We have gold reserves that are very diversified and well placed in different currencies. We used to have it the way you say it, and now it's all done and we have virtually no threat to what you're talking about. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u60	Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u62	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u63	Dear Fedor Aleksevich! The issue relates to the following year, as different versions, again, are being placed on the Internet in relation to budget parameters. Will you confirm, however, that this budget will indeed be economic growth, which will lay the foundation for positive dynamics and the growth of our economies in the future? And would they budget, as was said, appropriate compensators and shock absorbers in the event of the second wave of the global financial crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. I want to confirm that we have a 2012 budget that is absolutely budgeted, which will no longer be a stable budget, but will be a budget for economic growth and non-invasion of the second wave of the world crisis into the real sector of our economy. This is the main goal that we have the basic paradigm that we're writing into the formula that we're drafting in the 2012 budget. We're going to have a balanced budget deficit, and we're going to have a clear budget deficit. We make 2.5 percent, and we have every reason, and today we're making a budget based on the budget policy that you've adopted in Parliament. And 15 numbers we'll give you to the Supreme Council for its consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, time for questions is up. I thank Minister Fedor Alexiyovich Jaroshenko, members of the Cabinet of Ministers for taking part in the "hour of questions to the government." Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, take 30 minutes on Friday to announce their requests. I'm announcing the parliamentary requests that have come. Greeneweck's Sergey to the President of Ukraine on the need to create an effective system for managing the defence and industrial complex. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[11:13:18]] For 279 Request supported. I'm voting on a motion to refer a request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:13:36]] For 280 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the identification of new facts regarding the return to the community of the village of Novosilka of the Visgrad district of the Kyiv area of the reserve, which, without the consent of the session of the Novosilkow Rural Council, was removed and transferred to private property by the previous management of the High Town District State Administration. [[Bully, Cappley and others. Total 6 deputies]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[11:14:21]] For 240 Request supported. I'm voting on a motion to refer a request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:14:42]] For 231 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Valery Bondik to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the gross violation of the constitutional guarantees of the Ukrainian National Deputy and the failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal. Andrija Škila to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the land conflict between the village of Bukovec, the Upper Region of Ivano-Frankov Region and investors on the lease and privatization of land around the written stone rock. Valeria Bevenza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the use of urgent and effective measures to preserve the Stepanian sugar plant of the Vinnick district of Winnick. Valeria Behwaz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the use of effective and urgent measures to provide State support for the completion of the construction of the surgical corps of the Winnicki district clinic called Pirogova and its medical equipment. Vladislav Zabarski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the rightfulness of the withdrawal of pension indexation and the maintenance of pension amounts from non-working pensioners who exercised the mandate of members of election committees. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a further increase in subscriber's salary for a fixed telephone connection. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the illegal removal by the authorities of the South-West Railway of aids for transportation in respect of the pension categories of citizens by replacing the suburban diesel train at the Chernigów-Gornostivka district with the diesel train of increased comfort. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory work of the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Dmitri Tobacco, in providing schools with textbooks before the beginning of the school year. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian President's Administration, Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the non-admission of juvenile justice in Ukraine. Catherine Vaschuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to activate the removal from the village of Rokosovo Hustovo in the Zakarpatsky region and the disposal of containers with a life-threatening and healthy chemical. Catherine Samuelk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of necessary medical equipment for the Herson district cancer dispenser. Marina Perestenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of the Hadis Rehabilitation Centre in the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Development of the Disability Rehabilitation System. The Royal Natalia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the construction of the Power Clouds Nos. 3 and No. 4 of the Hmělní nuclear power plant and the requirements of Neteshin residents. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reduction in the number of permit procedures for citizens who replace old gas equipment with energy-saving new ones. Alexander Shepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the preservation of the architecture of the national significance of the Zoločov Castle. Alexander Fomin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the inappropriate reaction of the authorities to the systematic delay in paying the employees of the Kharkiv State Agrolysomial Enterprise Harkovoblagrolis. Grenevetsky's Sergey to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the operation of the interstate car pass "Serpneve". Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of sewerage networks of towns such as Caterinopil and Jerka Cherkas region. Sergia Tereshuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of drinking water for residents of the village of Potash Mankowsky region of the Cherkas region. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of debts to carriers of the Chernigiv region for the extended passage of individual categories of citizens. [[Mankovsky, Andros, Komar]] Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the use of response measures to ensure the implementation of the constitutional right to social protection of employees of the Public Shareholders Association, amending the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 12 October 2010"For agreeing to the terms of the contract for the sale of the VAT package with the purpose of bringing it into line with the current Ukrainian legislation." Edouard Prutnik to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Chernigiv District Public Administration on the need to resolve the issue of the provision of a municipal health and prevention facility "Bobrowic Central District Hospital" of the Chernigiv Region with a new endoscopic facility to provide timely medical care to the inhabitants of Bobrovick, Nosovsky and Kozelec areas. Oleg Zarubinsky, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, for the imposition of fines for banks that delay the payment of dividends and other costs to the population. Edward Prutnik to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the State Road Service of Ukraine, the Montenegrin District State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the need for a re-examination of the deputy of the Lower Regional Council of the Chernigiv district of Anatolia Slutsky on the use of effective measures to carry out the current repair of the 6 km-long Ninja Dubolugik road, which has not been repaired for a long time and is in an emergency condition. Oleg Tishchenka to the head of the High Council of Justice for the hearing of a citizen named Volodymyr Apushkin on the facts of a violation of the judge's oath, for an unjust decision by a judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters by Svetlana Stelik. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Head of State Administration for the provision of information on the funds allocated for the repair of the Ukrainian President's residences. Igor Greeniv to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for ignoring the forces of the paradisaic form during the celebration of the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's independence. Eugene Goodyak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the lack of results in the case of a crime committed against a Ukrainian citizen named Marina Polyvany. Valeria Calchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the workers of the Griffon on 26 July 2011 in the premises of the Pecher District Court of Kiev and the limitation of the rights of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine for the Conservation of the Western Soko-Acetic Plant of the Plains Region. Alexander Schepeleva to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine to address the issue of land tenure under the construction of a new power station in Odessa. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine for the refusal of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine to develop a separate project of the National Agricultural Programme for Radio-polluted Areas and their Comprehensive Rehabilitation. Paul Jerbrowsky to the Ukrainian minister of health regarding the necessary measures to enable the child to be rehabilitated from the effects of brain hemorrhage. Groups of National Deputies to the Authorized President of Ukraine from the Rights of the Child, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Young and Sport of Ukraine, the Kyiv City State Administration, the Holy District in Kiev, the State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the parents' appeal to more than 100 children who have been working for a long time in the children's section of the Professional Tennis Academy in the Holy District of Kiev, but are currently deprived of such a possibility. [[Plotnikova, Lithuania, Bondika]] Zinoviya Shkutjak and Yuri Karmazin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine for the improper response to the request of the Ukrainian National Deputy to the officials of the Prosecutor's Office and the State Tax Service of Ukraine for the organization of a review of the gross violation of the constitutional right of property of more than 500 people in the village of Novolexandrovka Odessa Region, the illegal seizure by officials of the Iskra-South Society of property by indicated citizens for the promotion of officials of the internal affairs of the Ananiy region, the avoidance of the payment of taxes by specified persons and other violations, the use of appropriate measures. Victoria Demyanchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, for violations of the laws of law and for the imposition of a burden on the issuing and registration of a State right to property on the land of the inhabitants of Kyiv Tetjani Ilchenko. Eugene Kzarkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the call from the public organization "Do not be silent!" regarding the application of appropriate measures of response to the perpetrators of the crime. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the systematic beating of employees of the City of Ohtyr and District Departments of Internal Affairs of the Suma District of Citizens and Children, the inappropriate response to these facts by the Department of Internal Security of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the Prosecutor's Office of the Suma Region, the psychological pressure of law enforcement personnel on children for the purpose of refusing their testimony and statements aimed at attracting police personnel to responsibility. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration for an immediate solution to the conflict situation that took place between the community of the village of Sofia Borszagivka in the Kyiv region, individual officials and deputies of the village council. Sergei Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, State Commission for the Regulation of the Financial Services Markets of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of the resident of the village of Clearview of the Cherkas region of the Cherkas region of Vladimir Domanski by officials of the private shareholder company AHA Insurance. Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of an examination by the Attorney General of the Ukraine of the illegal actions of officials of the prosecutor's office, the harassment and the unlawful criminal prosecution. Arsenija Yatsenuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the cessation and non-admission of political repression by the political party Front Change. Valerija Suškević to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take action to compensate for the four - time world championship, the five - time record of the world, the European Championship winner, the disability of the first group of Alexander the Order’s material and moral damage caused by the illegal actions of the Black Sea Navy military. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the beating of a 15-year-old child by a deputy of the Ohtyr City Council in connection with the statement she made at the City Council meeting regarding the operation in the city of Ottirka in the Suma area of gaming business and the coverage of its functions by law enforcement officials. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a criminal offence against the leaders of the company Livela, which brought 1.6 million tons of oil products to Ukraine without paying taxes to the State budget of Ukraine, which caused the state to lose nearly three billion dollars. Zoya Shishkina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the appeal of a Ukrainian citizen Nina Burenok on the return of funds for the construction of the garbage processing complex of the city of Chernigova in the territory of the Novobilou Rural Council. Zoya Shishkina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on Natalia Filonenko’s complaint about the improper investigation of criminal cases committed against Mikhail Gygankov, the legality of the court’s decisions, their execution, and other matters. Lilia Grigorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal distribution of 100 hectares of land in the village of Sofiyevka*** Borstagivica, 120 million dollars under the government budget. Oksana Bilozer to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to pay off debts on wages to private-rent employees of the Red Land company of the village of Tristanec, of the area of Yampil, of the Winnitsk Region. Peter Simonenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the unsatisfactory response of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to the request of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Peter Simonenka, and the request of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Eugene Tsarkov. Sergey Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of official investigations and for the involvement of individual prosecutors in the Voloči district of the Hmelnicki district in the responsibility for the facts associated with their abuse of office, unlawful conduct and possible corruption in the address of the citizen of Hope Goodima. Jurya Litvina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal, corrupt actions of officials of the municipal company "Rital Service" of the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Sergey Chrapova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens, namely, the obstacle to the free movement of representatives from the Dnipropetrov Regional Organisation of the Communist Party of Ukraine in Ukraine. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the examination of the unlawful response by officials of the public prosecutor of the Kharkiv Region to the request of the Ukrainian People's Deputy for the cessation and removal of violations of the law by officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the use of measures to stop the unlawful acts of the persons concerned, aimed at obstructing the legitimate activities of the Scientific Union of Sustra, the Scientific Producer of Susorya and Ornatus 1 and contributing to their raiding, the use of measures to bring the guilty to justice and to prevent the disorganization of the said associations. Lilia Grigorovitch and Vladimir Karpuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine to verify the legality of the allocation of public budget between the regions of Ukraine for the renovation and preparation of schools for the new school year. Valerija Baranov to the Director General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine on the purpose of preserving existing railway infrastructure in Melitopolis, Zaporozhye region. Mikoli Kulczynski to the State Architectural Control Inspectorate in Kiev on the provision of certified copies of the permits, according to which the private firm Interbud Building Company - the Sub-Organization of Poznakitloboud, was able to repair the building of the Pecher district of Kyiv during the 2010-2011 period. Vassila Amazing to the head of the Johno-Frankow District Public Administration for ensuring unhindered access to places of general use. Peter Simonnka to the Odessa City Head for an unsatisfactory response to the request of the Ukrainian People's Deputy to ensure the realization of the rights of the Odessa residents to quality housing and utility services. Thus, honourable members of the people, 81 MPs have been asked, including 2 of them, as decided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are sent to the President of Ukraine. Valery Bondick, what do you have? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u66	Dear Presidium, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I am expressing my concern with the Justice Committee about the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day bill number 9127 is "The State's Guarantees for the Enforcement of Decisions".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u67	Honourable National MPs, the draft Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, the second reading, the head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, is being announced. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The thing is, not all the materials are collected under this bill. Therefore, I ask that the following plenary week, where it will be considered in accordance with the Rules and applicable legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, I have to say that the committee has not prepared for consideration in the second reading of this bill, and the Rules have nothing to do with this. On July 5, a bill was passed. So I would like to request that it be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration on the following Tuesday. We do not fulfill the obligations that are set before Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please. Because there is no table, there is no conclusion of the legal system. There's going to be a table -- there's going to be conclusions from the legal department. What should they do with them? Let's not be on the Apparatus, thanks to the apparatus, yet the Supreme Council keeps a little face-to-face. We're putting it off for the next Tuesday. I would ask the committee, in accordance with the Chief Legal Authority, to work on this bill for the second reading. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. It's a new edition. Registration number 8570. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the Committee for a second reading of a table of a new edition of the Ukrainian Law "Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship", introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Number 8570]] I want to point out that these are not some minor changes to existing legislation, to the law in force, this is really a new law. Dear colleagues, as a whole, 41 amendments and proposals for such Ukrainian national deputies have been tabled before the bill. 25 amendments by colleague Carmazin, 5 of them counted, 20 rejected. The national deputy of Ukraine, Petovka, made 6 amendments, of which 2 are taken into account in full, 3 are taken into account in part, and one is taken into account in editorial terms, and practically everything is taken into account. And the People's Deputy Shishkina 10 amendments proposed, five of them counted, five rejected. Thus, esteemed colleagues, of the 41 amendments and proposals made by the people's deputies of Ukraine 12 are included, 25 amendments are rejected, 3 are partially counted, one is considered editorially. I will point out that during the Committee's consideration of the amendments, the amendment was attended by the National MP, Shishkin, as well as by representatives of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that the Minister of Justice and the Committee put forward their position, taking into account the situation that the Chief Legal Directorate has prepared a comment on the draft law, which is on the seven pages. And if there is such agreement, we had to make a decision, send it back to the first reading. Take a close look at and accept that document, which would not have been dedicated to the President of Ukraine. I ask Alexander Lavrinovich to express his point of view on the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u72	Dear Sir, your head! Dear National Deputies! In fact, this law contains several positions that technically have terminological flaws, so we will ask that in a short time it be possible to re-read again by correcting those errors that, unfortunately, do not get caught up in the terminology of different laws in the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u73	Please, Oleg Alexanderovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u74	Our committee has proposed this table, based on what these amendments are, and more specifically the new edition is now necessary, this issue is extremely relevant. But on the other hand, in consultation with the Minister of Justice, in consultation with, by the way, with the Chief Legal Authority, we have come to an early understanding and agreement that, despite the importance of this bill, it is obviously not optimal to accept it today and, literally, because of the small deadline, to make changes immediately. Although I agree with Alexander Volodymyrovich, the version voted in the first reading contains certain faults of terminology and terminology. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it might really be, again, not for a drag, but for a more operational full consideration and full adoption of the whole of this bill, it would be possible to work again, literally, for a week. I think we could be ready for the next plenary week, taking into account what will then not have to be introduced in the form of new legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u75	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin has 50 percent right, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u76	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! I've actually made 20 amendments to this bill. And I don't understand why we, I want to make a conceptual proposal, we enter terms that, let's say, are nowhere in the world and a style that doesn't count. For example, chapter two refers to the rights, freedoms, duties of foreigners and stateless persons. And we write it all down: the right to life, to respect for dignity and honor, to freedom and personal integrity, to the inviolability of housing. What are they? No, it's not. Why do we copy the Constitution? I'm writing to you: To exclude this chapter, please don't increase the legislative field. You don't do that. Because of this, I propose, without any claim to the head of the committee, he is a tolerant and decent man, to send the bill for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we have reached a compromise on this issue and let's make a decision to re-direct the second reading and the next Tuesday, that is. That's 20 of us, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u78	No, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Tuesday we'll finish the 20th and Thursday, Friday we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u79	For the next plenary week, let's postpone consideration of this issue. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal to re-read the draft Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Non-Citizens. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 8570]] Please vote. [[11:39:52]] For 265 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a letter, and accordingly introduced a draft Law (registration number 9127) on State guarantees for the enforcement of judicial decisions, excluding from it a preliminary bill that was not supported by the Supreme Council. A question of discussion, including in connection with pipeline transport. The urgency of this issue is motivated by the question of the mandate of the Ukrainian delegation during the PARJE session in view of the failure to make appropriate decisions that result from Ukraine’s respective obligations. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, dear fellows, don't shout! Dear colleagues, I ask you, we will now discuss this issue and resolve it by adopting it in a democratically open way. To that end, invite the deputies to the session room. Now, one minute, I'm going to ask the Justice Minister, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich, to take a position: why do we need to consider the urgent question of including this issue in the agenda and making a decision if there is the will of the Supreme Council, in the first reading, so that we can look closely at the positions that raise objections. [[From place, from place]] Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u80	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, you are obviously aware that in 2009, the European Court of Human Rights approved a pilot decision "Ivanov v. Ukraine", which obliges the State of Ukraine to bring its legislation into line with the Convention on Human Rights and with the applicable laws of Ukraine, which obliges Ukraine to implement decisions that acquire legal force in Ukraine. Since we have conflicting legislation, which in some parts provides for a moratorium on the enforcement of court decisions, does not provide for a resource for the enforcement of judicial decisions, it is necessary that we adopt such a law as comes out of a European Court of Human Rights decision. We had two years to make that decision. The deadline came on July 15, this year, with the extensions requested by the Ukrainian government. The deadline's over. And the next decisions that have to be made in the state of Ukraine are the imposition of certain sanctions. And one of them, said Vladimir Mikhajlovich, is the suspension of the parliamentary delegation of Ukraine to the Council of Europe. Since the question of how to do this has been discussed for a long time, we have done a little bit here. So I ask that today the decision be made to include this issue in the agenda and its consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, it's obviously not a question of today, so I'm asking you, let's sign up in five minutes to express your point of view. Just a minute. Sign up, five minutes. Dear colleagues, please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u82	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to remind you that this bill had already been introduced before under registration number 7562, but was not included in the agenda at the time, so it was not voted. Well, of course, when it comes to the need to adopt such a legislative act, given what Minister Lavrinovich has just told us, we certainly need to, but what is behind it? Will we not take away the unprotected pensioners themselves and those who have some disabilities or have suffered their rights to life? Because we all know that in Ukraine people have no normal social protection. In view of this, the MP faction will certainly support inclusion in the agenda and will now be selected for support in the first reading with some of the rights that apply to chapter II of this bill. We will vote against this second chapter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u83	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u84	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski. Of course, the problem raised by the minister of justice regarding the execution of decisions by national courts in Ukraine is acute, and the international community is already paying attention to it. Yet I want to draw attention to the very strange structure of the bill. It contains seven articles that are, in effect, aimed at solving problems and ensuring the enforcement of decisions by national courts and then in the Final Regulations to amend some 20 different laws that sharply narrow down the scope of existing rights. On this point, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, if I am not mistaken, has already made six or seven decisions. The Constitution of Ukraine prohibits direct text from adopting laws that narrow down changes and the scope of existing rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u85	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I think we can all stand together here because this is about the international authority of the state, about Ukraine's commitment to international conventions, and in other cases economic sanctions may be involved. So there was no violation of the Rules, the committee was sitting, the bill was already being considered in this room, and all MPs know the reasons for adopting the bill. So I'm asking, my dear fellows, to speak of the international authority of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u87	Wooden, please, from the FACT, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Andrew Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u89	Andrew Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u90	Respectable compatriots! Today we're looking at the law in fact 7562, this is the disgraceful law that deprives the social benefits and benefits of 16 categories of citizens. Listen to me, niggers, fighters, invalids, children of war and eventually militiamen! They're depriving them of the help of the militia. By the way, they were entitled to 50 percent of the payment of utilities, and the disabled were entitled to annual leave once a year at the expense of the state, the black people, and Chernobyl. They're getting rid of it. And this is a direct violation of article 22 of the Constitution, which prohibits the adoption of any legislation, norm, which narrows down rights, primarily the social rights of our citizens. This is an antisocial, anti-national law. It is by no means to be viewed as something to be accepted. Whoever accepts it, well, you know who. And let people watch and understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u91	Yes, distinguished national MPs, one more minute. Oleg Lazko claims that he represents all the other MPs who have not signed up. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u92	Oleg Lazko. Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear fellow citizens, the bill that is currently being discussed in the Chamber, which seeks to extend the parliamentary majority, is aimed at restricting the rights of millions of Ukrainian citizens: the Chernobylites, the children of war, the victims of Nazi repression, the pensioners, the military servicemen and so on, because the Transitional provisions of this Act provide that payments to these categories of citizens will not be made in accordance with the law, but in accordance with the order and size established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So in fact, the Cabinet of Ministers, hand-in-hand, depending on the income or expenditure of the budget, is going to determine what kind of help you're paying. So this is an anti-constitutional law that is limited to the deterioration of the rights of millions of Ukrainian citizens. This law cannot be voted on, or it will cause a social upheaval. Millions of people will go out on the street. The problem of non-compliance with decisions by European courts is, but under this problem, they want to limit rights and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues! All those who speak have absolutely logic in asking the question. At the same time, let us talk about Ukraine’s commitment to a two - year - old era, and we are simply driving the situation into a deaf corner. We need to be simpler. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, dear fellows! Please, please! We need to see if we can get to the point where we can get to the point where we can make that decision, see what we can do in this law. Because no matter how much we talk, we don't. There was a problem in the previous law of pipeline transport, which caused sharp objections, was deleted. And we'll keep looking. Let's make this a practical plane of dialogue, and then we'll propose that every article, every law, be given us a calculation of what is and what might be. It'll be a normal approach, I think. That's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg of you, fellows of honor! Dear colleagues, please! Please. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the bill. [[Registration number 9127]] Please vote. [[11:50:46]] For 251 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 190, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 13, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, "The People's Party – 20, non-fractional. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please! Please! Exclusion protocol received. At the same time, a group of deputies approached the regulatory committee and personally objected to me. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask that he issue a ruling committee, which is the first. And the others. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Second, get yourself into a faction, I can't figure you out in factions yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, offer: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:51:59]] For 244 I'm making a proposal to the committee. Dear colleagues, please. Rapporteur: Minister of Justice of Ukraine Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinović. Correspondent is Deputy Chief Justice Committee Valerius Anatolyevich Bondik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u95	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. I said a few words about the need to consider this bill today. Now I want to say a few words right now, an answer to the basic arguments raised by opponents of the approval of this project. During the 20 years that the Ukrainian State existed in this room, there was a mass of laws that did not provide for money or property, which led to the fact that today, virtually every category of benefits provided for the citizens of Ukraine was not possible and had never been implemented. Some benefits have never been realized in our country. We must be honest authorities and say that we will comply with all the laws that exist in Ukraine within the limits that allow for the state budget and the state resource. Nothing else is going to happen, we're talking about limiting someone, we're strengthening the guarantees that this is going to be done, and that those government officials who approve the decisions that lead to the loss of their citizens are going to regress themselves out of their pockets, and then they're going to make it up to them. And that should be said, this is clearly stated in this law. [[Applause]] What is involved in changing other laws must be done. There can be no competition between different standards so that nothing can be done again, and once again there is a situation that benefits are foreseen on the bill of benefits and that they do not exist in life, because there is no cost of such in the State Budget. In fact, in this same room, when accepted, either 5 percent or 10 percent of what needs to be paid. Why lie to your citizens? Another part relates to the fact that since 2001 when the Law on the Moratorium was first adopted in this room to enforce the decisions of a category of state-owned enterprises, since then these categories have increased severalfold.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u96	Finish up, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u97	a citizen, what kind of business is he guilty of, what kind of property if he doesn't get paid? Thus, this cannot be an obstacle to the execution of a judicial decision, and this is decided by this law. I ask that you demonstrate a conscious approach to the fact that Ukraine must be a civilised legal state accountable to its citizens and to the European society to which it has made a commitment by ratifying the human rights convention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u98	Thank you. Correspondent from the committee is Deputy Chief Justice Committee Bondik Valerij Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u99	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Indeed, it is about the accession of Ukraine to the Convention on Human Rights and the protection of human rights by the courts since the 1950s, and in 97 it was ratified by the Supreme Council. Honorary colleagues, the bill proposes the introduction of a mechanism whereby the enforcement of court decisions on the collection of funds from public authorities, enterprises, institutions or organisations, debtors of a legal person, whose enforcement is prohibited, is made at the expense of the State budget if it is not possible to execute a court decision, at the expense of the debtor. The purpose of this project is to resolve the issue of the repayment of existing debt, which is confirmed by national courts of judicial decisions, which are the responsibility of the State. This debt will be repaid in the order and time limits set by the Cabinet of Ministers, and this is indicated in this project, taking into account the results of the analysis of available financial resources in the State. The committee's decision is to support the bill as a whole. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u100	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, Yuri Klukkowski. From where?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u101	I'll be right back, thank you. You know, I was listening to the report, and I got the impression that the minister of finance was speaking, not the minister of justice, justice, justice. Honorable colleagues who have a bearing on the execution of the court’s decision are the sums of the benefits that Ukrainian citizens have. What does that have to do with anything, say it's those low-security people whose rights you want to limit in an unconstitutional way by this law. So it seems to me that someone who wants to worry about a civilized rule of law must first abide by the Constitution, follow the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and then care about how to change those laws that are actually empty today. Let's think about these mechanisms together, but not in the barbaric way that is proposed. I ask you to give me, Adam Ivanovich, and I ask you to give me a moment to take advantage of my colleague Vyezovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u102	Excuse me, Yuri Bogdanovich, continue, you can't pass. You can pass it on if you don't. The first word is about what I'm asking you to say. Please continue, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u103	Then, with your permission, I will continue. I would like to understand why to narrow down the rights of cultural workers, pharmacists, doctors, and health workers working in rural areas. We want to make sure that none of the cultural workers, the pharmaceutical workers, are left behind in the countryside, all of them from the medical community. Instead of creating a state condition for this, it's not about those workers, it's about the villagers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u104	Done? Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u105	This is just a small example of how the talk of the rule of law is followed by the plundering of the state. Instead of allowing billionaires to spend money on these needs, as the Germans and the French have done, we are doing this kind of robbing the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, there is an offer to complete this question, and then we will discuss how we will work, whether on a break or without a break. We'll work under the Rules, just 12 hours, I ask that we finish the question. Please, Sergey Sobolev, the "BOUT" faction is "The Fatherland." Get ready, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u107	The "BUT" faction, the "Fatherland", is drawing the attention of millions of our fellow citizens to what is currently going on in the session room. You will only listen to those categories of citizens: veterans, blackbacks, disabled people, widows of the dead, participants in combat. This list can be continued. It turns out Yanukovich doesn't have any money on them. Azarov doesn't have money on them, gold toilets, sorry, there's money, and there's no money for war veterans. The other one. What is proposed? Today, there has been fraud on the committee: there has been no committee decision and no committee meeting, no opposition has been on the Committee on Legal Policy. Don't lie! We were already meeting on this subject, and the committee's decision was adopted unanimously. Everything about reducing the benefits, rejecting, everything about settling the issues of direct court decisions, to support. So please do not confuse the public equally, for everyone will think that the Committee on Legal Policy is working for the people. Third. In fact, this law doesn't just cancel the benefits, you know that today is 100 billion debt. Where are you going with this debt? You can't cancel it with a back number, you'll have to pay it all back. What is the session room doing today? So our proposal for faction is clear. And we're addressing you, Mr. Martinyuk, if you put this question to a vote, we won't let you vote on this question. It's a violation of the Constitution, it's a violation of any law, you have no right to do it without the Constitutional Court's conclusions. You want to get out of this situation beautifully, go to the Constitutional Court or give us a chance to turn to it, then we will consider it. We are firmly opposed to this issue, and we don't think it's appropriate for Parliament to look for coins when billions go by. oligarchs and everyone else. There can be no such situation in the state. So we ask you, remove this question, do not lead to sin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u108	Please, Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Ukrainian Company has never voted in favour of such decisions, will not support a similar decision today, this is the first. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very surprised when the Minister of Justice, who, along with the Constitutional Court, is to stand on the watch of the Constitution, comes out to this high state hall and invites the deputies to make a decision in violation of the Constitution. Third thing I want to say. Dear colleagues, when we work in the legislature, there must be at least some level of trust between the branches of government. What I mean. In July, changes were made to the state budget. And the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the First Vice Prime Minister assured us that the decisions taken in three categories are the limit of that compromise. Now we see that we have returned to the same law and is proposing to make a decision. That's what I'm trying to say. Besides being the deputy head of the Ukrainian Company, I am the head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. The Ukrainian Veterans Council decided not to support the document. More to the point, on March 30, the Ukrainian Veterans' Council, together with the Kyiv City Veterans' Organization, took care of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers and demanded that the document not be accepted. So once again, this document is completely unconstitutional, it can't be accepted. This is beyond the betrayal of our parents, our grandfathers, our people who are now beyond poverty. So I'm asking everyone and I'm addressing, including the veterans of Ukraine: carefully track down the political forces that voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u110	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u111	Look carefully and do not forget this in future and all subsequent elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, calm down. Yeah, from the factions that didn't register in one minute. Please, Caplienne, then Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u113	The MP's Reforms for the Future. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this bill was introduced earlier under number 7562 and did not receive any support in this room. I would like to address all of us and the citizens of Ukraine, this bill has two chapters. The first chapter approves the mechanism by which the execution of decisions on the collection of funds is directed towards the State budget of Ukraine or at the expense of the debtor, a legal person. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" totally and 100 percent support this thesis. We will vote in favour of chapter I of this bill in the first reading. With regard to chapter II, which deprives citizens of the right to benefits defined by the legislation in force, we are definitely against it and will not vote in second reading in favour of the bill if chapter III is preserved in the same scope. So I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that there was a decision of the Constitutional Court of July 7, 2007, which has already banned the citizens of Ukraine from the benefits they have today. And if we're carrying these benefits, their management, at the expense of the Cabinet of Ministers, I'm sure there'll be this thesis: there's no money, there's no aid.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u114	Chechtev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u115	Respectable colleagues, deceit and populism will not be built by the State. In deception and populism, the State can only be destroyed. And just because there's been fraud here for 20 years, populism has prevailed, we can't get out of the swamp. It's a shame for people in the county to look into their eyes when they say, "Why isn't the law being fulfilled, it's written here." We say, "No money." They say, "Well, if anyone has two clicks in his head in Parliament. Why do you pass laws that are not secured by money? Why are you teasing us?" That is why today we must put an end to this populism and lie. Yeah, tough truth. No one repeals the laws, but funding will take into account the real financial situation and the real resources of the budget. That's all that matters. The deception must be stopped. We're lying to people, we're lying to people. And people say that in the next election, there is nothing to be done by populists under the roof of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u116	Finish up, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u117	The time has come for pragmatists. Populists who destroy parliament do not belong in Parliament. And the people will cast them out of Parliament. People want the truth. This law is now in line with the real situation. That's the first letter in truth. The truth will continue to prevail under the roof of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the rest of the factions don't insist on the performance? No, it's not. That is, all those who had the opportunity to speak under the Rules took advantage of their right. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report that the committee has decided to take this as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u119	That was not the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u120	Yuri Anatolyevich, please microphone. Carmazine, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u121	Respectable. Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, here I want everyone to understand what's going on. A letter from the committee appeared today in the Shahrai way. I am responsible, Yuri Carmazin, that there was no invitation to my cell phone. Mr. Ephraim, figure out what you're doing. You don't invite any of the opposition to the committee's secret meetings. Nowhere in the Rules is there any secret committee meeting, nor is there. The Rules record how many days later, five days later, the agenda is clearly recorded on the committees. There's a committee law. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you will not build on a lie of justice. It will not be easier for the European Court of Human Rights. We were told today by Jaroshenko that they had carried out the Livelli court decision. Why, then, are 2 million decisions of the Chernobyl courts not executed on children of war?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, let's work this out. The thing is. Wait, please. I gave Karmazin my word because he was the committee’s first deputy, and he said that there was no committee meeting. So he had every reason. He called it Ephraim’s name. Please, reply, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I would very much like you all to calm down and answer one simple question. When the Government of Timoshenko and Timoshenko, by its decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, abolished all the benefits, I reiterate that the Cabinet of Ministers had abolished all the benefits in contrast to the Constitutional Court's decision, you were all sitting, silent. When we openly come out with a proposal and say, let us be honest with the people that the benefits that I have never, I stress, have never been paid in the State, we will still take the courage and take the appropriate decision, but we will take the responsibility to continue to set the task and to comply with the laws that exist in our State, you have somehow engaged in pure populism here in the Hall. It's hypocrisy. It's impossible to call it hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u124	Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u125	Adam Ivanovich, I ask that you now apply the precedent created by the Head of the Supreme Council. He refuses to announce the faction’s decision in connection with the fact that there is a complaint to the regulatory committee. Today, representatives of the two committees have announced that the committee’s decision has been falsified. I ask you to consider this as done under the transcript of the High Council plenary meeting to refer to the regulatory committee and defer consideration of this issue to the regulatory committee's conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u126	Honorable colleagues, respected colleagues, are accepted. I ask the regulatory committee to resolve, though. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down. There was a committee, there was a committee, so it was right that there was a committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, calm down, calm down, Vadim. It's okay. If there was a committee meeting, the regulatory committee would confirm what had happened. Dear colleagues, I therefore understand that there is a objection to the decision of the committee on the adoption of the law as a whole. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to take the basis for the first reading of the draft Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments. [[Registration number 9127]] Please vote. [[12:12:43]] For 246 Copy that. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 189, "BUT – Fatherland" did not vote, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 11, the Communists did not vote, "Reforms" – 17, the People's Party – 19, the non-fractional – 10. There was a suggestion that we did not immediately pass the law, that we should shorten the procedure for preparing for second reading. Please vote. [[12:13:30]] For 238. A decision has been made. Dear colleagues, are we going to take a break, let's decide if we're going to take a break or not? [[B in m in s a l i.]] A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 43 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. We are considering a draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Civil Status Act. [[concerning the national registration of birth]] [[Registration number 8544]] If you don't mind, there's a reduced procedure. Please support the offer. [[12:45:44]] For 181 Offer supported. Reported the first deputy minister of justice, Ivan Ivanovna Jemelyanov. The reporter is Tolstenko. Please, Inna Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, there is a draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Act on State Registration of Civil Status Acts and it deals with the registration of a born child born outside a medical institution. To date, the reason for the child’s registration is either help if the child is born in a medical institution, or help provided by an appropriate medical institution, or the court’s decision to establish the birth of a child. At the same time, if you look at statistics, it says that about 900,000 children are born out of health care institutions each year, and this creates a problem for these parents to register their children. The bill suggests that in such cases, when a child is born outside a health facility, a document confirming the birth of a child is issued by a health care facility that reviews the mother and the baby. Or if such an examination has not been carried out after birth, the decision is made in a responsible manner. a medical clinic is set up by a medical advisory commission in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers, which provides appropriate assistance. In other cases, a general procedure remains, and the court’s decision alone determines the birth of a child. I ask, honourable national MPs, to support this project in the first reading, and if there is no objection to it, then in general, even if this was about a settlement for one child born a year and it needed a legislative definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u129	We're done, aren't we? Thank you. The committee reports to the Secretary of the Committee on Legal Policy, Tolstenko Volodymyr Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u130	At its meeting, the Committee on Legal Policy considered a draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Civil Status Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Registration number 8544]] The bill has been drafted by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to improve the regulation of relations related to the conduct of national birth registration. According to the committee, the content of the bill is to be confirmed by a health - care facility for the birth of a child born outside the maternity home. In the Committee’s view, the adoption of the law will ensure the timeliness of the State’s birth registration and parental assistance in connection with the birth of a child, as well as the prevention of fraud, kidnapping, and child trafficking. The Committee on Legal Policy recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also supported the adoption of the bill. And I would also like to add that we've spoken on the committee and there's support from the Ministry of Justice, which, because there's no expert comments, maybe today we're going to adopt this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u131	Yes, thank you. Shall we discuss it? I think we're clear. So, honourable colleagues, if you don't mind, let's help produce not only laws, but I'm looking at Argentina and others, that's it. And we'll support the proposal, I think, really, there's no reference to scientific and expert management, or to the committee that we can accept it as a law as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Amendment Act to amend article 13 of the Ukrainian Civil Status Act. [[concerning the national registration of birth]] [[Registration number 8544]] Please be supportive. [[12:50:14]] For 292 Almost enough, 292. I mean, to the constitutional majority. The law is passed. The question is: the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Land Code. [[on land of agricultural research institutions and educational institutions]] [[Registration number 7531]] The committee proposes a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:50:51]] For 215 Offer supported. Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich, deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, reports and reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party. The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee of February 1st discussed the bill of our colleague Kaletnik to amend the Earth Code. [[on land of agricultural research institutions and educational institutions]] The bill proposes to supplement articles 20, 23, 186-1 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with rules that would establish that the change of purpose, transfer to ownership, transfer to use, including lease, removal of all agricultural land and educational institutions is in agreement with the central executive authority on agricultural policy and food. There are conclusions from the Science and Experimental Authority, they don't deny that the bill should be adopted as a basis for further elaboration. That's why the committee is asking you to accept the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u133	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Is there anyone besides Lutsky who insists? Please sign up. Two for, two for against, and you can't write it down. Please, Karpuk, it's Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u134	Vladimir Karpuk, please give the floor to Roman Tkach.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u135	The word has a new frontist, Roman Tkac.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u136	Roman Tchac. Dear colleagues, we have considered this issue with us on the committee. In principle, we did make a positive decision. But here's the point. This is the next time we're talking about schools. After all, agrarian schools are not always state-owned, and there are communal forms of ownership. And imagine that there's an agrarian college at some point, and it's owned by the state, but then all consents have to go through the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. So in general support of the idea that the Ministry representatives were involved in these committees when they were undergoing changes in the target assignment, alienation of land, but before the second reading, this should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u137	Chechtev's handing over to Lutsky. Please, Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u138	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We've been looking at this bill for the Committee on Education and Science. And the Committee on Education and Science unanimously opposed the adoption of such a bill, because it just regulates the land issue even more for educational institutions. But after the discussion, after the discussion, after the committee meeting, we came to the conclusion that the issue of alienation and giving really needed to be settled can also be used in the use of agricultural land. But the bill clearly states that. Article 23, that “transfer to ownership, transfer to use, including rental”. Imagine, it's every PTU, every technicum, every school, a higher education facility has to go to Kiev, agree not only in the Ministry of Education and Science, where it needs to be done, but still go to the Minagropolitics in order to agree on these issues again. There are higher educational institutions and simply educational institutions that are not linked at all to agricultural activities. So this bill can be adopted in the first reading and for the second reading it has to be taken into account, in article 23, let the "transfer to property" be accepted both in the Minosvets and in the Minagropolitics, but the transfer to use, including in the lease, in paragraph 5, should be removed. Otherwise this bill cannot be voted on at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u139	Every department protects itself, and that's the right thing to do. Gordien Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u140	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, I've come to this rostrum to draw attention to what we've got to rely on, namely, land, these are the lands that are behind the Ministry of Defence, behind the educational institutions. Seeing that the Land Market Act has already been registered and the land of agricultural destination being pushed out for sale, those who have worked, including in agricultural enterprises, such as former councils, technicians, also want to be equalized in rights and land. But today the Ministry of Agrarian Politics is holding this process back. I'm giving you an example, it's the Beresvoluntary Pirate District of Poltava. There is a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers to decommission these lands. But it's not the first year that the Ministry of Agriculture has been doing everything possible and impossible for people not to get land rations and conditions: if you pass it on to specific structures, we're going to decompose you if you don't, there will be no such disintegration. Tomorrow there will be a luzenk festival in Berezow, and people will call and say that they are blocking and covering the roads of communication to draw attention to this disgraceful phenomenon and to the actions of officials of agrarian politics. I would ask that a specific commission be given to expedite consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u141	Gnutkevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u142	I see Michael Tomenko on this subject, please give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u143	Yes, please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, there is actually a problem and the author of the bill, Gregory Kaletnik, is right to draw attention to this problem. But it's very different and different in every particular case. So, for example, there's a category of VUZs where working with local self-government bodies, the land was dedicated, and now there's no place for students to go and go to the university, like at my home Kyiv University of Shevchenk. There's a situation where, contrary to the position of the local self-government body, the UCC with the central executive branch divided the land and handed over where students and teachers were suffering again and again. You know, we have a young log in Kiev or, I don't know what to call it, it's an emigration team of Chernevski because they're all gone, so it's been pollinating the ground around all the preschools and schools to take away, and there's no place to leave school anymore, because it's all gone. True, I was surprised that the Prime Minister said we could run Kiev from Tel Aviv. Because he tells me Chernewsky doesn't think Tel Aviv is running the Ukrainian capital, well, that's by the way. So I think there's a double sieve to be made here. That is to say, according to the local government and the central executive authority. Then we fear that the city community agrees, for example, to give up this land, and the U.S.U.S. applies. The city community agrees, and the ministry finally agrees. Because I think I'm looking at cities like Kiev, district cities. If we give away parks and a small portion of the land near U.S. and near schools today, it will be a total disaster. That's why it's better to be afraid here. And if it goes to the first reading, to the second reading, "by submission of local self-government and by consent of the central executive body."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u145	Thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Earth Code. [[on land of agricultural research institutions and educational institutions]] [[Registration number 7531]] Please vote. Suggestions will be taken into account in the second. [[13:00:28]] For 259. The decision is supported. The Law was adopted in the first reading. And, dear fellows, let's consider another law if there's no objection. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code (for adoption) (Registration No. 3657). [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. It's got to be different. [[13:01:05]] For a hundred and Supported. Reported by the National MP of Ukraine, Pavlenko. From the Lucian Committee to prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u146	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, the proposed draft law aimed at eliminating artificial obstacles to the adoption of children. In 2008, I recall that article 211 of the Ukrainian Family Code introduced changes and a requirement for adoptive parents who should not exceed the age of a child for more than 45 years. There was no age difference between adoptive parents and a child in the codex. In particular, this age difference is an obstacle to the adoption of brothers and sisters if the adoptive age exceeds that of one child for 45 years. The same is true of adoption in a family where one of the spouses has the right to adopt at his own age, and the other is deprived of that right because of a prescribed age. Such age barriers deprive a child of the right to a full - time family upbringing. It was absurd for children to adopt women as single mothers because their husbands were older than their children for more than 45 years. In Ukraine the adoption of a child is carried out by a court of law. The court’s decision takes into account the best interests of the child. In this regard, in each particular case, it takes into account all circumstances that are of particular importance, health, material status, and others. Individuals in their 30 ’ s and 40 ’ s may not meet the necessary criteria. It should also be noted that there is no limit to the maximum age difference between the adoptive parent and the adopted child in the European Convention for the Adoption of Children, which Ukraine ratified on February 15, 2011. Therefore, we consider it necessary to amend the Family Code: Remove the second sentence of part two of article 211. I would like the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the legislative initiative, to vote on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u147	Correspondingly, the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family and Youth Policy, sports at tourism, Katerina Lukyanova, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u148	Honorable national MPs, a bill passed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Pavlenko, Cibenko, and Kruk, are proposing to remove a rule that stipulates that the age difference between the adoptive parent and the child cannot be greater than 45 years. This difference in age between the adoptive father and the child was introduced in 2008. In spite of President Yushchenko's return of the law with his proposals for his re-examination by the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council overcame the President's veto and passed Law 387 votes. Today’s bill was discussed three times at a committee meeting. On March 18, 2009, it was decided to recommend to the Ukrainian National Deputies, the drafters of the bill, that a bill should be drafted taking into account the findings of the Main Scientific and Scientific Administration and the comments made at the committee meeting. By the way, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority does not support a legislative proposal that repeals the established maximum age criterion for those who wish to adopt a child, and believes that the bill should be sent for work. The Committee on Legal Policy did not determine the bill. National deputies and members of the committee suggested that the bill should provide for a standard whereby age restrictions may not be applied in certain cases, especially when adoption is carried out by a mother’s husband, the father’s wife, the child’s father, the child’s internal adoption, the child’s parents, and the adoption of a child who is a brother, the sister of an earlier adopted child. It is also suggested that adoption should take into account the age of the younger one of the adoptive couple. However, a complete lifting of the age limit can lead to a deterioration in the position of children in adoption, as well as a reduction in the likelihood of adoption of children over five years of age. The drafters promised to finalize the bill, so the decision of the committee was not sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On July 1st of this year, Ukrainian national deputy Pavlenko Eduardo Ivanovich appealed to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include a bill in the agenda of the daily plenary meeting on July 5-8, because it was as if the committee could not take this decision on him, this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u149	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u150	Therefore, on July 6, the Committee reviewed the draft law and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of a first reading review to return the draft law to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. For help, in 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine authorized the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to provide a report on the conformity of the Ukrainian Constitution with the provisions of the Family Code, according to which the age difference between the adopter and the child cannot be greater than 45 years. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has recognized that it meets the basic law of article 211 of the Ukrainian Family Code, according to which the maximum age difference between orphans and adoptive parents should not exceed 45 years. The legal requirement for the age difference between an adoptive parent and a child actually applies to the possibility of adopting a child of a certain age and therefore does not violate the principle of equality of citizens before the law, as enshrined in article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The person who reached the age of 45.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u151	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, please, shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Yavorowski. Behind him is Greenewecko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u152	I ask you to give the floor to the Vice-President of the Supreme Council, the representative of the House of July Timoshenko, Mikoli Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! In fact, it's a very difficult and difficult situation. I am one of the authors of the amendment of our Family Code and my colleagues -- then Ravil Safiulin, who was a deputy, the current deputies: Victor Korge and others -- we came out of what we had real practical work on how the adoption was going in Ukraine. I remind you that we then overcame President Viktor Yushchenk's veto and forbade the adoption of non-marriage aliens. Because we had real practical information that very specific categories of people adopt our children. Why did the 45-year standard come up? Because we came out of real Ukrainian practice. Regrettably, the real Ukrainian practice in some parts of Ukraine was the following. [[I won't insult them.]] Older people took children from 12 to 16 years of age in their children’s homes, and they adopted them. And those children worked as slaves, as shepherds in the mountains, or somewhere else in these. Children. How can people in their 70 ’ s or 60 ’ s take care of their children and, as it were, provide them with a full family? So I think the committee works perfectly here. There could be exceptions. Exclusion, for example, when it comes to relatives. These are the relatives. I agree that we would have to write the situation down because when a child enters the family, it's like the idea of exploiting a person. And definitely. And the idea that just this difference doesn't make any difference is wrong, because most countries of the world. It's a norm taken from the absolute majority of the world, it's not made up. Just as it is not desirable to adopt into a family where they are 18 years old, they still need to live, to understand life in order to adopt a child. Similarly, it is not possible for pensioners to take advantage of the fact that the child’s upbringing is completely different and that the questions are completely different. So I would consider the right approach that Catherine Lukianov proposed on behalf of the committee to make sure that the authors, I understand their desire to do the right thing, to make those exceptions that we remove when we are able to adopt when the difference is over 45 years old. But it's imperative that we don't cancel this, because I'm sorry, we're going to legitimize the slavery of children in children's homes that are going to be taken to work in mountains or to work in agricultural production.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u154	Gennady Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u155	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Kaplanko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u156	Chapel, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, you know, at the meeting of the Reforms for the Future faction, we've been looking at this issue and we've really split up into two camps. The first camp is a group of deputies who really protect this norm, like today's Mikola Tomenko, which seems to be a question of abuse when adoptionists use children from 10 years of age or older as their employees in their plantations. Of course, that may be the case, but we don't live in Papua New Guinea, or in Mexico, somewhere in the southern states, where we can say that the denial of children's rights is, well, it carries such a mass phenomenon. In view of the following question, I specifically asked my colleagues: “Please tell me, if the Queen of England turns and wants to adopt a child in Ukraine, does she not have enough rights to do so? I'll remind you, she's over 45 years old. Well, maybe there's some, you know, two different planes. But by denying a person the right to adopt a child, if he is not, in my opinion, it is a violation of his rights and a narrowing down of his constitutional interests. To date, many parents of that age have considerable experience and social status, generally materially assured, approach the question of birth, or the choice of a child is very responsible. In addition, many parents give birth at that age, and they are successfully brought up. That's why the MP's Reform for the Future called for support of this bill, no matter what. As for the 2009 Constitutional Court ruling, I would like to remind you that the question of the constitutionality of adoption of a child under 45 years of age was being discussed, but not the moral aspect of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u158	Fedun, faction. Kovalevska, please. Kovalevsky's Julia microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of Regions will support this bill in the first reading. And to the second reading, if there are such serious remarks, we will work on it. After all, setting the age limits of 46 years when such a person and an older person are deprived of the right to adopt a newborn child is not, in my opinion, appropriate. After all, we now have many examples of one of the marriages as a parent and the difference between the age of the other mate is over 45 years. And so we're making this adoption impossible. All of us realize that a child should be brought up in a family, and we give priority to this. Today, I was personally approached by voters because of such discrimination when a couple loses their right to form a full - time family: one of the members of the marriage has the right to adopt at their own age, and the other is an elder and deprived of that right. Therefore, I believe that this first - reading bill should be adopted, developed, and made possible by those who are experienced in raising a child in the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u160	One minute, please, Carmazin, from a faction that has not been recorded. The guaranteed right to speak from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u161	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have great respect for our classic Nicholas Tomenka, but in this case his reference to the absence of slavery and the fact that constitutionally recognized this decision is that the difference between an adoptive and a child cannot be greater than 45 years, it has no meaning. Because you could write 50 years, 46 years -- whatever number you could write. It doesn't matter. As a result, I support the legislative initiative of the Pavlovka People’s Deputies, and I want all of us to understand that the main thing is obviously the situation of fewer orphans in the State, and more precisely that they are not present at all. That's the first one. And secondly, after they voted in favour of a shameful decision on the alleged execution of court decisions, it was the destruction of the aids and the niggers in general, and the militias, and the prosecutors, and the firemen, and everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u162	Thank you. Thank you. Sit down, Yuri Anatolyevich, sit down Yuri Anatolyevich. I'm a famous Democrat to a certain extent. Sit down, please. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Amendment Act to the Ukrainian Family Code. [[concerning adoption]] [[Registration number 3657]] Please vote. [[13:15:33]] For 256 Thank you. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the "Rizzle" record. It takes an hour to go to "Victane", please sign up. Please, dear fellows, I remind you once again, before 2:00 15 minutes, an hour. Nayden's Andrey is a faction of Communists. Be prepared for Paul’s. Please, Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u163	Respectable compatriots! Today, authorities, as in the case of the right opposition, are shouting every time on every corner about the alleged 20th anniversary of Ukraine's Independence. However, reality has shown every time that this independence remains empty by a paper declaration. Regrettably, the authorities continue to take care, not of the economic successes of our State and of the dignity of the people, but of their enrichment. To that end, they are prepared to commit any crime, in particular the surrender of Ukraine's national interests. On the part of the President and the parties of power today, more strongly than under the orange authorities, anti-constitutional and anti-legal actions against the Ukrainian people are taking place. Without taking into account the views of most Ukrainian citizens, the President and all the current authorities continue to submit to the aggressive plans of the United States, the imperial ambitions of the rulers of the Pacific. Today's actions by the Ukrainian authorities prove the lies of the Party of the Regions' pre-election promises, which have recently given criticism to the secret conspiracy of Yushchenko, Yatsenuk and Timoshenko to prepare for NATO accession. We also remember the hypocritical blue and white balloons with the inscription "NATO-NATO!".. Dear voters, the current power has made a dangerous inclination towards “orangeism” in foreign policy as evidenced by the meeting of Viktor Yanukovic with the Deputy Minister of Defence of the United States on International Security, Alexander Wersbow, in which Janukovic has repeatedly stressed the importance of Ukraine's assistance and cooperation with NATO. It is cynical that the implementation of the Strategic Partnership Charter between Ukraine and the United States, which was signed in December 2008, is a priority for Ukraine. This is because the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on the Fundamentals of Internal and Foreign Policy, which was initiated by the communists earlier last year. It is written in black and white that Ukraine is a non-block State and remains neutral in foreign policy. However, some authorities have been increasingly forgetting the provisions of the document. Ukraine's company requires Ukraine to implement the Law on the Fundamentals of Domestic and Foreign Policy, which provides that Ukraine is an extra-block State. Any discussion of cooperation with NATO is illegal and cannot be allowed to do so. The Communists call on the President of Ukraine to stop the humiliating call to the representatives of the American authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u164	To invite Andrey Pavlovski, the faction "BUT" - "The Fatherland" will speak for him – Irina Gorin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u165	Andrey Pavlowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block - Fatherland. Dear compatriots, today we have all become witnesses as the authorities of the Janukovitch Regional Party have passed another humane law that has deprived the social benefits, the social assistance, the social benefits of the 16th category of citizens. And who was deprived? Listen to this. Veterans, the disabled of the Great War of Homeland, the disabled of Chernobyl, all participants in the elimination of the Chernobyl tragedy, children of war, all military personnel. Listen to me, troopers, when you launch a peaceful demonstration, and you've been deprived of all your benefits. They took away the benefits of prosecutors, teachers, doctors -- only 16 categories. And this is literally the day after the humane pension reform was adopted, which increased the retirement age by 5 years and forced everyone, including young people, to work 10 more years for this miserable, shameful pension. And it's clear that these actions of the criminal authority of oligarchs who solve all the social problems at the expense of ordinary citizens cause resentment, social tension in society. And in order to break the wave of popular protest, they are early cast for playing leaders of opposition, patriots like Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenko. And Julia Timoshenko has been in inhuman conditions for 35 days. Why is she being judged? For being in force majeure, in a difficult crisis in 2009, she was able to give heat to the villages of Donetsk, Lugansk, to return the gas, to reverse it?Oh, my God! That she put gas in Europe!? That's why she's being judged!? For saving the country!? There's no material in the case file to prove her guilt. On the contrary, all witnesses to the charges testify to the benefit of Julia Timoshenko. There's no evidence that there was any damage. The court was finally involved in the case of an audit by a famous company called Ernst & Young, who denied the prosecution's accusation of any harm. There's no harm done, there's no damage to Naftogaza. They're holding an innocent person behind bars because he remains the most popular politician, the most popular leader of opposition, and could now organize, coordinate people's actions to protect their social rights. After the destruction takes place, the genocide of the Ukrainian people needs a real leader who can organize the people to stand up for himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u166	Thank you. I don't see the National Deputy Irina Gorina. Well, there's no Irina Gorina. I'm sorry, Mikhailo Vasilovich. I would like to invite Eugene Kralkov, a faction of Communists. Next up is Mikhail Chechtov, a faction of the Party of the Regions. From the site of the microphone Eugene Zarkov. It's a towel, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u167	I give the word to Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u168	He's handing over to the People's Deputy Lechchenk Kralykov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u169	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro As has been done over the past 20 years, honourable national deputies, in Ukraine, are continuing anti-national reforms. Their violent introduction never ceases, regardless of which group of representatives of the bourgeoisie, whether orange or regional or otherwise, comes to power. Their goal is to ensure that labour exploitation and the continued enrichment of the oligarchs are enhanced in a wide range of progressive reforms. Our voters have become accustomed to the fact that as soon as it comes to reforming, wait for the deterioration of the lives of ordinary people, for this is always the case. On the night of July 8, this year, a group of representatives of the large capital in Parliament, composed of 148 deputies, who are part of the Party of the Regions, the People's Party of Lithuania, parts of the NU-NS and defectors from the orange factions, and today, members of the Reform Group for the Future, have adopted a devastating one for the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens, the Pension Reform. The Communists voted against it because we always stand in the position of defending the interests of the workers. Later, it was found that the Ukrainian national deputies who had taken part in this shameful business of gambling had failed to notice how they voted in favour of increasing pensions to millions of citizens since January 1, 2012. They came to their senses and it was too late because the eighth session was over. For this reason alone, the Law on the Legislative Provision of Pension Reform was not submitted by the Head of the Supreme Council to the President for signature. And on Tuesday, September 6th, the same bourgeois MPs fixed their mistake in paws. That is, millions of people have been denied the hope of retirement. The Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is firmly opposed to the pension genocide in relation to the working people. We ask the President not to sign the Pension Reform Act, but to apply the veto to it. Only then can we believe in the good intentions of valid authority. But I don't think that's going to happen, because power serves the interests of a large capital. After the shameful Pension Reformation, the oligarchs will be taken for no less disgraceful land, while housing, employment, territory, and so on will be to the detriment of the workers. So the simple voters who are getting harder and harder to survive, it's time to conclude that it's not about bad leadership, because it's bad for us over the last 20 years, it's about capitalism. So we have to think about the choices we choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u170	I'd like to invite Mikhail Chechtov, faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Vladimir Moses, "Our Ukraine", to whom the word Karpuk conveys. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u171	The distinguished President, after the 2010 presidential elections, calmed and stabilized the situation, returned Ukraine to the territory of economic growth and embarked on a reform plan led by Viktor Yanukovic. One of the most important indicators of the integrity of the chosen route has been the 5 per cent increase in Ukraine's GDP in 7 months of the current year, and additional funding has led to an increase in social standards. Officially and without the avalanche and campaigning authorities are engaged in daily frivolous work, harvesting a good harvest, which is a third more than last year. As a result, the country will not run out of bread, which is very important in the face of rising food prices in the world. The infrastructure has been upgraded in preparation for the Euro-2012, and new bridges, openings, hundreds of kilometres of new and renovated roads are being put into operation after five years of stagnation. By successfully resolving current issues, the authorities are also planning a strategic perspective for Ukraine's development. For the first time in the 20-year history of our country, the President has set a large-scale task for his team to reform the State and society. In fact, Viktor Janukovic formulated the national idea of building a prosperous, free, democratic, legal, high-tech Ukraine as an integral part of a large European family, and the way to this is the deepest modernization of the country. Strong fight against corruption remains an important factor in the success of reforms. In this context, the authorities seek to establish a precedent for the irreparability of punishment for violations of the law, regardless of the positions, even the highest who have occupied or occupied corruption. When this rule is firmly established, the quality of life in our country will be markedly changed for the better. Ukraine's position in the world has been dramatically strengthened. Today we are conducting international negotiations on equal terms, not on the position of a younger brother. The time of unequal relations remains in the past, and our foreign partners must be aware of that. Our strategic objectives: associate membership in the European Union, establishment of a free trade zone with the EU, implementation of a national visa-free regime plan with the European Union. The achievement of these goals will make Ukraine an integral part of a single democratic Europe. In implementing the Presidential Modernization Plan, in 2012, we must complete the most important reforms, which means that the Supreme Council will continue its ninth session on advanced reform, providing legislative support for modernization. In order to fulfil these and other tasks, Parliament cannot allow itself to be drawn into political confrontation. Politicians should not be allowed to be torn apart by the State. The alternative to confrontation is the negotiating table. I am convinced that the goal of most of the people in this room is to increase the well-being of the people and to achieve it is to work to reform the country. This friendly work is called upon by the faction of the regions by all colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u172	I invite Vladimir Moysik, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". He will be followed by John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u173	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! On September 6th of this year, the faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" excluded 12 national MPs from its ranks, namely those who entered the ruling coalition and called into the nation by carcases, and those who, together with authority, voted in favour of the shameful harkow agreements. Speaking of those who entered the coalition, so-called carcases, they not only violated the block's programming, statutory tasks and parties that they were involved in, but they spat in the eyes of the voters of Ukraine, who chose them as a democratic majority in September 2006. But God is with them, they've taken a step, we've made their lives easier, and maybe some of the lives of the ruling Party of the Regions. Today, with a calm conscience, you can take them to your lions so as not to be called traitors by the electorate and most of our factions. As far as the Harkiv covenant, respected colleagues, the present authorities today see that they are anti - Ukrainian, not defending the interests of our state, but of aggressive Moscow. And today, when President Janukovic wants to be tried on gas contracts in 2009, he says, "The contract has been concluded by the owners." The Ministry of Foreign Affairs says, "Oh, no. By ratifying the Kharkiv agreements, the Supreme Council of Ukraine acknowledged that we agreed to this contract and agreed to reduce the gas by $100." And first of all, I'm sure it's legal and last in my speech. Dear colleagues who preside over the meeting do not announce the faction's decision to expel our deputies, the Head. They refer to the Rules, to the Rules Committee. Article 60, honourable colleagues, provides that the faction’s reports on the expulsion of deputies are made by the chairman on the basis of the faction, not necessarily a protocol. We've moved on. Set up a protocol. The subject matter of the regulatory committee does not refer to the question of either entering the faction or going out or being expelled. So our conclusion is that the power is roughly and cynically involved in the work of the opposition faction. I repeat, hold one of the ones we've ruled out, another overpowered faction, and you'll need them. And he wanted to end the fact that, even though he was leading the opposition faction today, he was cooperating with the authorities because he voted against this decision, and so today, speaking from two factions, he didn't talk about the fact that there are our deputies who are excluded from the faction. And today, you see, anti-national laws are being voted in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u174	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u175	It seems like the representatives of the faction of our Ukraine are talking about the voices of those who are excluded from the faction. I repeat, the authorities are disgracefully interfering with the activities of the opposition faction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u176	I invite John Popescu, the faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Mikola Romanyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u177	Thank you. The sands, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the region of Cherniewec. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Today's speech has traditionally started with thanks this time to the address of Minosveti, Mineneergetics, as well as to the heads of the Michael Papiev district administration, who responded to my parliamentary appeals and speeches from the Supreme Council. [[I am the curator of our area]] I'll remind you that during the previous session, I asked from this rostrum for the promotion and consideration of the school bus program to take into account the call of the rural communities for a single bus to the district for the schools that need it most. And now I'm happy to inform you that at the beginning of the new school year, 30 new buses have arrived in Cherniewec region, allowing for each of the areas that I've talked about, up to three buses each. Yes, they came to the schools of such populace: Khrjetka, Karapčov, Boyana, Krasnoilski, and others. From the list I announced, there was still a bus available to the school of the village of Lower Patruzzi of the Watchtower. Another example of concern on the part of the new regional authority about the growing generation is the giving up of two new schools by September 1st: in the village of Young People in the Deep and in the village of Kamyan in the Watch Tower. Today, with the opportunity to prepare the State Budget for 2012, I would like to draw attention to some of the subjects in the educational sector that are supported by local authorities, but need support not only from the regional authorities, but also from the central authorities, particularly from the Minfin. In this way, State support needs, in particular, the construction of a school in the village of Jordanest, the region of Glubeck, which had already begun in early September of this year. In order to reach preschool children by raising them in kindergartens, it is necessary to build them in the village of Stanits and in the village of Spray. [[3,077, 312 preschoolers, 57 children have been born this year]] [[2,486 residents, 232 preschoolers, and in 2011 50 children were born]] The last one takes seven million dollars. In addition, in the Novoselice region in the village of Toporovka, 80 percent of the garden is ready for 220,000 bracelets and 45 percent are ready for construction in the village of Magala. [[4,450 inhabitants, 188 preschoolers]] [[7200 residents, 465 preschoolers, have been born with 76 children this year]] To complete the construction work, it takes another 2 million dollars, and so forth. On the basis of the above, we ask Minfin to meet local and regional executive authorities in preparation for the 2012 State Budget and to anticipate the cost of building these and other social facilities. My statement is considered a parliamentary request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u178	We invite Michael Romanyuk, a faction of the Party of Regions, to be followed by Uljana Mistpan, the faction of "BUT- "The Fatherland." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u179	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Today the attention of the President and the whole society is tied to the housing situation. We all advocate that housing services be accessible to citizens and are the same throughout Ukraine. At present, however, there are many regulations at both the national and local levels that place consumers in unequal conditions. In particular, discrimination over the past year has had to be tolerated by Montenegrins for more than a year. This is the only district center where there has been no centralized hot water for over 10 years, and over 60 percent of the population has been using electric water heaters. At the same time, this situation is not taken into account by the NCRE Decision, which, as of February 1, 2011, imposed new differentiated electricity tariffs on the population and the population, particularly on the part of the black people, because of their inappropriate circumstances, they are forced to consume more than a defined premium limit of 150 kilowatts/hours per month. In this way they pay for higher tariffs than the citizens who use electric stoves and electric power plants, a premium limit of 250 kilowatts/hours. And this is when the state is comfortable with reducing the consumption of heat from natural gas and increasing the consumption of alternative sources of electricity. An experiment in Chernobyl, where centralized hot water supplies have been abandoned and gas consumption has been considerably reduced by utility heat, could interest the government, the profile ministry, and become pilots for all of Ukraine. Instead, instead of supporting this situation, residents of the city found themselves in discriminatory conditions and the NCRE rulings imposed in unequal conditions, also found residents of buildings where OSB was created and who should pay for electricity at the level of legal persons, i.e. 26 percent more than residents living in private-communal property houses. Not equal conditions in the payment of electricity are driving residents to give up the creation of OSBB, and individual OSBBs are now considering the possibility of quitting their activities. Therefore, please consider my request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Government, requiring more careful analysis of the situation with regard to the introduction of differentiated electricity tariffs and to contribute to the decision-making of NCRE by setting a tariff on electricity for the population living in OSB-based houses at the level of the population living in private and municipal property; tariffs on the limit and consumption of electricity for the population of cities without centralized hot water supply, which is used by water heaters, to the population category of buildings equipped with kitchen tiles and others. I look forward to supporting the government and the NCRE. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u180	Please prepare an appropriate appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine as announced by the National Deputy. I'd like to invite you to the Ulyana Mistpane, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." It will be followed by Victor Taran. [[Terra]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u181	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I'm going to start by addressing more than 4,000 voters in the 86th constituency, which includes the Rokitnian, Boguslavsky, Mironovsky district of Kiev, where the soul screams for help. Since September 1st of this year, many of us have stopped paying dues under the law to Chernobyl payments, to pay to children of war, and to retired military personnel. With great power, we stood up for this money through the courts. The officials' explanation that this is in line with the amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget Act of June 14 and the Cabinet of Ministers of July 6, this year, No. 745, which foresees such restrictions. And that's the problem. Not all of us have been reduced in pensions, but only those who have a court decision written "to pay in a new size before the legislative changes are made." And those who have "pay forever" are not reduced in size. We didn't understand why the judges who looked at our cases, and they're exactly the same in each of us, divided people into white and black. For us, every penny is a road, and we lost thousands of dollars in one day. The rally that took place in the village of Rokitne on September 6th brought together about 4,000 people who are extremely radical and the results of the rally are a prepared resolution, which together with signatures, and 4 thousand and 276 of them add these signatures. Yesterday, representatives of the community submitted their demands to the President's office, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. People demand immediate reimbursement of their lost expenses and an explanation of who gave them the right to rob. I would like to point out that this problem has been created by members of the majority. Chapter VII gave the Cabinet of Ministers the right to set pensions and social benefits. This rule opened the way for illegal intervention and reduction of pensions in the category of pensioners. There is no legal explanation for the situation. All these actions outside the Constitution, that is, they're illegal. I would like to point out that no fundamental law has been amended either in Chernobyl or in the status of war children or in the provision of pensions for military pensioners. Therefore, on July 8, 2011, 56 opposition national deputies submitted a constitutional submission on the compliance of the Constitution of Ukraine with section VII, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. Until now, however, it has not been considered. Destructed people blame judges who have made wrong decisions. Under the same conditions, judges continued to make different decisions. As their practice has shown.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u182	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u183	And now it is up to the judge not only to Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, who is being held unjustifiably in the SSO, and judging by the actions of Judge Kiriev, that the same sentence will be handed down, but also to the pensioners who have earned these pensions. So I believe that not only Minsk and Minpraci will respond to these signatures, but the President himself will. After all, it is primarily his personal authority and the authority of the State. There are dozens of people in my constituency and in Ukraine. They do not, cannot, must not, must not, the citizens of Ukraine judge their state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u184	I invite Victor Taran to the floor. [[Terra]] He will be followed by Marina Perestenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u185	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. My dear Ukrainians, you and I live in a unique country where everyone knows everything in advance. It is well - known to everyone and everyone that Julius Tymoshenko is not judged at a high price for gas, for today’s authorities cannot buy gas in Russia at a lower price. They're judging Julia Timoshenko, and that's what everyone knows because she's capable of winning Yanukovich in the next presidential election. And it is known that a great and powerful man named Yanukovic fears Timoshenko in a banal way. That's true. And it is also known that the sentence was written in advance of the trial, and that this sentence was not written in the chamber of the Cave District Court. And we know today that this is planned 5-7 years after an article that does not foresee amnesty or conditional punishment. And it is also known that this judgment will be announced next week when there will be no parliamentary sessions so that there will be no deputies so as not to bring the word of truth to the Ukrainian people. Everybody knows it. Well, for example, it was very well known that in this room the regions would vote for the reduction of pensions. They did it. It was well - known that they would now be voting for the elimination of the benefits to black people, other categories. They did it and they know why they did it because they need money, they need to steal, they need to get rich. And so it is also known that such authority is doomed, that it will not exist for long. It's axiomatic. And, you know, I just read something so interesting that in Ukraine there's a very famous Feofan Stepanovich Music called Ukrainian Nostradamus. He's a physicist, he's an analyst, he predicted a moment, a second moment of crisis, other things that we're just wondering about, so it was all true. And I'm quoting what we know so far is the Nostradamus, our Ukrainians. He says, "The end of 2011 will be very tense, this power will fall soon. The following year, 73 people will lose power -- they will be put away forever." I think everyone in Ukraine also knows exactly who this Ukrainian Nostradamus meant, this Ukrainian analyst, when he spoke of this power being punished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u186	I'd like to invite Marina Perestenko, a faction of Communists. It will be followed by Helen Bondarenko, "BUT is the Fatherland". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u187	Thank you. Honorable national MPs, distinguished voters, no one's secret is that in Ukraine there has been an increase in the number of families who have gone beyond poverty. These families, first of all, have families that raise a disabled child. These families are usually incomplete. Mothers are forced to remain alone with their plight. This is especially true of families living in rural areas. A low cultural level, a lack of funds, a lack of creative capacity has led our country to see children with disabilities and young people with limited opportunities as people of the second class. For families with a disabled child, except for very limited financial opportunities, social isolation and negative relationships with the social environment are a major problem. In the Bahchisarai region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, 273 families have children with special needs, 190 of whom are rural. The work in the village is practically seasonal. Social payments to mothers of disabled children in Ukraine are less than a thousand dollars. The cost of feeding the child, getting him clothes, and medication is very difficult. In addition, a family member is constantly forced to be with the child with special needs. In turn, children do not have the ability to communicate with their peers. The need to establish a facility for the social rehabilitation of children with disabilities of crisis families is that there is nothing similar in the Bahchisarai region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in rural areas. To increase the impact on the families of children with disabilities, the social organization of mothers of disabled children, young disabled persons and their close "Little Country" began work in January 2011 to establish a rehabilitation centre for the social adaptation of children and young disabled persons in the village of Kuibyshevo Bachchisarai. At the beginning of its activities, the center already has the social assistance of 10 families with children with special needs. The current renovation of the premises, rent and utilities, the acquisition of furniture, medical supplies are made up of personal resources and the special costs of parents of disabled children, as well as the donation of individuals and legal persons, and private entrepreneurs. But because of the difficult economic situation of these families, the full support of the center is insurmountable. In turn, the existence of this facility in rural areas, which includes 15 villages in the Bahchisarai region of the AR Crimea, will be a major step in the implementation of the State’s obligations to implement the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. On March 30, 2011, Kabmin approved the concept of a state-wide programme "National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Development of a Disability Rehabilitation System for the period to 2020". I think this center, the social organization of mothers of disabled children, needs to be included in this program. And I ask you to consider this statement as a parliamentary request to the Minister of Social Policy and Labour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u188	Please prepare an appropriate request from the National MP. First of all, I'd like to invite you to Helen Bondarenko, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." It will be followed by Andrew Parubius. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u189	Olena Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Dear Ukrainians, you know, in one of the transitions to the Supreme Council building, there's this sign that says, "Walk on a plank." Of course, some repairs are involved, but in the context of today’s Ukrainian events, this simple inscription is very symbolic. Indeed, the ever more violent and aggressive power of Yanukovich directs the Ukrainians to walk on the board. Step to the left or to the right — and you are on the verge of injustice, speechlessness, fear, injustice. It is clear to all today that the tragedy in the Cave Court has nothing to do with justice. Julius Timoshenko is being held behind bars for complete absence of composition, events, evidence of a violation of the law. The court refuses to question witnesses and attachments of documents that inexcusably prove that the Timoshenko case is a shameful forgery. Day after day there is a brutal dispute over the leader of the opposition, for it is Julia Timoshenko who can lead people to defend their rights. The authorities fear Julia even by imprisoning her. But the disgraceful court over Yulia Timoshenko is also a sign that Janukovič is constantly being handed over by the authorities to every citizen and society. This authority tells you, "Fear! Obey! Shut up! Get on the board!".. When they destroy your business and take your property, when they take away housing, pensions, jobs, the right to protest, fair trial, social guarantees, constitutional, bow, silent, boardwalking. Not understanding what's going on with the country and us is irresponsible. Agreeing is not just rude, it is criminal for your family, your country, your child, your parents. Today, Julia Timoshenko shows us a heroic example of what we can and should fight for our rights, for our family, for our country. Let us imitate heroic examples! Today, each and every one of us must become heroes in defense of our own land. Let's defend Julia Timoshenko, we'll protect Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u190	I'd like to invite you to say, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". He will be followed by Vladimir Viezowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u191	Young Andrew, "Our Ukraine." Ukrainians! Today our nation faces very important and serious challenges. These are challenges both external and internal. It's this fall that we have to sign a free trade agreement and a political association with the European Union. And we see that our northern neighbour, the Russian Federation, is doing everything he can to prevent Ukrainian integration into Europe. Various mechanisms have been launched to prevent Ukraine from going to Europe. This is an important challenge that requires the response of Ukrainian, national, national, and patriotic forces. On the other hand, there are big challenges inside. We see Janukovic's regime doing everything possible to destroy any opposition forces in the state in order to stop Ukraine's movement to Europe through internal repression, because no one in Europe needs a dictatorial regime. This began after an anti-constitutional majority was created in Parliament, as they began to bribe and intimidate deputies from the opposition and drag them to the majority, and ended up being arrested by one of the leaders of the opposition. So the honest opposition deputies of the faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" on the first day of the session gathered together for a faction and ruled out all those deputies who had long gone to power for various reasons that had been bought, who had been intimidated, who might have betrayed the bloc's pre-election programme and started working openly with the authorities, they were all expelled from the faction legitimately, with the necessary quorum, in the personal vote of each MP. We were convinced that in this way we would start organizing the effective work of our faction. But on the second day, we saw that the mechanism for the destruction of opposition parties in parliament was continuing. The Governing Body refuses to read our decision from the Supreme Council’s rostrum. And without reading that decision, according to the Rules, MPs are not disfellowshipped. Although it is clearly stated in the Rules that the report of expulsion from the MP’s faction is made by the chairman of the plenary meeting at the head of the MP’s faction. Unfortunately, this has not been done so far, a script is being played with the regulatory committee to prevent this from happening. The government is doing everything possible to stop the creation of an effective national faction in Parliament, in order to stop an effective Ukrainian action that could work effectively in Parliament. It's a shame that some faction members are doing everything they can to slow this process down. It is very surprising that the faction head does not wish to announce this decision from the rostrum of parliament. But we're patriotic deputies from the faction that we're going to do everything we can anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u192	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u193	unite the pro-Ukrainian forces into effective Ukrainian action, the authorities will not stop us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u194	I would like to invite Vladimir Vizevski, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". He will be followed by Vladimir Danilenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u195	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". Dear Ukrainians, I would like to draw further attention to the anti-constitutional decision taken today in the Supreme Council. This refers to a bill that was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers under the signature of Mikola Azarov. Recently, a number of voters in the stadium turned to another part of the electorate. That sounded very public, and so I'm going to simplify this saying, "Thanks to the Donbassians for President Barabbas." So I would like to say, perhaps now all the Ukrainians -- both East and West and South and North -- can turn and thank our Prime Minister for such a bill, which clearly shows how he hurts for all the Ukrainians, because it sounds good to execute. on the adoption as a basis of the draft Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments. Do you think at least one of the 150 million bracelets declared in an explanatory note by the Ministry of Justice, at least one bracelet in the budget for this year or for the coming year? None. And what's more, the state said, we don't refuse to do anything, before Europe, we're going to show that we're good, but instead of the millions of debts that the state has in front of the Ukrainians, in front of teachers, doctors, pensioners, we're going to pay you the poppy dowry. This is what the bill says. There were so many rows of Ukrainians here. I'd like to point out to some of the others who may have heard this call from the stadium during the famous football tournament. Dear miners, the law on. the mining law of Ukraine, we all know well 43 articles on guarantees, social guarantees for mining workers, so here, the respected miners, these rights deprive you of this law, which seems to have nothing in common with the removal of the benefits. And that's why we Ukrainians definitely need to know what we're doing, and who we're going to put our shoulders on tomorrow, and who we're going to show the poppy duo that the authorities are showing you to the Ukrainians today. I would like to take further note of the seemingly monolithic and powerful authority of today. I assure you that the mandate of the President of Ukraine during his stay in the Lviv region, especially in the part concerning cross-border cooperation and increased transitions to Poland, and from Poland we will be holding the Euro-2012 together, is not being implemented. Neither Azarov nor Vice-Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs nor Minister of Foreign Affairs have made any submission and concern in the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out the President's mandate to implement the Ukrainian-Polish Inter-Parliamentary Agreement to increase customs transitions. This includes the Ugrinj crossing in the Sokal region. So I'd like this speech to sound and be recorded as a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers for the execution of inter-government agreements and Presidential orders. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u196	Please prepare an appropriate MP’s request, as discussed by Deputy Viezowski. I invite Vladimir Danilenko, a faction of Communists. He will be followed by Yuri Prokopchuk, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u197	Dear Chairman! Dear voters! Today I went to this rostrum to inform you of the restoration of the feudal system in Ukraine. As a national deputy of Ukraine, I was asked by residents of the word Red Suma Region to help them to maintain the pasture and haystacks that peasants have used to breed cattle for many years. The villagers reported that, in February of this year, the head of the Sumu District State Administration had personally taken the above mentioned land into the village communities and handed it over for gardening to the inhabitants of other populated areas, a number of which had been outside Ukraine for many years and had not been able to make a claim for land. The above decision was taken without taking into account the general congregations of peasants who opposed the transfer of the plots. To protect their rights, residents of the village of Red turned to law enforcement agencies, but unfortunately this did not result in positive results. Only after my appeal to the Suez District Attorney’s Office did I manage to put a little pause on the process. From the lists were excluded people who could not write the relevant statements, the conclusion of the commission was reversed, which without proper authority in breach of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine was signed by the chief specialist of the South-East Regional Department of the State Environmental Protection Authority in the Sumski district. But all of this has had no effect on the basic decision of the head of the administration, and at this point the villagers are losing their land, and some individuals are profiting from it. The villagers gave me the decision of the Red Rural Council of October 1, 2011, which states that the above mentioned land is exempt from the use of T.O. and remain the land of the reserve and the reserve of the rural council, which confirms the absence of the authority of the head of the Sumu District State Administration to manage the designated land areas. However, despite the obvious facts of the violation of legislation, the prosecutor’s office refuses to take sides with the villagers, since the decision of the Reich administration was made on the basis of an unqualified reply from the prosecutor’s office. The evidence confirms once again that a vertical is being built in Ukraine that does not take into account the opinion of the people and the local communities. In view of the above, under the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, I appeal to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to duly check the legality of the decision of the head of the Suma District State Administration to grant permission to develop the project to the plots of land. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u198	Thank you. I would like to invite Yuri Prokopchuk, the faction "BUT" – "The Fatherland", followed by Tamara Yegorenko, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u199	Dear Ukrainian people! For more than a month, Julia Timoshenko has been in the Lukyanovian SIZO. The criminal prosecution of the former prime minister testifies to the prosperity of the status quo in the Ukrainian courts, the violation of the basic requirements of justice, the low professional level of the judiciary and the lack of guarantees of independence and the objectivity of the judges. The whole world is being watched in our country trying to condemn a statesman, a politician, a leader of the opposition of Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, and other political prisoners. The actions of the Yanukovitch authorities are aimed at preventing opponents from going to electoral races. By the hands of the court, they deprive Julia Timoshenko of the right to protection, the right to freedom. The court's decision to take a precautionary action against Yulia Timoshenko in the form of a take-up under the watch is loud and unwarranted. Because a violation of the court order is the basis for the application of procedural sanctions, not the precautionary measures applied to serial killers. In violation of the rules of the Criminal Procedure Code, the court refuses to satisfy virtually all the problems that the party claims to be protecting Julia Timoshenko. In addition, Janukovitch’s subordinate authority, the court changed the entire order of the criminal case, without having declared all the volumes of the case, without listening to all the witnesses. The man in the mantle, today’s Beria and Visinsky in one person named Kiriev continues to fear direct broadcasts of the court. The ban on video shoots, the restrictions on journalists' presence, the lack of public admission to court, are in grave violation of the principle of publicity of the process, which is a strong tool for protecting Timoshenko. By yesterday’s ruling, the judge, who was glorified by the fact that he closed criminal cases on drug trafficking and for which two people had committed suicide after his unlawful decisions, prohibited him from denying his actions. In the same vein, I violated the principle of competition in court. Is it possible to expect a just judgment and a just trial if such lawlessness is done? To continue with this case means to ignore the facts that completely and completely refute all false accusations. The main sign of the crime fell away, the Cabinet of Ministers' directives were unnecessary, and Julia Timoshenko acted clearly within the limits of her authority. There's not only damage, there's no sign of crime. The "BUT - "Paternity" faction warns all branches of power against the danger that confronts them and all Ukrainian society. The entire world is watching the political court, and this has already been evaluated. Remember your accounts — businesses abroad. Today you will condemn us, tomorrow the people will come for you. Justice will prevail. Get your hands off Timoshenko! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u200	I invite Tamar Yegorenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. She'll be followed by Ivan Stojko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u201	Dear voters, fellow MPs, our country has recently begun a new school year. Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic stated: The educational sector needs increased attention and investment in the future, investment in the development of our country. The government and authorities are eager to care for the problems of family, school, teachers, students, spiritual and moral education for young people. I went to the educational institutions of Donetsk, helping to solve the problems of burning the rural schools of the Novoazow region, and now the issue of free coal provision for the preschool facilities of the Telmanov region is being resolved. After learning about the material and technical base of preschools and schools in Donetskina, the main problems of ensuring quality education and preserving the health of Ukrainian children were identified. In collaboration with the district and representatives of various charities in the area, assistance was provided to residents of the Starobishiv region, and a children’s preschool was renovated at the expense of the district budget, an international program of the United Nations. And in our district, there's the development of sports education for babies, for schoolchildren, for young people. The anticipated construction of artificial sports courses, the development of children's and amateur football, reconstruction and the ongoing renovation of stadiums and playgrounds. The authorities are now taking serious steps to preserve the physical development and health of children. So you and I have a great responsibility for the fate of the young generation. Prime Minister Mikola Azarov commissioned the Minister of Education, along with the Ministry of Health, to conduct an in-depth medical examination of children in schools and kindergartens the following year. By the end of the school year, better medical professionals in various fields are expected to be invited to attend school to determine the health group of schoolchildren. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Health, only a sixth of graduates of Ukrainian schools have no health problems. The Ukrainian Academy of Medical Sciences notes that 80 percent of school graduates have chronic diseases. Children have much worse eyesight, and they suffer from a brace. My parents want to see their children healthy, educated, and their teachers wise and just. Today’s demands for teachers are very high, and computer technology is one of them. Today, a high school student can be better acquainted with the Internet than his teacher. Not a secret that is now being taught mainly by retired teachers in schools. There has been a trend toward aging pedagogical staff. There's a huge problem with preschool footage. Young professionals cannot find a teacher’s job, especially in rural areas, because the teacher’s pension is so small that teachers in rural areas try to work as long as possible and there is a deficit in large cities. It is important to develop postgraduate education, need, and to increase the professional competence of teachers. The successful implementation of the system of continuous education of educators in the Donetsk region is the result of the integration of the efforts of all management and methodological structures. The authorities of the local self - government of Donetsk are trying to create.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u202	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u203	In school, conditions allow teachers and children to feel comfortable. In my opinion, we need to review the social policy of the state, raise the annual expenditure on education, set up a decent pension for teachers. Our nation's priority should be to preserve and strengthen children's health, to improve the quality and effectiveness of health care, to ensure social justice, to ensure the rights of small Ukrainian citizens to the best of education, because, they say, the greatest wealth and intelligence.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u204	I invite John Stoick, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". He will be followed by Jaroslav Kenzier. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u205	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ivan Stoika, Party "For Ukraine!" Honourable compatriots, dear Ukrainians, the next peak of cynicism and the abuse of our Ukrainian people after the Kiwalov and Koleschenka bill, where the Ukrainian language is to be thrown into the trash, are submitted on September 6, this year to Parliament by MPs of the vast majority of Booth and Chencé’s Bill No. 9105 on the list of cultural heritage items that are not to be privatized. This bill is practically intended to pass on the spiritual center of the world’s scale forever, namely, the Pocavian Lavra Moskovsky Patriarchate, contributing to the total impoverishment of the Ukrainian people and the destruction of all Ukrainians. For the time being, it is the Pochai’s Lavra that is being rented for 49 years, the Moscow Patriarchy itself. Such a gift was given to this church in 2004 by the government of Yanukovich, who, in 2003 in a Jesuit way, had been brought out of the Kremenac-Pochai State Historical Architectural Reserve, and then rented to something other than the Kyivsky, but to the Moscow Patriarchy by 2052. After the notorious Kharkiv Pact, which gave green light to the deployment of a foreign nation’s fleet into the territory of Ukraine, the Cabal Gas Contracts, the effective authorities took a course to destroy Ukrainian shrines and began a total offensive to Ukrainian spirituality. The birthplace of God’s Mother, the Ukrainian Home, is actually transformed into a center of anti - Ukrainianism, interfaith hostility, strife, and opposition not only in Ternopolska but also in Ukraine. As a national deputy, I have many appeals from the electorate of Ternopolska, the deputy corps of the local councils of various levels, who are deeply outraged and deeply concerned by the central authorities ignoring their thoughts and decisions. In fact, the proposed bill nullifies Ukrainian history and Ukrainian faith. The Kremlin’s appetites grow from day to day, and the current power, while discriminating other religious denominations, favors one, the Moscow Patriarchate, thus grossly destabilizes not only the religious but also the political situation in Ukraine, causing an outbreak of civil disobedience. We all realize that only the idea of creating a single local church can unite a state, not animosity and interfaith conflicts and conflicts. Like all of Ukraine’s shrines, Pochai’s Lavra cannot be privatized by one church. It is the historical acquisition of all of our people, I emphasize, Ukrainian, not Russian, Polish or any other. So we have to do everything we can to ensure that this bill is not put into the agenda. And I am addressing the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not to include it in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u206	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u207	This session is because it bears disunity and opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, I also address you as worthy advocates of my people and remember the eternal slogan, "God and Ukraine above all else." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u208	I'd like to invite Jaroslav Kendzior. He will be followed by Vladimir Kaplienko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u209	Jaroslav Kenzior, Party for Ukraine! Dear friends, today I would like to begin my speech from the rostrum of the Supreme Council quite unusually. I would like to have such a brief public conversation with the honourable Mr. President. I confess that it has been a surprise to me, Mr. President, for you, I hope, to be sincerely outraged by the relentless pressure of Russia's leadership on Ukraine. You spoke frankly about that as the President of Ukraine. As President of Ukraine, it offends you, and you will not allow such pressure and insults to Ukraine. God forbid, this urge to finally realize what you are, Mr. President, is the head of the Ukrainian State, and so on and so forth, that it destroys you from the outside and from the outside, and from the inside, you will be indignant and disturbed. I understand that at the moment, one fact has angered you: the pressure to renovate or upgrade new gases. A review of the gas agreements because it affects the interests of the members of your team who use the most expensive Russian gas. But for me, as a Ukrainian member of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, there is no less danger for Ukraine of claims and actions to destroy Ukraine through the spiritual and humanitarian sphere. If you find it difficult to fight with the leadership of Russia, Mr. President, because they're behind the Kremlin walls, then the Kremlin residents are sitting here in the session room, filling your faction, sitting in the Cabinet of Ministers in the person of the Tobacco and some other members of your team. So how logical, as it were, to explain that one thing — the destruction of Ukraine — is really indignant to you, and another, as it were, is passing by your attention? I would very much like these very, very unexpected manifestations of Ukraine in your activities, Mr. President, to develop, and not to be a mere bitaphoria, to play, as it were, in front of that part of Ukrainian society, which is expensive by the national Ukrainian state. So I call upon all authority to scruples.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u210	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u211	I call upon all the power of Ukraine to think at last, to see what kind of state you have to rule, as it were, because the patience of the people cannot be infinite, this is what history has shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u212	I'd like to introduce you to Vladimir Kaplienka. Please note that the time is up, I would like to ask very briefly. I apologize to the other colleagues who signed up, this is the last performance in the hour of the "Variance."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u213	Honorable colleagues, respected citizens. Vladimir Caplienko, People's Authority, MP's Reform for the Future. I'd like to draw your attention today to what's going on in the IMF system on the procedure for registering and re-registering hunting weapons. It happened a long time ago, when in Soviet times, for example, in the 1930s or 1940s, Ukrainian citizens could buy weapons in a sports shop and, in principle, not be re-registered for decades. Each year, however, such groves are plagued when we are required to conduct such a reregister every three years, perhaps starting every year. New regulations, new instructions that weigh down the life of an average citizen, are emerging in the IMF system. In doing so, it should be pointed out that, for example, instruction 622 of the Ministry of Peacekeeping Operations since 1998 allows the Ministry of Peacekeeping Operations to encourage citizens to be re-registered or re-registered by storing or carrying hunting weapons every three years, while paying the costs. I'd like to remind you that these costs are equal to 500 dollars. This is contrary to 92 articles of the Constitution, which stipulates that exclusively the laws of Ukraine establish taxes and congregations and articles 67 of the first law, according to which everyone is obliged to pay taxes and congregations in accordance with the size determined by law, not by any instructions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. It is also illegal for citizens to be required to obtain a copy of a copy of an insurance contract and a reference to a criminal record contrary to article 64 of the Constitution, according to which the constitutional rights and freedoms of a person and a citizen of Ukraine cannot be restricted except in cases provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, the existence or absence of convictions, as well as the insurance contract, cannot affect our view of obtaining a permit to acquire arms, except in cases determined by this law or by a court of law. A special outrage is caused by another novelty of the Ministry of Internal Affairs — the mandatory ballistic firing of all kinds of hunting weapons, gas weapons, and devices to shoot rubber bullets while granting a permit for weapons and their re-registration. This is regulated today by an instruction approved by the Ministry of Internal Affairs since 2009 at number 390. At least three bullets are fired from each of the weapons that make up the search and search collections. They're stored in the IMF system. I'd like to remind you that every bullet or casing has its authenticity and identity and can be used against a human being. We say that no one can force a person to testify against himself. Can the IMF use this casing and find it at a crime scene where the hunter was not present at the time? I would like to point out that this can be used in a political struggle when one or the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-09-m0.u214	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that the following week the national deputies are working on committees, commissions, factions and groups. The next plenary meeting will be held on Tuesday, September 20th at 10 a.m. and the Conciliation Council will be held on September 19th at 11 p.m. So I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Good luck.
