ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:46]] Cards were registered in the 427 people’s deputies’ session room. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our national deputy of Ukraine, our colleague Baburin Aleksija Vasilovich. Please welcome him and wish him good health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 21 to 24 December 2010. There were six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 115 issues of the agenda have been addressed. As a result of their consideration, 34 laws and 22 decrees were passed, 26 bills were passed on the basis, 1 bill was sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, 5 bills were returned to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, 24 bills and 5 draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law has been adopted in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, 50 parliamentary requests have been announced. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized factions with proposals, statements, messages, and so forth. I ask the authorized factions to sign up for the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Alexander Steshenko, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”. Ivan Kirilenko will be speaking. Taras Stacks will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u2	Dear Head, fellows! Respectable compatriots! The year that passed was a sign of political relevance. The formula “We are strong and therefore we have a right!” has been subordinated to the political, legal, information, economic and even social environment in our country. Starting with the Supreme Council Rules and ending with judicial and tax reforms, the return of the old new Constitution, and as an apopheus made -- obedient, ready for any action vertical. In order to complete the picture, it was not enough to test the system with a strong and sensitive irritation. In his quality, the opposition was clearly chosen. Persecution, threats, arrests -- quickly and in an orderly manner, and in fact, without any delay, passed in 2011. By the way, it's the 20th anniversary of our independence. Let's think about it, over the years, the country has survived five presidential campaigns, six parliamentary campaigns, and 15 governments have changed. Each of these branches of institutions was building a new country in its own way, without questioning the high act adopted in August 1991. It has been over the past two decades — fighting, debate, contention, and opposition. Thank God, until recently, it was not the most terrible – repression, the destruction of the disincentives, the total trauma of political competitors. So is there really going to be some prognosis that we're seeing in the 2011 analogy of 1937 last century? Then, by the way, it was also the 20th anniversary, but in the memory of the generation, huge losses of elites, intelligence, cultural gene pools. And there will be no oblivion. So today it is not too late to stop the car from going crazy with the political Inquisition. And, really, well, it wasn't so carefully and carefully combined and organized by everyone and everything. In the Jubilee year, we must finally gather, not scatter, stones. Even so, reprisals cannot be either a goal or a means of stability in the state that has given priority to European choice. And it's not about chasing or attracting. Does not the fact that the leader of the Fatherland is literally not being questioned every day hurt the hearts of millions of its adherents? On the other hand, what is the threat, and what is the fear? Let the prosecutor and the ombudsman say so tomorrow. For several years now, we have clearly held the position that sooner or later, but we should realize that without real opposition, power will never be strong and effective. The opposition, as well as the independent media, is an integral part of a developed civil society. You don't need it now. In a year that has passed, only the members of our faction have submitted over 100 bills to Parliament. The result is almost zero. As no principle has been taken into account, an amendment to tax, judicial, budgetary, and many other laws. It's wrong because it goes by both society and the economy and people. Look, despite the revised Tax Code, you will have to review it again, since tens of thousands of small and medium - size entrepreneurs have either folded or folded their activities. Small businesses are from national sources; they will definitely not give up, they will somehow survive, but they will also be bitter in the shadows. Next. Before voting, think ten times about whether or not a society wants to see a pension reform. After all, apart from a substantial increase in retirement age, beyond life expectancy, nothing is offered. Don't do this nonsense. Don't set up millions of people against you. High pensions, a stable pension fund is primarily a substantial increase in wages on production, new jobs, modernized enterprises, energy-saving technologies, these are your words from this rostrum a year ago. We also propose to make changes to the 2011 budget, which have also voted "on machine" without discussion. In ancient times, the wise men used to say, "The state develops properly if it has trade and art." Or maybe it's going to go wrong, and then it's going to go up. If you ask yourself, what was the country’s main fundraiser for? So answer: What are you building? A few years ago, our northern neighbor with a huge patriotic scale celebrated one of his Jubilees -- an anthem, an apopheus of their language, culture, traditions. Expenses for such things have not been counted, they have not accepted. And in your 2011 budget is the 20th anniversary of Independence, colleagues? So what will this year be for the history of future generations? A Spiritual Breakdown and a National Connection? Or maybe. However, to finish the sentence. Let us not be ashamed just in front of our people and of the whole world. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u3	Taras Stackov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u4	Honourable national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine, well, apparently everyone in this room and outside this room is famous for the phrase of Spanish dictator Franco: “Friends – everything, enemies – the law.” But apparently, today's authority in the Party of Regions has decided to make a creative improvement of this slogan and today it is: “Friends – everything, enemies – lawlessness and destruction.” We understand very well that there is little concern about the current government, that in the past year, in a democracy rating, Ukraine has reached the level of Ethiopia, the Gambia and the Sudan, and that more and more countries and states of the world are making it clear that Ukraine is building a semi-criminal regime. Obviously, the current government just wants to prove to you that we're not Kuchma. What has been the significance of power in the past year? At first, she offered some pseudo-reforms: tax, court, utility, administrative and so on. Then, with the hands of the Constitutional Court, she untied her hands to usurp power, and then she began the main task of political persecution. In fact, this is about the facts of selective political persecution of opposition actors right now. First of all, it is about public political repression against its opponents. Today, 12 employees of the previous government have been deprived of their will. They were not going anywhere, nor were they able to influence the course of the investigation. Therefore, the choice of the court as the most severe precautionary measure can only be seen as revenge, banal revenge against these people, and the intimidation of society by the actions of the new authorities. Unfortunately, there is so much of this evidence today that we can speak confidently if society does not put a screen on it, the country can become an authoritarian and even a totalitarian model of governance. The culmination of all these actions was the complete and cynical detention of ten former Interior Minister Yuri Lucenka and two so - called courts, where there was not even justice there, even basic procedural standards were not respected. I know this room doesn't have many fans of Julia Timoshenko, but how else can you react when a woman is held for ten hours and questioned as to how not to demean a person's dignity? And so it can actually be with everyone. We can't forget the brutal beating of our colleagues from B.U.T. December 16th. And we have so-called fact-by-fact cases that we're sure will be investigated for a long time and then closed. I am no longer talking about taxpayers being detained and also arrested for two months for allegedly damaging the Mayan granite numeral. We are well aware of the purpose of similar actions of authority. The goal is to intimidate the opposition and intimidate society, paralyze the social will to protest and oppose this power. Therefore, our first requirement is that we have to listen as quickly as possible to the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Vladimir Pshonka, who personally has to explain why the obvious political persecution in our country is called criminal, as well as to listen to the Commissioner for Human Rights. The rejection of power from public discussion of political repression against opposition testifies to the world: The Party of Regions and its political allies openly disregard the law and principles of democracy, but they feel in vain that they will escape responsibility for their actions. Today's triumphators should understand that anyone in the service of this regime is now going to a brutal violation and a clear violation of the law and the rule of law, can also be held accountable in the future, and it will not be revenge, but punishment for breaking the law. Basically. The last act of power does not leave the society with a choice, for it is no longer about political competition or even political opposition. And the point is that power builds up an open confrontation between itself and the entire nation, and in fact, society forms a fundamental requirement of whether or not there are forces in this country and people who are able to resist such a regime. I can clearly and clearly say that there will be enough honest people in our country who, based on their patriotism, worldview, and morals, are capable of resisting and stopping this regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u5	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please give your speech. Alexander Ephraim will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u6	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The new year has begun for our people not celebrating, but with another 30 per cent increase in tariffs on housing and utility services, from the return of a penny for untimely payment of services. It is not services, it is certainly a communal yoke that has been imposed on the people of Ukraine. In doing so, the issue of the payment of salaries, pensions and social benefits was not resolved. Is that not the end of cynicism of the so-called democracy? Pension reform, labour and housing codes are on the line. As we, the Communists, have already stated, all these documents have been drafted solely for the sake of building, energy, financial and other oligarchic groups and, I draw your attention, in accordance with the requirements of the International Monetary Fund. It is a gross violation of our political independence of the country's sovereignty. What we offer and what we insist on, until mass action is organized in support of our demands. I'll start with the Labour Code. We demand that the draft Labour Code exclude those rules that allow the employer to increase the working week from 40 to 48 hours and that the working hours are in fact not limited by the fact that periods of forced relaxation will be deducted from the working hours. Moreover, we believe that today it should not be an increase but a reduction in working hours and a working week. First, this will create new jobs in this particular situation. Second, more time will be left for a person to spend in the family, sports, recreation. In our view, the provisions of the Labour Code are unacceptable, which allow the employee to be dismissed without the consent of the trade union. We are opposed to the fact that the project gives the employer the right not to be held responsible for violating its own legislation. The second-reading version of the Housing Code on many parameters is also contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and significantly restricts the rights of our citizens. Thus, if adopted, all queues would have to be re-registered and re-registered. There is no guarantee, however, that their rights will be protected. Moreover, citizens are deprived of the right to housing from the State for indefinite use, with its further transfer by inheritance and privatization. The new Housing Code allows officials and construction raiders to practically unhinderedly throw people out on the street on the pretext of transferring a building from a housing fund to a non-resident. This draft law makes Ukraine essentially a country of nights and ghettos. With regard to pension reform, the proposed bill virtually removes all responsibility for the fate of millions of Ukrainian pensioners. Effective pension reform could only be if the State guaranteed sufficient employment and decent wages. So that working citizens can keep the generation of people who built this Ukraine from their earnings. Furthermore, the State is also under an obligation to tightly control pricing and tariffs so that inflation and price increases do not eat up our labour pensions. We are opposed to the Government's proposal to abolish special pensions for those who have worked in difficult conditions and in harmful production. For veterans of the Armed Forces and law enforcement agencies, other categories of citizens whose work or service is at risk both for health and for life. The pensioner must receive a pension on the basis of where and under what conditions, how many years he has worked. At the same time, we demand a sharp reduction in the level of senior officials' pensions. And more. In Ukraine today, there are no conditions for two parallel systems to be put in place, both cumulative and solidarity-based. If people don't pay their wages if they don't have a job, if they're being kicked out of their apartments, where will they get their pension money for the savings fund? This is another deception of our citizens. The problem of our pension system is the result of the overall poverty of workers, the result of low wages, the meager cost of labour, the high level of unemployment and the tensions of the economy. Of course, in such a situation, there will be neither in the Pension Fund nor, of course, in the stockpiling of every citizen. In conclusion, I would like to emphasize once again that the proposed reforms are not in line with the aspirations and aspirations of the people of Ukraine. We will oppose such reforms and hope for the understanding and support of our constituents and workers. We also look forward to your support, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, as you are elected by the same workers of the people of Ukraine who wish to live a different life today. I would also like to express my views on the issue raised here, in society and in Parliament. First of all, the faction of the Company insists that every official who enters the pocket of a State be criminalized for an offence committed against the people of Ukraine. And I hope that this position is common to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u7	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions Valérie Baranov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Accept your heartfelt congratulations on New Year’s Day 2011 and Christ’s Christmas! Today's plenary meeting is the first in the new year. At the same time, the last plenary week of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was reported. A detailed analysis of the performance of the government for 2010 is still ahead. If you draw on the points of the first outcome, you should note that Ukraine has lived a difficult year. President Janukovic's command, which gained power as a result of the democratic people's will, had to overcome many difficulties, especially in the financial, economic and budgetary spheres that did not allow us to achieve a significant improvement in the standard of living as soon as possible. But the authorities did not try to replace the problem of sweet things but honestly told the people the truth. Too much has been overlooked by our predecessors, so in the shortest possible time, and I hope that the country will not have to live in a fairly tight economy for a long time in order to bring about a change in the lives of the State and society. Important steps have been taken in this regard in the past year. Following a 15 per cent drop in Ukraine's gross domestic product in 2009, GDP growth in 2010 exceeded 4 per cent in inflation - 9. The financial situation has been stabilized. A sufficient resource has been accumulated in the State Treasury, which has allowed for a rhythmic and full funding of State expenditure, particularly social expenditure. The financial and economic results of the previous Government have been audited. I will note that the outcome of the audit has led to shock not only for domestic but also for Western professionals. But this is an emotional view, and the legal assessment of the actions of the former authorities will be given by the law enforcement authorities, which in turn is a signal to those officials who today do not mind confusing public funds with the contents of their personal pockets. A prominent American economist, theorist of the 20th century, John Kenneth Galbraith called politics a choice between fatal and unpleasant. We say honestly that 2011 will not be easy, but it has been recognized as a decisive step in the reform of the State. We don't have a choice. By abandoning half-way reforms, we will deprive Ukraine of the future with our own hands. As you know, there's nothing more dangerous than trying to jump the gap into two jumps. That's the state where the country ended up today, otherwise you won't call it a failure. We faced the need to repay other people’s debts. Already in 2011, we need to pay off the 100 billion bracelets that were borrowed in 2008. Just imagine how much could be done in the social sphere for these 100 billion. That's why we have one way out: maximum income and minimum cost. That is to say, there is no other way to cut the budget and raise its income. At the same time, we do not confuse reform with war, nor do we intend to take our opponents hostage as our own citizens. All social obligations of the authorities will certainly be fulfilled. The standard of living of ordinary citizens will not fall in the new year. Moreover, the State's money reforms will aim at further enhancing social standards. Thus, since the first days of the new year, social assistance for each child has been increased, and this is only a first step in the implementation of the President's programme “Ukraine for the People”. And no one should have any doubt about what the programme describes will be fully implemented. It's only a matter of time. Dear colleagues, during this session we have adopted a number of decisions of great importance to the country. Having adopted the 2011 State budget, we have provided you with the normal smooth planning work of the State since the first days of the new year. Parliament has reviewed and supported a number of key laws and codes that have laid the groundwork for reforms. The Budget and Tax Codes have already begun to work, judicial reform has been undertaken, and the foreign and domestic policies of Ukraine have been adopted. The first decisive steps have been taken to implement administrative reform, the task of which is to establish an effective governance system for the State when each official knows what specific work area he is responsible for. If Parliament had previously spent a great deal of time trying to find out political relations, today we have significantly increased the legislative work. During the seventh session of the Supreme Council, 748 bills were reviewed and adopted, with 748 more bills than during the sixth. I think I would be right if I took the courage to place the Supreme Council for the work done at the seventh session as a satisfactory assessment. That's all we've got. There was no lack of political level.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u10	Respectable colleagues, 2011 – the twentieth anniversary of Ukraine's independence, must become a year of opposition to the hope of our talented and hardworking people for a decent life. To achieve that goal, we will have to work hard and productively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u11	Thank you. Valerius Alexiyovich Baranov, faction of the People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u12	Deputies, the faction of the People's Party expresses its position on the key issues requiring its resolution in the following year. First. We are aware that there are no bright prospects for society within the existing framework of the State and all its former institutions. Second. We are convinced of the right path for systematic reforms to all economic, social development governance mechanisms that must fundamentally change the lives of Ukrainian civil society. And third. We express concern that failure to take operational measures, traditional local trampling, political populism and intrigue can once again turn us and the whole country into a new gulf of vanity and hopelessness. Today we have a chance to start a new year, bringing together all political forces. We can and must end the cracks and insults, forget the blockades and demagogies, focus our capacity on the immediate resolution of the problems of the common people. If we continue to stimulate the finding of the Ukrainian people in a state of persistent expectation of a free miracle and continue to deceive society with fables, there will be no result. And history will give us a well-deserved assessment. I'm going to bring to this place a beautiful Ukrainian saying that we often have, as people say, a reptile before, and someone else has a tongue. We all came together to plough. Then will come forth the fruits that are long-awaited. That's the whole point of our position. Now, on specific proposals and questions that people are asking, and the Government is still not answering. I wish to point out that any reforms will be perceived and supported if they are understood if their objective is clear and mutually beneficial. If the media are ready and convinced by the authorities to engage in this work. Regrettably, there has been an incredible number of insinuations, deceptions, populism and injustices that distort the essence of the reforms themselves and hinder this necessary process. We and society have no information on the list of forthcoming reforms, their priorities and substance, and the expected results. There is no single reform centre and a responsible person. Draft decisions are not discussed with professionals and practitioners, so they can repeat the history of the Tax Code. The staffing of the reform movement has not been addressed. There will definitely be no results with party staff at the local council level. Often the machines are made up of loyal but not professional personnel, and we see it on the ground. And they're the ones who have to make the most brilliant decisions. Reforms from above may be confined to incapacity from below. Political administrative posts should be divided, the impact of politicians on the selection and placement of staff should be reduced. Regrettably, ministries and departments do not consider it an obligation to organize and take responsibility for the implementation of their own and governmental decisions. There is a gap: the decision is made at the top, and it is not known and implemented at the bottom. After the adoption of the budget, it is time to analyse its shortcomings and begin the development of public programmes to reduce under-effective and under-earmarked costs, budget replenishment activities. The experience of many local governments is invaluable. It was a pity that no one had summarized it for many years, and it was a billion additional funds in the public budget. When Gosbudget was formed, it became clear that the Ukrainian authorities had never been able to finance the promised social programmes. They were richly multiplied and fruitful without considering the need to finance them. Moreover, inadequate assistance and complex calculation mechanisms have made the system cumbersome and ineffective. World experience answers all these questions. We should change everything this year, or we won't have it next year. We like to talk about attracting investment. But they were neither nor will they be until the authorities become predictable, the legislation is stable, and the rules are reasonable, at least. Today, even with proposals from international financial institutions, they do not come to us for a number of reasons: the first is corruption at all levels; the second is the lack of projects and business plans from local authorities. And if the first reason can only be overcome by the radical measures of the first person, there is no difficulty in training the process of creating and attracting extrabudgetary funds. The civilized world lives on the principles of local self-government, and we continue to ignore this important experience. And the last. Ten national projects are planned. They're known to us. One thing is not clear why national projects funded from Gosbudget do not have the most important – what may be our future and obvious, I mean agriculture. The future of Ukraine is in this regard. Then why its development is not a national priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u14	The faction of the People's Party calls upon all members of the people to join forces to carry out these and other tasks. That is what society expects of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. With regard to the proposals made in the presentations, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments, including with regard to the preparation of information, the provision of 100 drafts to the Ukrainian National Deputies for consideration of issues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because there has been criticism that has been proposed by the BUT-Paternity factions, and they have not been supported. I'd like to prepare information in the fractional section of the initiative. And I would like to inform you in advance that 50 percent of the issues raised by our distinguished colleague were considered in the absence of factions. Obviously, you have to argue your position, vote for your own bills, then you'll have a positive outcome. Next. Ladies and gentlemen, during the Conciliation Council, a proposal was made for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to listen to information from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Human Rights Council of the United States on the grounds of criminal offences and the detention of individuals, former government officials and officials. In this regard, two draft decrees have been drawn up by honorary colleagues. I'd like your attention if we could find a consensus solution, that is, agreed upon. I'm going to sound these draft regulations, my dear colleagues. First draft Order 5544 on the hearing of the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights in connection with political persecution of opposition parties and individual former high-ranking officials. And the second draft: “Hear on 12 January 2011 at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the information of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the grounds of criminal offences and the detention of individuals”. [[Registration number 7545]] The authors are Alexander Efraemov and Igor Sharov. Dear colleagues, I am making an offer to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Obviously, the first option, well, in advance, I can say it won't be voted out, because one minute, because the formulation already contains conclusions and estimates. The second draft of the decision, it's formulated more correctly and, I would say, even neutrally, but essentially it doesn't change that. As for the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. On Friday, as you know, from 10 to 11 a.m., the minister of the interior will answer the question of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine will then review the report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on the observance of human rights in Ukraine, which is a traditional report. 20 minutes to report, 20 minutes to question. I think if there's a need for the Supreme Council to speak from factions, we're going to make a special decision, including questions that are of concern and interest to the people's deputies, they're going to be answered. Because if we put two information together tomorrow when we consider one question, it'll be 10 minutes for each of us, 10 minutes for the answer, and we won't get anything. So the proposition is, let's support now one draft of the regulation. I would like to vote in favour of the second draft of the decree and ask the author to withdraw his draft decree so that this is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And tomorrow, by full procedure, according to article 240 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we will consider this issue, and on Friday we will consider another. So I would ask the factions to express their position on the proposals I have just made. Who's it gonna be? Please, from the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Roman Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we. First of all, your offer makes sense. If we can consolidate the hall around a certain formulation, reaching the goal, I think it's perfectly normal. It's the only thing. But our faction will be absolutely insistent. In the formulation of an alternative draft decision, it is a representative of the Attorney General's Office. We're still insisting that this be the Attorney General. In the event that the author of this legislative initiative agrees with this proposal, we are prepared to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u17	Thank you. Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We fully support -- this is our consolidated position -- with the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The Supreme Council votes in favour of the Attorney General's office in this room, so we invite the Attorney-General to this room by decree. For us, the point is not that important in the determining part, because our estimate of the founding part does not change. We think what's going on is political persecution, it's repression. This is our assessment, and we'll talk about it. The effective part is what should happen tomorrow. That's why we support the ruling of the alternative, but on one condition -- what my colleague Zvaric just said -- we invite you to the Attorney General's Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u19	Oleg Zarubinsky, please, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u20	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, if there's already a political evaluation in the draft decree, then there's no point in any kind of information at all, because in advance, the apiorium understands how this information is going to be treated. If colleagues want to understand the situation and if they want to be objective information, I think we should also formulate draft regulations in a way that is, let's say, correct. That's the first one. And the second. Vladimir Mihajlovich, there, regarding the annual report of the Authorized One, is also provided for under the Rules, 240 articles, in fact, from the committee responsible. That's why I'm asking you to take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u21	That's right. I thank you for this clarification. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov Then from the Communist faction Valentin Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! When we listened to the reasoning of our opposing colleagues on the floor, it became clear that form was important to them, not content. But if form is important, not content, then make a statement and point out your point of view. If we really want to listen to the professionals who are in the direction and understand their views on the processes that are taking place there, it is not necessary to give early political assessments, but it is necessary to invite the specialist who is responsible for the direction of the work, to listen to the room, to ask him questions and to draw his conclusions, based on the information we receive. We will therefore support an alternative draft decision on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u23	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if we really want the objectivity of the information that we would like to hear tomorrow, we do have to determine accordingly on the proposed drafts of the decrees of this, a very sharp, certainly question. So the Communist faction, Vladimir Mikhailovich, will support your proposed second draft of the ruling, I mean when we consider the issue of adoption and the main, first draft of the ruling. I've been ordered to do a second project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I have this proposal, so let's say that if the author agrees, he takes the first decision. Well, one minute, please, you listen to me until the end. So I'm going to put the second decision to the vote on the basis, and then I'm going to vote on the proposal that the information be given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Attorney-General. If supported, then we accept, if not, then the wording “direction of the Attorney General’s Office” will remain. And with a letter, I'm going to ask the Attorney General to carry out this ruling. So I think a compromise proposal should be supported if we want to get results and listen to that question. If not, let's turn this into a political process. Knowing how to deploy and consult on the phone and directly when communicating with the faction leaders, I made such a compromise offer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u26	Well, we can take a break by concluding a discussion of this issue, dear colleagues. Is such a proposal supported, or is it not? Please, Pavlovsky, the author of the draft Decision, and then Alexander Ephraim as the author of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, let us act according to the Rules. There are two decrees where the decision of the opposition is registered first, let's vote it. I don't understand. What's scary? Does the word "political persecution" frighten you? Thus, according to international human rights organizations, there are all signs of political persecution by representatives of the former government, members of the opposition party. For when Jury Lucenka is arrested, he is the leader of the opposition party, what is it called, rather than political persecution? When there's massive repression, when dozens of entrepreneurs on the Maidan are now being lured into an idiotic charge: damage to the pavement tiles for what's called a trotual terrorism. So what's this? This is political persecution for the intended, let us say so, attracting criminal articles. So I propose that we vote on the two articles in the order of their coming, and the first one was the opposition article. And call the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u28	Thank you. I think we better use the word "invitation." Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, do you have anything to say about the decision? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, one minute! All of it! All of it! Let's go to the vote. Now I'm going to announce two more draft regulations, and I'm going to put it to a vote according to the registration. First draft of the Decision on Hearing the Information of the Prosecutor General of Ukraine and the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights in connection with the political persecution of opposition parties and individual former seniors. Second draft of the Decision on Hearing Information from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on Grounds for Offences and Taking Up Individuals. I would like to point out that if a second prosecutor is supported, I will direct my letter to the Attorney-General that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposing that information be provided by the Attorney-General. Bo. I ask you once again, dear fellows, think about it, because if we break the votes now, the decision will not be taken. I'm betting on the vote first draft of Decree (registration number 7544). Author Andrew Pavlovsky. I read it again: “To listen to the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights in connection with the political persecution of opposition parties and individual seniors”. [[B in m in s a l in]] The vote is coming, please. [[10:45:36]] For-162 The decision is not taken. Please, Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u29	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want you to repeat what you said before the vote. There is no first ruling -- you put the next decision to the vote, an alternative, but you send a letter to the Attorney General asking him to be in the room in person tomorrow. If you repeat these words, we vote unanimously in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u30	I repeat that if the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes a decision, the second order is 7545, I will write to the Attorney-General's Office, inform him that the Supreme Council has taken the appropriate decision, and in the course of this discussion, I have made a proposal to the Attorney-General to provide this information. Is that the way it is? I am putting to the vote a draft decree on hearing information from the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the grounds for criminal offences and the detention of individuals. [[Registration number 7545]] Please vote. [[10:47:05]] For 408 Decision taken. Thank you, dear colleagues, for making the decision in compromise that we have made. Dear National Deputies, let us now consider the issues set out in the Tuesday 11th of January schedule. We need to put a number of bills into the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to join us. I would like to vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending Chapter XI of the Final Position of the Ukrainian State Procurement Act. [[on the provision of uninterrupted food in the Armed Forces and educational institutions]] Registration number 7542. Please vote. [[10:48:18]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, for that matter. On the Conciliation Board, the Cabinet of Ministers suggested that the Supreme Council consider the project, and today it was introduced. But since he wasn't registered, he didn't get on our schedule. But the issue was agreed upon unanimously at the Conciliation Council. So I ask the committee to consider it immediately so that at the evening meeting they can decide on the decision. Your consideration is now proposed for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. [[on the state-owned liquor and liquor industry, Ukrispirt]] Just a minute. Entry into the agenda 7414. [[government]] Please vote. Dear colleagues, calm down. [[10:49:37]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I missed Bill 7360, he stands here first. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the approval of the National Programme for the Development of the Ukrainian Mineral and Raw Materials for the period to 2010. [[7360]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[10:50:15]] For 302 Decision taken. Now, your honorary colleagues, the committee, if you look at it, we can look at it at the evening meeting. If there is a committee decision, we may consider it in accordance with the Rules at the evening meeting. Please don't interrupt. Now, honourable colleagues, on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act of Amendments to certain legislative acts on the improvement of the permit system in the field of economic activity and the application of administrative law. [[Registration number 7413]] Please vote. [[10:51:10]] For 297 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u31	After that, after that. Dear colleagues, the bill 7532 is now being proposed for inclusion in the agenda – to amend some Ukrainian legislation on public procurement. [[government]] Please vote. [[10:51:51:51]] For 241 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law 7534, on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the "Congregation for the Compulsory State Pension Insurance". [[on the cancellation of a mandatory state pension insurance from non-cash-sales transactions]] This is a project by the National Bank of Ukraine. About getting into the daytime. Please vote. [[10:52:37]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the point is that the exchange of currencies has not been recalculated to the Pension Fund for six months. We just have to bring this standard into line. So I'm voting on a motion to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. [[Registration number 7534]] Please vote. [[10:53:24]] For 232 We're back. I am voting on the proposal to include this bill in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:53:48]] For 230 Questions are included in the agenda. The committee suggests that we look at the evening session if there is a committee decision and a scientific and expert board. Please. Now, Your Honor, your point is that this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. [[on the characteristics of the State registration of central executive authorities]] We discussed this at the Conciliation Council. I am voting on the proposal to include this bill in the agenda. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. What's wrong? Dear colleagues, you're many, well, don't all yell at each other right away. [[10:54:40]] For 234 Questions are included in the agenda. Yes, I would ask the committee to prepare him immediately for consideration. Now, honourable colleagues, the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project is the Order to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the creation of the National Science Centre of the Institute of Cardiology of the Academy of Sciences of M.D. Strazeska, the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine and 125th anniversary of the birth of the Academy of Sciences of M.D. Strazesca. [[Registration number 7540]] Please vote. [[10:55:29]] For 334 Decision taken. Considering, well, one minute, I see you, considering the need to make this decision, I would ask the committee to consider it immediately so that we can accept it. If you look at it during the lunch break, we will consider it at the evening session. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the name of The Watchtower is the world’s, it’s really a brilliant doctor. And the fact that Ukraine has so much power on the backdrop of our bad and completely worthless corrupt medicine has such a center, it's beautiful. Because of this Committee on Culture and Spirituality, we discussed this candidature and this date. It is, Vladimir Mikhailovich, who was on that general list that was not voted on. As a result, there is no need for our committee to consider it for a second time. We support and propose to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. We will consider the evening session to follow the rules and vote. Because then we're going to have problems and mutual claims. No objections? For the evening meeting, the Secretariat, prepare this matter. Dear colleagues! Now we need one minute! Now we need to go directly to the consideration, the practical consideration, of the issues that are defined by the timetable. There is a desire to express your thoughts about further work, please write down for five minutes. One minute, please sign in. Yes, I'd like the names of the National Deputies. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u34	I ask you to give my word to my next-door neighbor, Sass, the deputy head of the Committee of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u35	Sergey Sass, First Deputy Head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wanted to draw your attention one more time. That the Supreme Council’s regulations have been the law for some time. In accordance with this Law, article 22, the order of the day’s session is approved by decree. 23 The article defines changes to the agenda of the Supreme Council’s day session. And part one says the following. “Additional issues by amending it may be included in the approved agenda.” And then, part two. The decision to be included in an all - day session, under the insistence of the subject of the legislative initiative, is considered by the majority, and is adopted by the majority of the Supreme Council. Where are the draft amendments to the agenda for the session?Oh, my God! Vladimir Mikhailovich, when will you stop harassing this unfortunate regulation?Oh, my God! Does the goal always justify the means? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u37	I think that when the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council will not demonstrate stupidity and run what he started in the session room. So you need to keep your mouth shut. I am acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we vote, by making decisions, changes to the order of the day session. So please don't look for fleas where they don't exist. Oleg Easy, non-fractional, please. Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, yesterday I registered the draft of the Decision on the Elimination of Political Persecution of Tax Actors. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I asked you to include it in the agenda, and you refused to talk to me about the fact that it had not been a month since the registration had not been reviewed by the committee. Today you include in the order of the day laws that are registered only today. So you're refusing me to consider the draft decree, and people are sitting down, and it's the work of the Supreme Council that has raised millions of people to protest. And because they went out to protest, they were put in jail today. And you refuse to consider this decree even on the day of the opposition, and the bills to the government, the MPs' lobbyists, you today include them in the agenda. I ask you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, not to show double approaches depending on which questions the MPs raise. When it comes to protecting people, that's not what the Supreme Council is capable of.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u39	Thank you. I answer to my honorary colleague right away. Yesterday you just registered a draft ruling. One minute! When the Conciliation Board decides, I will do the Conciliation Board's will. As the committee decides, the matter will be considered immediately. No - in a month it will be submitted for review as required by the Rules. Yesterday there was a solution to these questions, which I put to the vote, agreed to by all the members of the Conciliation Council, so the claim. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u40	Please. Tonight, please, the faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u41	Evening, faction of Party regions. I give the floor to the deputy Chechev Mikhail Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u42	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u43	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank the opposition for the constructive beginning of our day. Since, even in the course of the discussion, I would say, such a politically harsh question about the information of the Attorney-General's Office, we found a compromise when we simply deviated from our political passions, from our party positions and pushed ourselves away from the objective reality, based on the interests of the State. It was hoped that today and this week would continue in such a constructive spirit that we would look at drafts that today would not seem to be so social-explosive, resonant, perhaps unattractive to the media. This is the normal, routine work of Parliament, which ensures the vitality of the country. On the agenda of socio-economic issues relating to financial and economic activities. Therefore, you will end the proposal in the same constructive spirit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u44	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u45	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I would like to draw your attention to what the new year has begun, and there have already been cases in the past year of non-payment, including in Odessa City, in health-care workers and so on, in which there are very few wages. And now we're including projects that are completely unthinkable. For example, that project to make changes to the collection of compulsory state pension insurance, where transactions in the sale of non-cash foreign currency for a purse are excluded. The rationale is that this is for the Memorandum of Understanding on the Economic and Financial Policy of the Stand-by Programme. Instead, we're not talking about denunciation of the Cyprus Agreement, where there are actually costs, and in other offshore areas. These are the main priority issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts about our further work. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin raised a very important issue regarding the ratification of treaties. I ask the committees, first of all the foreign affairs committee, to prepare all the documents that are available for closure this week. We've discussed this, let's not discuss it. Dear colleagues, I propose to you a bill amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[on the legal framework for the activities of national broadcasters]] [[Registration number 7036]] There is a proposal from the committee to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[11:03:55]] For 177 Decision taken. The reporter is Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio and Yuri Plaxyuk, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information by Helen Bondarenko. Please. You've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u47	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, we have a draft Act amending article 14, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, prepared by the State Television Committee. The current part of article 14 on television and radio broadcasting, which stipulates that the statutes of the National Television Company, the National Radio Company of Ukraine are approved by law, do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Master Code of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property. The National Television Company, the National Radio Company, was created according to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of February 20, 1995, and are state - owned enterprises. Paragraph 1 of the Law on the Management of State Enterprises provides that the administration is carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers or by the central executive branch of the Cabinet of Ministers. In this regard, the bill aims to improve the legal principles of national television companies. The bill provides for the deletion of part four of article 14 of the Television and Broadcasting Act. It has to be said that the adoption of Ukrainian law removes the coalitions in existing legislation and allows the legal framework of the national television company, the national radio company, to speed up the conduct of public broadcasting. I would also like to point out that since 2006, since the time, so that the adoption of this norm has not been the subject of any bill that the Supreme Council would have tabled to implement this article -- article 14, paragraph four. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u48	Thank you. Have a seat. Also. Olena Anatolyevna Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u49	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Profile Committee considered the bill and adopted a political decision. The point is that if we delete the article now that the statutes of the National Television and Television Company are excluded from the law, we may not have a very good situation with you, even in the formation of the statute, when the Cabinet of Ministers exerts a great influence on the National Television and Television Company. Therefore, the decision of the relevant committee to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u51	Can you pass Tomenkov on, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u52	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I think it's not a very pleasant story, because the Supreme Council is proposing to legalize the illegal actions that have taken place during the previous period. That is, in order to free the directors of the National Radio Company and the TV Company without claiming any claims of professional character or other, the Cabinet of Ministers changed the statute to its own judgment, and the statute can only be approved by the Supreme Council, liberated the President of the National Radio Company Viktor Ivanovich Nabruska, the head of the National Television Company, and now they realize that any submission to the Court is illegal, they propose to the Supreme Council with a backlog that the Supreme Council has no bearing on the National Radio Company that the Cabinet of Ministers can do all of this, and thus legitimize their actions that took place a year ago. I think from the point of view of television independence, it's a statute. The Supervisory Board should be approved by the Supreme Council, not by the Cabinet of Ministers, because today it is. What we're seeing on the First National Channel, I saw that we're already going to have a new program -- a political talk show. And in the first program, these runaway Russian journalists are invited because, you know, the soul is in pain for Russian journalism, they have nowhere to go. Well, let's make a channel for Russian journalists at First National for state funds, and they'll talk about Russian peace and everything. So I don't think the Supreme Council can take responsibility for information policy. This is our task under the Constitution, by law. So I support the position of the committee on the rejection of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u54	National MP Landik, please microphone, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u55	Thank you. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information has decided to recommend that the Supreme Council reject this bill, based on the fact that the closing rule on availability in national television and radio company statutes approved by law, the Cabinet of Ministers does not offer an alternative to who should then approve these statutes. The committee met to discuss the matter. On the one hand, the correction of this rule removes the legislature, on the other hand, the existence of this rule gives more freedom to the national television company and is actually the first step in the way of social speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u56	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I absolutely share the point of view expressed today by Mr. Nicholas Tomenko. And I don't think the Supreme Council of Ukraine is using its control powers at all. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like you to note that not even the committee laws have been repealed -- well, they haven't decided to cancel yet -- where the Supreme Council's control powers are foreseen, or article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides for the supervisory powers of the Supreme Council and the committees. So in my opinion, the committee's opinion is wise, which is now expressed in this rostrum. This is the first time. Secondly, we need to think about what is being done and what is essentially the National Radio Company. Obviously, it has something to do with this nation, with Ukraine, and obviously, the leadership has to know both the Ukrainian language and everything else. So maybe for all foreigners to be there, that's what we're going to do and remove it from the law now? That's why I think the Cabinet of Ministers' actions in this part are brutal and they need to be punished. I think that by any action or choice of those, if you'll excuse me, in the Christmas tree or the Christmas tree, it's common to say, in the state language they say "elka" today, yes. That's what's on the tree. Milka's ad. People are good, what are you paying for? Why do you call our Ukrainian children "milka"? What about the other sugars? Ukrainians? Look, there's "Milka" on your central tree, and it's all national. Therefore, this law cannot be adopted, but let us make a decision with the elks. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The committee proposes to reject the bill. I think it's the right decision of the committee at this point. Moreover, as our colleague Landik rightly pointed out, it is not clear who will determine the order of approval of the statutes of the organization in question, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had previously done so. But according to the Rules, I'm proposing the adoption of the bill, registration number 7036. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:13:08]] For 1 The decision is not taken. It can't be again. I suggest we turn it around. One minute! To return this bill to the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[11:13:41]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Concept of State Information Policy is under review. The committee proposes such a Rules of Procedure for dealing with the issue, which is where ours is needed. You agree: for the report, five minutes, for the answer to a question, five minutes, for a co-report, five minutes and three minutes, for discussion and decision-making, 10 minutes. Let's write it down for at least 15 minutes. No objections? Is there no objection to such a procedure? You got it? Please invite the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Radio Plaxyuk Yuri Alexandrovich to report. The focal point will be the chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Andrew Vitaliyovich Shevchenko. You have five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u59	Thank you. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The draft Law on the Concept of State Information Policy sets out the main orientations, principles and principles of the state information policy of Ukraine, the mechanism for its implementation. The implementation of the law will create an opportunity to form a single information space, information sovereignty, facilitate the building of a developed information society in Ukraine as an organic segment of a global information society, ensure the realization of constitutional rights to freedom of speech and free access to information, which is an important priority for the development of national information resources, infrastructure, the introduction of new information technologies, the protection of information security and social morality. The committee agreed, conducted, more faithfully, a broad public discussion of the bill. Today, the legal bases for information activities are defined by the Ukrainian National Programme Act, the Information Programme, the basic principles for the development of information society in Ukraine for 2007-2015. These laws have a technological orientation. In addition, according to Derzkomteladio, the definition of the law for just a certain period of time is unacceptable to the basic principles of state information policy, as previously envisaged. We therefore believe that the implementation of Ukraine's law will contribute to the further order and systematization of the information space and legislation of Ukraine, it will be a logical component of information legislation, it will serve as a legal guide for improving the legislative framework for activities of both domestic and foreign media. Please support and accept the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a question to the chairman of the committee. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you. As you plan to practically implement the information sovereignty of Ukraine through the influence of the media, including regional media, because now, especially in the last six months, it is happening in regional television and radio companies. I'm talking about a solid offensive to absolutely everything Ukrainian that exists, except the consumption of Ukrainian budget funds. It goes to the hurrah, and that's how it's planned to go further. How do you plan to do that in this concept, and how do you actually plan to do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u62	Thank you. The proposed concept as a bill, as a law, envisions an increase in the impact of the legislative framework in force and the work of new legislation on the problems that you have encountered. As far as regional, local radio organizations are concerned, the state broadcasters present in the Derzcomteleradio system fully adhere to Ukraine’s current legislation on television and radio broadcasting, regarding private television companies. They are controlled by the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio and a number of information which, according to the Television Act, also about advertising and antitrust restrictions and property rights, control their functioning. The problem is, of course, that we have some variation in our laws today. I think that this concept will allow a clear definition of the field of activity of each bill and of each subject, the subject of the information sphere.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u63	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear Yuri Alexanderovich, I think in this room it is clear to everyone that the need for the development and adoption of the Concept of State Information Policy does not call into question and that this must have been done long ago and should have been done in time, because that is the problem. But I have a question, from the point of view of my committee, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Today, in post-crisis conditions, the issue of population information, not comments, not a flying show, not a variety of entertainments, as Carmazin said, "with the soft and the trees," is becoming extremely acute, and it is informational space. Tell me, please, the problem of creating a single national information space, give us a few arguments that would indicate that with this concept we will eventually provide reliable, objective and true information about what is going on in society, what the social consequences are going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u65	Thank you. The concept, as a law, it won't have direct action, it will in principle exist as an information code, which, in fact, you said correctly, had long been accepted. It simply obliges entities that control valid legislation, and it is quite extensive, and it is regulated, regulated, and regulated by more than 12 laws. It is primarily an obligation to put order in advertising. Secondly, order the social language. As far as social speech is concerned, I must say that the thematic plans of the state’s radio companies are being developed today. And it puts first the issue of providing the socio-unprotected population with the necessary and necessary information: pension reform, tax reform and all the other acts that you have adopted today and which you will consider. It's pretty important. And the main thing is that this concept will give it the opportunity to be an entity, that is, a television organization, to know its potential and its field of activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u66	Yes, Yuri Prokopchuk, BUT faction, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u67	Yuri Prokopchuk, Equality, “BUT – Fatherhood”. Dear report, one of the tasks of this concept is to prevent the monopolization of the media, such as television and radio talk – concentration in one hand. We know when individual owners have multiple channels, and that's where only the totals or television shows or the political shows that we've talked about are coming from. We know a five-channel war with TV, with those that don't fit into today's concept of state information policy. That's my question. Will this be taken into account, by the way, whether representatives of the opposition forces and the parliamentary forces and who are outside Parliament will be able to have a guaranteed presence on these channels, proving their point of view different from that of power? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u68	Thank you. The concept is also binding on the Antimonopoly Committee, and the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting, including the Democratic People's Republic of Ukraine, is meant to strengthen the television law on antimonopoly restrictions. Because the concept defines certain terms for which this should happen, and about the meaning of the monopolization of the ether will also be reviewed today. And there are already bills that will allow it to focus the area of television and radio broadcasting, the resources of television and television radio resources and concentrate them, so, in part into the public, under the control of the public, and what will be done with the introduction of social broadcasting is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u69	Yes, thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Andrew Vitaliovich Shevchenko Please state the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the adoption of this bill as a basis. What were we guided by? First of all, we think there's a point to welcoming the very purpose of the Statetelleradio and the Ukrainian government to put forward priorities and guidelines for the development of the information sphere. It's really important for the country to, you know, say, not to the left-hand side. When we talk today about the need for social talk, and tomorrow we are taking steps that limit the independence of public speakers, today we are talking about the need for dissipation, and tomorrow we are strengthening the budget press and distorting competition in the market. So the priorities, the directions, they're very right. What is the focus of the criticism of the bill? There are many comments from lawyers that remind us of the 85th article of the Constitution, which provides a comprehensive list of the powers of the Supreme Council. I remind you that as the Supreme Council, we can adopt laws, do other things. There is no such thing as acceptance of the concept among our powers. So I think there's a question here for discussion between lawyers. As far as the substance of the bill is concerned, I think it is exactly what the government and Ukrainian authorities intend to do to develop an information area, such as: create social language, dissipate the budget press, ensure the unhindered access of Ukrainian citizens to information, bring Ukrainian laws to European standards and European legislative models. That is why our committee decided to meet with the State Committee on Television and Radio and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to support the adoption of such a concept. With the support of the bill, all representatives of all the factions represented on the committee expressed themselves. My committee colleagues can complete it. I think that's a very good example of how different political powers can work together on the strategic issues facing the Supreme Council. The position of the committee to support this bill as a basis. We believe that it will help build a successful medium that deals with high standards of journalism, honest, fair competition, and freedom of speech. Hopefully, this document will be useful. The committee's position is to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u71	Thank you. What about the question? Three minutes, we agreed. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the committee head? Please sign up then. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u72	Andrey Vitaliyovich, I have just been told that this bill will allow high standards of journalism to be formed. That is the question. And what standards of journalism, I'm asking you as a journalist as a former and active journalist, the person who writes today may be talking about, for example, when we open any website, yes, and one swearing, some mating not only in blog posts, but even in the materials of people who call themselves authors. I've worked for years as a journalist, you've been working, you can't even imagine having someone put on a banal mat. Now it's completely, completely and nobody's reacting to it. Why your committee doesn't use it, doesn't make any proposals for changes to legislation, etc. Why when a person writes in a newspaper, he is brought to trial, and on the Internet, God knows what is done, and they shout, as you can see, they limit freedom of speech. I mean, when you curse a person, you humiliate him, you call him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. Oleg, I understand the context of your question and why you're asking. I think that, in fact, the moral-ethic stuff in journalism is a very important story. In all of this, I think that in a situation of total entanglement of rights and freedoms, it's much more important for us not to harm or do anything that would limit freedom for journalists. As far as the Internet is concerned, the concept of the Internet mentions twice. In particular, the government declares its wish to bring the country's Internet segment according to, in accordance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, Fundamental Freedoms, and the State and Government in the concept speak of the need to ensure effective protection of the information sovereignty of Ukraine, including the country's Internet segment. I would say cautiously that the Internet remains an island of freedom. And we should, as the Supreme Council, do everything we can to get the state involved in the Internet. We understand that there are complex moral-ethic issues. But they have to be regulated by internal-tech journalistic mechanisms, not by repressive laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u74	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u75	Your Honor, Your Honor, Andrew! Of course, we need to support the concept bill. The next step, obviously, is to adopt the law on the basis of this concept. I have a question for you. Or in any small way, this concept will affect a situation that is very clearly following today. The Cabinet of Ministers is ignoring the previous law. An example. He wants to completely ignore the Supreme Council and appoint whoever they want. And this has already led to something being thrown off the air, such as my program, which was going on for eight years, "20 minutes with Vladimir Yavorowski." About 40,000 letters came for her. She was thrown out without any explanation. Just like the Vladimir Panchenka program. So everything patriotic that was on the national radio is now literally being washed away. Is this going to help at least a little bit of this concept that I and the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc are voting for today?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u76	Volodymyr Alexanderovich, well, we're both optimistic and realistic, aren't we? We understand that any beautiful declaration should be followed by concrete steps. We trust that the Ukrainian authorities and the Ukrainian Parliament will continue to act on this concept. I absolutely share your concern about many of the things that are happening in both Ukrainian and Ukrainian journalism in general. At the same time, the position of our profile committee is unanimous. All valid declarations have to be made. And these right declarations should be followed by concrete steps. Many of these things are completely in the hands of the Supreme Council. You know, this week we're going to be looking at the draft Public Information Access Act, the new edition of the Information Act, developed with public organizations, with activists. The time has come for us to make the right declarations, including in the information field.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u77	Thank you. Time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. We made a deal with you, 15 minutes. Please sign up for a discussion. Please. 15 minutes we've agreed, all of us. Just a minute. The faction has now been signed up for Oleg Zarubinski, please. Then there's Mikola Kulczynski. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. You will, won't you? Then Michael Tomenko will come out of the faction, then we'll sign up from the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u78	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues. I'd split it into two blocks. From the point of view of legal purity of the proposed project, and from the point of view of content. The chairman of the committee correctly noted that, and he didn't say that, and this was the first scientific expertise to point out that there was a problem with the status of the document. I disagree with the idea that the Supreme Council cannot endorse such a document as a concept. It can be approved, and there have already been examples of them that relate to the areas of regulation of other issues in our country, in society. The question here is another. Will it have this approval, or will this concept have the status of law? Do you understand? If the Constitution does not include everything in the list that the Supreme Council may accept. So I think there's a question, let's say, a legal question. But the fact that the Supreme Council has both the right and the concept and the program to approve is a fact. Now for the content. If I come out of the goals set by the authors of this document, I see no obstacles to his support, either in the first reading. See: the formation of a single national information space. Everyone says he's missing in Ukraine, and that's the truth. And we are witnesses to that. The only national information space, unfortunately, has not yet been formed, due to different circumstances, but it is a fact. [[and objective, and subjective]] A very important second position, or position, or goal. Approval of Ukraine’s Information Sovereignty And here, I think that the information security issue should have been more reflected in this concept, more vividly, because the information security of Ukraine for today is not guaranteed, and that is true. And it's not just about television, but it's about other areas, because the question of information policy is not just about mass media, by the way. Right? And as you're right about it, the developers are saying that it's a form of information infrastructure. So with information security, I'm stressing this, there are serious problems in Ukraine. By the way, there are dangers from different borders and from different sides, not just from one or the other, as they wish to say. Indeed, there is little time for this talk, for the document is very broad and applies to many things. But I'd like to talk to you now, what's there, 20 seconds about that. There was a fine statement by the committee’s head on the Internet as an island of freedom today. Unfortunately, there is no more. Because there are specially coordinated groups, hundreds of people, so-called commentators, who simply take the position of their political power, their headquarters, and only when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u79	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u80	I'm sorry about that. I'm gonna try to say it in a literary way. I'm gonna fucking pour these shits. And they just sit on it and have money from political headquarters. And you know that very well. Therefore, the Internet is not an island of freedom today. The information concept can be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u81	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u82	My dear colleagues, I am of the opinion that there is no state policy in the information field in Ukraine that protects the Ukrainian state and protects the Ukrainian nation that created this state. I understand that today, if there is any information policy, this information policy is being implemented, based on the fact that the Ukrainians are a national minority in their country because of the presence of Ukrainian history, culture, tradition, language and respect for the Ukrainian state in a relationship, if you take the central channels, so that we Ukrainians are 5 or 3. Maybe someone got some new information as a result of some secret census that dropped the Ukrainians, and it became 2 or 3 percent. But if a foreigner comes to our country and looks at the central channels, of course he will see where the country where the Ukrainians live, because there is someone else living in this country. So I think there should be a public information policy, but of course I have great doubts about who will carry it out, even if we accept this concept. With all due respect to the State Committee on Television and Radio Affairs, it would be normal for me to do something else. Because decisions are taken without the influence of the State Committee, either by the owners of channels buried in Cyprus, the British, the Virgin Islands and other islands, or by so - called informal facilities, when they meet at the President’s Administration for consultations and determine what to do during one week or another. So it's the owners of the channels that we have, so to speak, the source of information policy and the officials that determine what information policy should be. Look at how we lived from New Year's to Christmas. Is that Ukrainian information policy? Where was Ukraine in the information space during this period? I don't know who's writing statements to the President of Ukraine, but it's not like we've forgotten that we and the Greek Catholics have already been eliminated as a class because they've decided that we have the only Russian Orthodox peace left. So I think this is an object, this concept is an object, to look at this immorality that prevails in the information space. And when it comes to a document, of course it shouldn't be that statistical. Well, chapter one, how many channels do we have? Does the concept have to say how many channels and how many percent of newspapers? There should be general principles and tools in the concept of how to do this, and not a request to make changes to the law, but a clear formula that should work later in the law. Because if we accept first reading, it's neither cold nor hot information policy. So I think it's only necessary to approve for reasons only in order to make, in fact, a national Ukrainian document before the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the National MPs to sign up for the speech. May I have the names of the national deputies? Jaroslav Suhi. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u84	I'd like to give it to Vladimir Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u85	Vladimir Landik. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u86	Thank you. I support this bill, but I do not support some of my colleagues who have a political connection to the bill. The implementation of Ukraine's law will make it possible to form a single national information space and establish information sovereignty, contribute to the building of a developed information society in Ukraine as an organic segment of a global information society, ensuring the realization of constitutional rights to freedom of speech and free access to information. That's what this bill will do. And what we're talking about is politics in this room, but it doesn't apply to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u87	Oleg Zarubinski. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u88	Thank you. At Oleg's request, I give him my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u89	Thank you, Reverend Oleg Alexandrovich. I also believe that this document should be supported. But a very important question is what is "state information policy." Yes, when, for example, a national MP visits voters and then the local newspaper reports on the last page next to the obituaries. State newspaper. Please tell me, what is this state information policy? On the last one. What difference does it make, whether it's the opposition or the power? But we're all national MPs, and when an MP comes to the last page next to an obituary, and in front of the ad, the back pages of television, and so on, that's state policy. Or, for example, there are no visits at all. Or it is three months after the Supreme Council’s rostrum has declared it. I mean, it's very important that the normal idea that we're looking at in the hall today is that it's made into a practical life. And why did I ask Mr. Zarubinski to speak? To support the subject he raised from the Internet. Andrew, colleague, Shevchenko, I'm addressing you. You know I've always been for freedom of speech. But freedom of speech is not permissiveness, it's not anarchy, it's not impunity when any person in this room, outside this hall, any simple person, for, excuse me, 100 dollars is dirty -- and you have to be washed away, and no one is responsible for it, because the media, the electronic media, have a record of registration, are acting in accordance with the Media Act, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, which envisions the right to privacy. And electronic media is not the media at all. They don't register anywhere, they don't answer for anything. You can be called in the last word, you go to court, and the court says, "No, it's not an electronic media, there's no registration certificate, there's nothing, and that's why the person is not responsible for anything." So I think these issues need to be framed, not persecuted, not limited to freedom of speech. But, excuse me, when journalists who have no basic responsibility for words that speak when they do not remember the words of classicals that can kill a word in certain cases, they call themselves journalists, who are actually killers, not journalists. And I'm saying, a person who's worked in journalism for many years, and I know what a responsibility for a word is, especially when you criticize someone, don't bring God, you insult them, and today you can do anything and not answer for it. This is Parliament's job to protect citizens' rights to their dignity, so that the person, if you'll excuse me, will not be called into question in the last words, without being held accountable. That must be the policy of the state. And there's no limit to freedom of speech. It's not about restrictions on freedom of speech, it's about respect for the Constitution that gives.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u90	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u91	which gives every human being the right to be respected and respected, regardless of what he or she does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u92	Mikola Sherschun, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u93	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, this is the Concept, as I believe, is a strategically important document for Ukraine. We have long needed a consistent information policy. Not only has the information society started to form in Ukraine, but the state itself is becoming increasingly involved in the processes of the world’s information space. Therefore, we must be balanced in representing our own interests. It's a good thing that the concept takes into account two important aspects, firstly, the principles of state information policy will help promote. Polarize Ukraine in the international arena, as other nations of the world do, for example, provide positive information about countries to the world’s information agencies. And secondly, Ukrainian society is not protected from public awareness manipulation, especially by foreign media, so it's important to take care of strengthening information sovereignty, which is what the Concepts are all about. So I feel it is necessary to support it in the first reading and to work seriously on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u94	Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u95	Please give the floor to the people's rostrum, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u97	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Chevchenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to what a very important document is being considered first. And secondly, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm drawing your attention to, let's say, not exactly the state-level position of head of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, who, you see, has not seen in article 85 of the Constitution that the Supreme Council can accept the Concept. But let him call it the principles or the program, and to the content of Bordenyuk, what should he say? Nothing to the content of this document, a very serious document, I rarely say good things when they come out of the signature of Mikolia Azarov. Well, unfortunately, yes. As for this concept, you can say that principles or programs, as we'll call it in the second reading, can be said with good words. It's really not bad, although the priorities, let's say, of providing information sovereignty is in the last place, should be put in advance. Very serious proposals for the implementation of public information policy by amending the Television and Radio Act (as regards the prohibition of the creation of the activities of those who. where the founders are non-residents of Ukraine registered in offshore areas. I'd like us to add here and add that foreign citizens have to be limited. Remember the old law: we were limiting the percentage there, then we removed it, now it has to be limited. No country in the world allows the citizens of Israel or Switzerland to determine the country’s information policy. That's why these were New Year's holidays, and that's why they have this information policy on these channels. That is why we have to adopt this law as a foundation or as a foundation or as a program, because it belongs within the limits of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is subject to the approval of the law. And then all the laws have to be adopted on the basis of these basic principles, as we'll call them. Because of this. It's an absolute Ukrainian product. I think this document, and it has to be accepted, I agree with the committee's point of view, which has expressed its wish and expressed its view that it should be accepted, and I want to thank its developers, but I want to change the emphasis, not to be afraid that we are a single, sovereign state, and we have to provide the information sovereignty of Ukraine with all possible means, including through the influence of the media on society in order to become a strong, independent state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the draft Law on the Concept of State Information Policy as a basis. The main scientific and expert office does not support the proposed bill. I am here with solidarity and agreement with Yuri Carmazin on what should be brought to the attention of the committee. A major scientific and expert management for an informal approach to drafting drafts. It is not the committee's business to evaluate, they should essentially evaluate the document and make appropriate recommendations to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask the Chief of the Apparatus to clear up and report on this matter. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Concept of State Information Policy. [[Registration number 7251]] Please vote. Science-expert management, I said. [[11:48:52]] For 315 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider Bill 7133 – amending the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement. [[on the provision of training and participation in sports competitions and actions at the all-Ukrainian and international levels]] Along with that, one of the coauthors of the law will speak with Michael Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, our sports group, I mean those MPs who are actively concerned with the development of sports, physical culture, in the form of: Tomenko, Korge, Volkov, Tedeev, Jereshko and others, at the end of the year, responded to the Federation's proposals to simplify their lives in preparation for the actions of the All-U.S. International level, all other sports are meant. Instead, the government has offered its approach, and they are proposing to us in a general bill to foresee and simplify life not only to sports federations but also to other organizations. So our team of authors is asking us to finally agree with the government on a common position, and today to move the bill into agreement with the government's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to postpone the consideration of the draft Law on the Implementation of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement in connection with the need to finalize the bill, to reconcile it with the government. Please vote. [[11:50:41]] For 293 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on State support for charitable activities is under consideration. At the same time, there is a request from the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, which proposes to withdraw Bill 6024 from its consideration and to delay its consideration of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality conclusions on the draft Law on Charity and Charity Organizations. [[Registration number 6343]] To look at it together. Is there no objection? Then I am voting on the postponement of the draft Law in connection with the committee’s proposal. [[Registration number 6024]] To reconcile this bill with other legislative acts. Please vote. [[11:51:56]] For 303 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Act amending article 133-2 of the Code of Administrative Offences (for the protection of the national car carrier from unfair competition by foreign companies (caboteral transport) (registration No. 4108). The committee suggests that this issue be examined in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:52:36]] For 217 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Valerius Grigorovich Kamchatny. Who from the committee will be speaking? It says here that Victor Schemchuk. I'm asking you to identify yourself as a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u101	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The point in this bill is that we are proposing with our colleague Feldman to take further steps to protect our native car carrier or our domestic carriers from the so-called cabotage transport, that is, those that are carried out inside our country by means of means of transport registered in other countries and those that do not have the right permission. Today, the fine for such transportation is between 340 and 1 thousand,700 dollars. That certainly is not a measure that really allows such foreign motorists to be seriously ordered. We propose to increase the amount of the fine and thus protect, make more protection for our domestic motorists. I can say, for example, that in neighboring countries, let's say that in Poland, there are hundreds of times more similar fines than those provided for in our Code of Administrative Offences. Please be supportive. And with the comments given by the Scientific and Expert Office, we agree, and we can take them into account when we work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u102	Thank you. So from the committee, who's going to report? There is a committee decision that proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Please sign up. Who insists on discussing the matter? Oleg Zarubinski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u103	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. I'm very fast. I just wanted to draw the attention of the drafters of the bill that the idea is absolutely correct and correct and the philosophy itself is the right thing to do, to help its carriers, not the strangers. By the way, tomorrow we have an interesting bill on the elimination of any certification, the standardization of imported food. I think it's all going in the same river. So as far as this bill is concerned, it needs to be supported. But I had a question for the developers. This is not about cabotage transport. The title says “kabotage transports”. This term is never used in the body of the bill itself. It's about international automobiles, and these are different things. Is that right? Yes. So this is essentially going to have to be eliminated, otherwise it's not clear what the law is about. And the essence of it, philosophy, is the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the bill, as a basis. [[Registration number 4108]] [[11:56:19]] For-51 The decision is not taken. I am voting for re-reading Bill 4108. Please identify yourself. [[11:56:42]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 5189 is the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution. [[on the capital repair of apartments]] It is proposed that the current law be supplemented by the word “renovation of own dwellings and apartments”, that is to say the addition of “houses” and, in view of this, the decision to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u105	And all we need to do is make changes to the “Final Positions”. It reads: “From January 1, which is the next year of its adoption.” I mean, if we vote like this, it'll be January 1st, 2012. Shall we vote like this? No objections? The committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole. No objections? I'm asking that we consider this now and then take a break. I am voting on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and in the whole of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution. [[on the capital repair of apartments]] Please vote. Please vote. [[11:58:19]] For 128 The decision is not taken. Then the next proposal is to accept the bill as a basis, and then look at what to do with it. I ask you to vote, Your Honor, on acceptance of What? [[B in m in s a l in]] What? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, it's not, so I can't look.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u106	I don't know, I don't have anyone. Well, please, Mikola Kulczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! The bill is very simple and there is nothing to vote for, as it touches people who have suffered severe suffering in Nazi camps. A total of 83 people. This is a very small allocation of funds from the government budget. It is about what the previous bill says “hots”, not the word “hots”. The drafters specify this concept of "hots," that's all. 83 persons. Why don't we vote in favour? The committee proposes to vote on the basis as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I am voting for a return to the draft bill, a return to the review of Bill 5189, a return. Please vote. [[12:00:02]] For 328 We're back. Now, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal. The committee said it was 83 people. What is more, it comes into effect on January 1, 2012. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of the draft law on the basis and in general, please vote. [[12:00:38]] For 338 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u109	Yes, dear colleagues, please come into the session room so that we can continue our work. As long as the MPs are drawn here, I provide you with information, honourable colleagues, that there is an exhibition in the third-floor towers “The Supreme Council of Ukraine 2010 in book editions and photographs”. I would like to visit to see how each of the deputies and generally the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been crowned in history. in the field of their activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u110	It's tomorrow, isn't it? Yeah. And I'm being informed that we're still opening an exhibition of “Jews in the Life of Ukraine”, right? In Ukrainian life, I would ask during the break of the national MPs, if there is a wish, to get acquainted with this exhibition. Yes, Your Honor, it is suggested that you consider the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the order of delivery of court notices. [[Registration number 4508]] The committee suggests that this issue be examined in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:33:29]] For 158. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Correspondent is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee, Vadim Vasilovich Kolesnichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! In practice, a number of court cases have been dealt with for various reasons that are dependent and independent of judges. The judicial burden causes dissatisfaction with citizens and gives them numerous appeals to the European Court of Human Rights for a violation of the right to a trial during a reasonable period guaranteed by the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. As a result, I will not tell you how many difficulties, and how often, and how long these matters are being dealt with. We've done the analysis. However, 50.9 percent of cases are delayed each year because of the lack of witnesses or victims. One reason for delaying court proceedings in connection with the failure to appear at a court hearing is the timely or improper delivery of mail messages and messages to them by businesses. The practice of the courts of general jurisdiction shows that about 50 percent of mail - sent court challenges do not meet the procedural objective of sending them due to improper service. Because of this, I propose, and along with the people's deputies: Kravchenko, Bondik, Lithuania, Shadow, Sokolovi, we propose in the new part of article 17 of the Post Office Act 5 to determine the time limit for the postal operators to deliver the messages and messages that contain the court messages and messages, namely, during the period from the time they arrive at the linkage. The Criminal Procedure Code is proposed to be supplemented by a new article 254 prime. on court notices and messages, how they are sent and delivered. The changes in other articles of the Code are due to the proposed introduction. It also provides for a draft law on the assignment of the Cabinet of Ministers within a month from the date of the entry into force of the law to amend and supplement its legislation on the rules on the provision of postal services in Ukraine with.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u112	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u113	Thank you. In order to define a mechanism for the provision of communications to businesses in accordance with the requirements of the current procedural legislation of Ukraine, and to ensure the harmonization of the regulatory and regulatory acts of the central executive authorities in the field of communications and technical, financial and other judicial activities. Because of this, honourable national MPs, I ask you to accept this completely unpoliticized document that will facilitate the work of the administration of justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u114	Yes, thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, too. Vadim Vasilovich Kolesnichenko, head of the Committee on Justice. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice at its meeting on 12 May this year reviewed the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the procedure for the delivery of court notices submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Karmazin, Kravchenk, Bondik, Lithuania, Senchenk and Sokolovi. [[Registration number 4508]] The project is aimed at ensuring that enterprises properly comply with the requirements of procedural legislation regarding the order of delivery and the delivery of court challenges, returning reports of their service to the court in order to prevent the court from delaying trials as a result of the failure of the parties to a court hearing. At the same time, it is important to note that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine do not support the bill, and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine supports some comments. In particular, in its expert opinion, Minfin points to an increase in the spending of the state budget on the payment of the post office operator’s services by delivery and delivery of court notices and messages. Mintransvest and Minniest stress the contradictions of some of the bill’s provisions to international law, such as the World Postal Union and the international treaties of Ukraine. In the light of what has been said, the Justice Committee considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, as a basis in the first reading, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the procedure for the delivery of court messages submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputies: Karmazin, Kravchenk, Bondik, Lithuania, Senchenk and Sokolovi. [[Registration number 4508 from 20.05.2009]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u116	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u117	Well, if you don't want to discuss it. There are no wanters. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the order of delivery of court notices. [[Registration number 4508]] Please vote. [[12:39:15]] For-56 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a second proposal to re-read the bill. [[12:39:37]] For-25 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being submitted to your consideration. [[on rights relating to the property of minors and the prevention of corruption in the granting of custody and care permits]] [[Registration number 6189]] The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[12:40:18]] For 201 Decision taken. Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Katerina Seminowna Samojlik and co-rapporteur – Secretary of the Committee on Legal Policy, Tolstenko Volodymyr Leonidovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, we're introducing this bill, well, let's put it that way. The Ukrainian Child Protection Act, which we have adopted many times before, states in article 17 that parents or persons who replace them do not have the right without the permission of the custody and care authorities to make contracts that are subject to notarial certification or special registration, to waive the right of a child to property rights, to distribute, exchange, alienation, to commit to a child's name as a guarantee, to issue written obligations. And in the case of parental deprivation or removal of a child without depriving him of parental rights, the court simultaneously prohibits the alienation of property, the housing of children, as reported by the notary office. Later, when other laws were enacted, including the Family Code, these laws were also enshrined in these laws. But instead, the practice of applying the above-mentioned regulations regarding the enforcement and supervision of parents who are replaced by housing rights in practice is, unfortunately, very many different violations. As a result, there are virtually no criteria for caring authorities to perform these functions. Thus, in our legislation, we propose that custody and care authorities refuse to grant the said permit only if the parent or mother of the child who applied for permission is deprived of parental rights if the children do not live in a healthy family if they are used for begging if they are brought up in a cruel and irresponsible environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u119	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u120	Yeah, yeah. I mean, we're giving a good family the opportunity to do these operations in practice, but in the presence of these facts that I've been talking about. And the other facts are pretty substantial. Only in such cases should the authorities of care and care for refuse to carry out all these legitimate actions. I'd like to support all of you, because we have a lot of examples where practically for a bribe without any argument you can solve this question and leave a child without a future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u121	Thank you. From the committee. I would like to ask the Secretary of the Committee on Legal Policy of Vladimir Leonidovich Tolstenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u122	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Legal Policy considered a project that the honourable one had just reported to Catherine Samuel and unanimously suggested that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis for the first reading. The scientific expertise has also supported this proposal, and so we ask you to accept it in the first reading and instruct our committee to work on it with additions and comments from the legislators.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u123	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, who insists on the performance? Please sign up. Yeah, it's done. Please. Yeah, it's clear to everyone, obviously. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws. [[on rights relating to the property of minors and the prevention of corruption in the granting of custody and care permits]] [[Registration number 6189]] Please vote. [[12:45:11]] For 224 I'm voting on a motion to return to the draft law on return. [[12:45:35]] For the 250. We're back on the subject. I am now voting on the committee's proposal for adoption on the basis of Bill 6189. Please vote. [[12:46:00]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. Now, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, here's an offer like this. Since there is now a foreign minister, and you and I have talked about the need to consider the Law on Diplomatic Service with the President's comments, and then the minister is back on the ship, how would you feel about the proposal that we now consider this law? Just a minute. I will now put to the vote the proposal that we now consider the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Diplomatic Service with proposals by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4785]] Please vote. I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[12:47:15]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, as we shall do, the committee first or since.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u124	The minister will listen to the suggestions, and then the committee will move on to the decision? I invite Boris Ivanovich, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Oh, Kostya Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, well, reported. First of all, I apologize to the Minister. Kost Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u125	It's a shame, I get it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u126	On June 1, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed Ukraine's Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on Diplomatic Service, on June 24, 2010, the President of Ukraine made proposals for specific provisions of the law. All the notes, all the changes to the law, are presented in the comparative table that you have. In this regard, I propose that these comments be taken into account by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u127	Thank you. Bones Ivanovich, thank you, sit down. Then, please, the first deputy head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Taras Choronovil. Please, let's go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u128	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow members of the National MPs, as far as this bill is concerned, I think he's been told so much about during his ongoing discussions that adding to what is necessary, necessary and crucially urgent is simply unnecessary. So let's do this clearly. First of all, we've had a series of reconciliations between our committee, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the President's Administration in relation to what? An agreement was reached that some adjustments should be made in the final textual form of the President’s rights. We agree with the argument, but we have made some adjustments that have been agreed upon in order to follow the 100 percent regulatory procedure, we have carried out its work, which was previously voted on in the Supreme Council, and now after the final final revision is being submitted to your consideration. Similarly, at the time that the law was being considered, after amendments had been made to the President, there had been changes to the Constitution, a return to the previous edition, which automatically stopped certain aspects of the formation of the diplomatic service, particularly the appointment of a foreign minister, which had also led to separate amendments. Since, according to constitutional rules, the President is unable to make further amendments, it was agreed that the amendments are made by the deputies, and after the revisions, they go as completely amended. The only point where there was no agreement between the Committee and the Cabinet of Ministers and the President's Administration was the matter of consultations at the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the appointment of ambassadors. This point is shown in the table. Your will will be to decide how these matters will be resolved. For all others, without exception, the amendments are perfectly consistent with all the subjects involved in the drafting of the bill. With regard to the conclusions of the legal administration, in the absolute majority of the positions we have found complete agreement, there are virtually no warnings. There are some significant remarks that I'm asking you to take into account for the stenographer. Since we had hoped that we would still be able to adopt the law last year and it would be put into effect on January 1, this rule was unfortunately left in a comparative table. I'm asking for a perfectly understandable thing to do -- do the correction, and I'm stressing for the stenographers that the end positions should be done. the words that “the law takes effect from 1 January 2011” replace the words “the law takes effect from the date of its publication”, which is in accordance with all the rules of the Rules and the Constitution. Similarly, the Chief Legal Authority has issued some warning that retirement is, to some extent, contrary to the Law on Service, its own age of diplomatic service. But both the President's Office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Kabmin and the Legal Department don't deny this norm. They simply insist that appropriate changes should be made to the State Service Act, from a critical age point, to a clear definition that diplomatic workers are excluded from such rank. This job will be done. Since the Final Order defines the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to amend the legislative acts or to make it more operational for the Ukrainian people's deputies, in the coming months we will be able to vote on this change and remove this problem. There is another observation that since there is a position other than that of a permanent representative of Ukraine with an international organization and that there is a permanent representation for him, there is still a position of representative with an international organization. He said that there would be a need for a change in the situation and for a complement of the structure: representation with an international organization in parallel with a permanent representation. But in the practice of our diplomatic work there is no such structure, it does not exist. There's a separate representation, in some cases it's just the position of a representative. So in this case, we don't support the amendment. In general, I propose to go to the vote on the amendments. Once again, all but one amendment has been agreed upon by all parties to draft a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, there is such an offer. Since the Supreme Council of Ukraine held a ruling on an amendment regarding the need to consult with the appropriate Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the appointment of ambassadors. I think the norm is totally tolerant. So we could vote on this rule, and then we could vote on the law, in fact, in a new edition, taking into account those proposals that were found in support of both the committee and agreed with the Foreign Ministry, and actually agreed with the President. Yeah? What an amendment that is applicable.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u130	It's about revisions, actually, 4th and 5th. The committee proposed rejecting amendment 4 of the President, which stated that paragraphs 5 and 7 of the new law should be deleted. The committee offered to support my amendment, which was supposed to be made in the previous edition. But the Supreme Council will determine how to deal with the President's 4th amendment and the 5th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u131	This is about Ukraine's foreign minister submitting nominations to the President of Ukraine for the appointment of the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Ukraine, a permanent representative of Ukraine to an international organization after consultation at the Committee of the Supreme Council on Foreign Affairs on the candidates for these posts. Kosko Ivanovich, how do you feel about this proposal that is being rejected? You're also sending a letter to a committee that you're writing that we're planning to appoint this person as an ambassador to a country like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u132	Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is the President's position. I can only support the President's position. So I would ask you to take the President's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u133	Just a minute. What is the established practice in all countries? Just a minute. Kosto Ivanovich, what established practice in all countries on this subject?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u134	Each country has its own practice. In many countries this is written, for example, in a consultation, in the Constitution, such as in the United States. In different countries, this is resolved differently according to established tradition.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u135	Okay. Then we're going to put 4 amendments. I'll take it into account. Please, the need to discuss this amendment. Please, Karmazin. Dear colleagues, then I ask you to cancel. Please log in after one minute for 5 minutes on this amendment. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you, Mr. Head. I understand that the Foreign Minister has only one position to express right now, because he will report to the President. At the same time, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, you asked an interesting question, indeed, addressed him to the minister. I think Taras Cnerwell might have answered that question. And he would tell you that virtually all over the world, parliaments have an impact on the appointment of ambassadors in one form or another: or call it consultations, or consent, etc. I mean, except for a few Africans, where the dictatorship is absolute, there's nobody, there's nothing, there's nobody to consult. So this formula, which is proposed in the fifth amendment, is being consulted and which the committee has been inclined to do, in my view, is completely civilized and will not be addressed by the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u137	Yes, thank you, too. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u138	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The request to take into account the President's proposal, as the Supreme Council's committees are not to be informed of the solution to issues that go beyond the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Constitution of Ukraine does not refer to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as referring to the question of the appointment of heads of diplomatic representation of Ukraine in other states and international organizations. The function of consultation with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs and issues of European integration goes beyond the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine established by the Constitution of Ukraine and therefore beyond the constitutionally defined powers of the Committees of Parliament. Request to support the President's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u139	Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction Fatherland
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u140	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In this case, I fully support your doubts and your tolerant appeal to the minister. What is it, fellow believers? This is a simple interview, studying the documents of the candidate for the post of Ambassador of Ukraine in another country. The point is, on the other hand, that this candidate should know that, apart from career diplomacy, there is a measure like parliamentary diplomacy, he should know the opinion of a professional committee. Because it is in Parliament that the Law on the Principles of External and Internal Politics is adopted. Not so many officials come to the ambassador as many parliamentary delegations of different kinds. Therefore, the elimination of such a right of Parliament to control or to advise, perhaps, the executive authority, of the appropriateness of one or another candidate is beyond question. You can't usurp power to the extent that it's proposed right now. This is really akin to African experience.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u141	Andrew Schlell, please, the “BUT – “Fatherhood” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u142	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have asked an entirely correct question. Any one of them. Does Parliament have an impact on the appointment of ambassadors? The same question is asked: Does Parliament have an impact on foreign policy? If Parliament does not influence foreign policy, if Parliament does not adopt laws, then let's eliminate the Committee in foreign affairs, what? We'll hand over all the credentials to the Bank, there are qualified and wise, multi-headed professionals. Everything is eliminated, and the Committee of European Integration, they are already integrated. Disposal of all committees. Take out the Supreme Council and delegate everything to the Bank, and then it'll be quiet and quiet, and it'll be okay. It's all in there. And to delegate Ukraine in general somewhere else. Because there is a state in the same place where the higher legislature is treated in this way. That's what I'm talking about. It's cynical, it's bold and it's demonstrative. Because there are currently consultations on the appointment of ambassadors. How did the quality of ambassadors get worse? I think I've gotten better. Because people understand where they are going and how they will protect their interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u143	Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u144	Colleagues, I'm just going to say that we're not going to get married for nothing. There's a sense that the established political position is to prevent Parliament from allowing this story or a committee of profile. I just want to see my colleagues in the hall. We are very often talking about the fall of parliamentary authority. We now have the opportunity to really strengthen parliamentaryism and to make a very specific mechanism that works in many democratic countries. What is the Ambassador of Ukraine in a State? This is the person representing the Ukrainian people. Well, isn't it logical to allow Parliament as a representative of the Ukrainian people as an official representative of the Ukrainian people for this procedure? What are we finally asking for? Simply informing us about the person who will appoint is not even about consent. Well, are we asking for some unusual things?Oh, my God! Now I encourage my colleague from the faction to look at this calmly, I think it's perfectly normal that the legislature will learn, not from the newspapers, about who will represent the Ukrainian people, but at the decision-making stage.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u145	Boris Tarasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u146	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine In principle, this is an extremely important law. A law awaited by hundreds of Ukrainian diplomats. As one of the co-authors of this bill, I would like to express my regret at the fact that the President vetoed this bill, which was passed by more than a constitutional majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a result, Ukrainian diplomats did not receive the level of social protection they deserved. As a person who worked with Taras Crnovol and with many other members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I want to say that unfortunately, the committee did not stand up for the social rights of Ukrainian diplomats, but stood up for its rights. And only one amendment stood against the President's veto. I want to remind you that similar law, we agreed that there would be a Committee on European Integration on ambassadors who are assigned to the mission at.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u147	Complete your opinion, please. Finish up, please. Well, turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u148	I would like to say that, because the Minister represents the President here, unfortunately, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not been sufficiently active in protecting the interests of Ukrainian diplomats, and Ukrainian diplomats need such protection. Obviously, the President doesn't need Ukrainian diplomats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, Head of the Committee, First Deputy Head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u150	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! My personal position, the position of the committee is expressed in a comparative table, but as Mr. Andriy Shevchenko said, which is a formed political will, we saw him, this was in preparation, this was stated by Mr. Michael Chechtchev, and as far as I know, there was a direct warning that, in this particular case, on this particular right -- the preservation of consultations -- would guarantee a hundred percent veto. I've got a double situation. I made an amendment, and I registered it, which is supposed to save the consultation, but I also understand very well that in this case we need to save the law. And with regard to the allegations that are being made at our committee's address, it would be good for the authors to think very carefully about where the changes were being made, including their committee, for two specific diplomatic posts. Another edition could be saved. It is because this subject has been covered that we lose out on the concept of consultation in general. If it hadn't been clogged, everything would have been as it is today. I hope the charges against our committee will be corrected. We've been resuscitating in stages since we've stood up so that there won't be a full veto on a whole range of other issues, a whole series of questions, a whole range of positions on diplomatic service. And in this case, most of them are saved. Throughout the range of items, we are now planning with the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u151	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u152	To draft a new bill, which, however, provides for a number of provisions concerning social rights that have been vetoed with something so soft, I would say, formulations, i.e. doubts as to whether this is in line with the Budget Code and so forth. Given the very clear arguments that it all answers, that there is no contradiction, assuming the corresponding amounts needed from the budget, we will stand for this to be implemented. Maybe it'll be a government bill to make it more possible to go through it. And now I'm going to propose that we all decide how to vote on the 4th amendment. I know that there is a position for the majority to support the President's position. I vote as the committee votes. And after that, I ask everyone together to support the law that is very necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, I'm going to read you this amendment right now and I'm going to set it up completely. i.e. this paragraph and I will put it to a vote for confirmation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. “The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine is submitting to the President of Ukraine concerning nominations for posts: the Ambassador of Ukraine, the Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the International Organization, the President's Representative to the International Organization, after consultations at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on foreign matters. With regard to candidates for office with the European Union and NATO, also after consultation with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Yeah, one. Change the vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u154	There, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u155	So I bet it's the fourth amendment, I read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u156	Vladimir Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u157	Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u158	Let me just get this straight. The president proposes to remove three paragraphs from the adopted law, starting with that paragraph that you read and the next two are technical. [[fifth to seventh paragraphs]] So what's the position here? If we support the President's position, we need to vote in full and delete these three paragraphs. If we are to maintain the position of the committee, we should leave it in its original form, which was adopted in the first reading of this law, where only the Foreign Affairs Committee was foreseen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u159	Yes, I'm voting on this amendment. () [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, one minute! If this amendment is not confirmed, everything else will be matched. Am I saying it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u160	Not exactly. Because there are three texts. There's an important piece of legislation that works today that we're proposing to keep from the committee. There is what is accepted in the second reading, where. Which you've read where the European Integration Committee is foreseen. And there's the position of the President, which is going to completely delete three paragraphs, which have everything that's involved in the consultations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u161	So I'm putting it to a vote, amendment four. Fourth, I put her to a vote, we don't have any differences here. And then there's the points. That's how it works, paragraph 69, right? 70 and 70, that's when they technically fall out. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u162	If the president’s amendment is supported, three paragraphs are completely deleted from the law: 69, 70, 71, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u163	This is the fourth amendment. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u164	There's nothing left. Yeah. I'm putting the vote to Amendment 4, it's rejected, isn't it? We should put it to a vote in favour of this amendment. Yeah? If it is not supported, it will be rejected. Right? I'm voting on the 4th amendment. [[13:09:18]] For 210 Let's figure this out. The issue is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is entitled. Just a minute. In order for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to have the right to receive a message from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is proposing a candidate for an ambassador in one country or another. The President of Ukraine, after considering this law, stated that the Constitution did not provide for such a right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept candidates for ambassadorial office. So in this case, we need to vote with you or we confirm that this amendment remains. If we don't vote for her to stay, she falls off. Is that what I'm saying? So I'm going to put these amendments to the vote, and you're going to have to decide. If the Supreme Council doesn't vote, that's it. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's how. Just a minute. Thus, only 210 deputies agreed to leave the rights of the committees. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, with motive? Don't confuse. We will be without your motives. That's right, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u165	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u166	210 supported the President. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put a motion to the vote, one minute! – return to the consideration of this amendment. Then we will consult again. Well, why, because there's no clarity. Well, please, dear colleagues, I beg of you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the return to consideration of Amendment 4. Please vote. [[13:11:48]] For 248 We're back. Now let's move on. I will put to the vote who supports the proposal of the President of Ukraine to remove Parliament's right to receive messages from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the nominations proposed to appoint one or more posts to remove this rule of law. Please vote. [[13:12:27]] For a hundred and Dear colleagues, I ask you once again, let the chairman of the committee say, let him say that he expects the fate of this law then.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u167	Well, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I can't say what he expects, because the bill goes to the President in that case. If there was, let's say. Because the Ministry and I were talking, they weren't alone. They said there was a question about the constitutionality of this act and there was the position of the President. If you, as Head of Parliament, could convince the President that these consultations are the lowest level of agreement. They have no peremptory character, and if the President did not re-set the veto, we would have, as I am, a very good practice of maintaining consultations and not having any kind of parliamentary imperative. But if that's not the case, if you can't convince them, there'll be another veto. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u168	Please, one minute, Minister of Foreign Affairs Grishenko Kostunica Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u169	I think we're talking about constitutionality right now. Since this is a fundamental question, we can certainly expect the President's veto. I would ask you very much not to stress this, because we're going to lose just the law we need for the service. In the end, we always respect the Supreme Council, always in one way or another, the Supreme Council. Those who are interested know who we have ambassadors. I think that when you visit our foreign institutions, you also feel respect for those ambassadors who are appointed President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I understand perfectly that we need either to preserve most of the positions that were in this law, or because of one position to regain the veto, and to re-establish the technical issues. So let's do it this way right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please, all the discussions are over. Let's do it this way. I'll put it to a vote now. return to this amendment. If the Supreme Council doesn't back up again, then I'm going to propose this amendment to the committee. He cut it there, that is, he only offers advice to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Like a palate, I'll put it to a vote as a compromise. And then we're going to define ourselves. I'm begging you! Dear colleagues, I am voting for the return to Amendment 4. Please vote. [[13:15:30.]] For 248 We're back to the repair. Now I'm paying attention, please! – the vote to remove a paragraph from this law which states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall consult the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Committee on European Integration at the same time as the President of Ukraine's proposals for the appointment of ambassadors. Who's in favour of removing this rule, please vote. [[13:16:20]] For 244 It's an amendment. The President's proposal is supported. This automatically counts. Well, it's the same thing. Dear colleagues, this is one amendment, four, go! Dear colleagues, before we put it to the vote, let's do it this way. I, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will address the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I am now speaking verbally to make known the relevant committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the nominations that are being proposed for appointments. Please don't scream! We have every opportunity, let's just use it, invite the minister, listen to him, and say that we think about the ministry and our individual diplomatic representations. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u171	I'm like the last one. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm the last of the committee: I'm still asking everyone to support this bill because it's one of the norms. I'm sorry it's lost, but it's just one rule, and the bill is really needed. We will now work with the Ministry on a new bill. And we hope that it is with the participation of the President of the Supreme Council that we can convince the President that the new bill will reflect a rule on consultations that are not of a peremptory nature. As for some of the advocates of this norm, one of those who most shouted about it wrote in preparation for the second reading, referring to the Constitution that consultations with the Committees of the Supreme Council were unacceptable. [[I mentioned African countries.]] What changed my mind suddenly, abruptly? That's why I'm asking everyone to vote. This law is, indeed, very much needed today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the proposal of the President of Ukraine for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Diplomatic Service. [[Registration number 4785]] Please vote. [[13:18:38]] For 267 The law is passed, thank you. It's being announced. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the preparation and implementation of investment projects is being announced for consideration under the single window principle. At the same time, honourable colleagues, committees and drafters of the bill have asked me to postpone, to postpone the consideration of this very necessary bill, because a number of positions need to be agreed upon in order for this law to meet all the requirements. I'm voting on the motion to postpone consideration of draft law registration number 7423. Please vote. [[13:19:40]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the protection of social morality]] We're asked to look at it expeditiously, under reduced procedure, because there are agreed positions between factions. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:20:14]] For 223 Decision taken. The reporter is both the author and the committee, Andry Vitaliyovich Shevchenko, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u173	Thank you, Your Honor. When we talk about morality, what's the biggest Ukrainian dilemma, or the dilemma in any democratic country? It is in a very simple situation to strengthen morale without losing freedom. Well, that's the dilemma that the drafters of this bill were working on. I'll say it's written from the initiative of a whole range of journalistic and social organizations. This is the National Association of Journalists of Ukraine, the Institute of Media Law, the Institute of Media, the Industrial Television Committee, the Independent Association of Languages, the Association of Publishers of the Periodic Press, the Ukrainian Internet Association and many others. I have to be. I have the honour to be one of the co-authors of this bill in the Supreme Council, along with me under this bill are the signatures of our colleagues Yuri Miroshnichenko, Ruslan Knazević, Eugene Suslov and Vladislav Kaskov. So I have the privilege of speaking from the entire copyright team. Thus, the Law on the Protection of Social Morality is currently in force in the country. It has been in operation since 2003, and since 2003, it has been severely criticized by the Council of Europe, many journalists, civil society and law enforcement organizations. They point out that Ukraine is a unique state in Europe, thus seeking to regulate morals. What are we doing in our bill? We have carefully studied and found all the useful things that are in the Act on the Protection of Social Morality in force and we are transferring them to the law of profile. Well, let's say we have an active law that says that external advertising shouldn't contain sexual stories. Well, obviously this position should naturally be in the Advertising Act. Or, let’s say, it’s such a standard that magazines are erotic, pornographic. Erotic character, they're supposed to be spreading in a opaque sealed cover, right? And it's obviously more natural to look at it in the profile Press Act or the Publishing Act. And so on. So we're making changes to a series of laws, profile laws, where these rules are going to work with much more benefit. I'm going to take a separate look at the observations of the science department. In most cases they apply to the legal technique of the bill. And in our view, we can totally settle this in preparation for the second reading. And I'll also point out that, in most cases, the scientific expertise is critical of the positions that are already in the Act for the Protection of Social Morality in force, we just took them from there. At the stage of preparation for second reading, we make a commitment as a committee to regulate and prepare, to remove all precautions from the legal point of view. So on behalf of the copyright team, on behalf of a huge number of public, journalistic organizations and on behalf of the profile committee, I call on the Supreme Council to support this bill on the basis. Once again, we are guided by a very simple principle: We must strengthen morality without limiting freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u174	Thank you, Andry Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Vadim Koleschenko and Katerina Vaschuk, please. Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u175	Respectful colleagues, of course, need to protect their morals. But tools are a very interesting thing. Because if we see a bill in which the uncertainty of the terms "erotic" and "sexual" are taken as a basis, then we have to ban the art of 18th-XIX, 17th-century, because there are half-naked or naked male and female bodies, they may fall under these vague terms. And I'm not talking about the culture of ancient Greece and Rome. That's the first one. It's different. It is very difficult to imagine being a salesman when some laws apply to children of 16 years of age, while other laws apply to children of 18 years of age. How do you tell them apart when kids today at 14 look like 25-year-olds? And we realize that this act of law, it's going to make people's lives very difficult, and it doesn't finally solve the issue of moral protection. And for example. The Criminal Code proposes action — an article as a criminal offence, a criminal act involving 16 - year - old children. And we suggest that we take responsibility for selling erotic products to children or to 18 years of age. This has nothing to do with each other, so I feel that we cannot accept this bill in this way and that we need to go back to work. Because the struggle for social morality is certainly necessary, but it is not to vote, but to work to ensure that the laws work for society and for our future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u176	Thank you. Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u177	Katerina Vaschuk, People's Party. Dear colleagues, I agree with the previous speaker. The law is totally raw. The law is not the nature, indeed, of such a legislative act, of a law that clearly prescribes terminology and can then be manipulated. And that's the main thing. A new law has been passed, and I am among the coauthors of that law, for the protection of social morality. He's been registered for a long time, and today he wouldn't have had this bill to fall short of what's alternative. I think it's a lack of committee work or carelessness, or a conscious retention of the law that we have passed. And with regard to the subject under consideration, it's a very painful topic today, and maybe it's not just about issues, there, erotics, it's a social morality, not just about that. For example, I find it more frightening that today people who build wealth on blood are popular, and with machines for a single movie, they are mostly people. Where there are horrors, where there is sadism, where there are terrible things, and then we wonder why children beat each other in schools, even girls. In general, social morality and social morality are a very broad concept and a society that is not concerned about it, about moral protection, there is no future. That's why I'm against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u178	The factions that have not spoken are entitled to one minute at a time. George Carmazin, followed by Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u179	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand why we're contradicting the Law on the Protection of Social Morality with changes, completely complex changes, to a number of laws, which I'm going to remind you of: the protection of childhood, the print media, the publishing industry, advertising, and cinema. Isn't it bad, if it's written right now as suggested: external advertising, open windows, shields and so on, which contain texts or images of a sexual or erotic character, is forbidden. It is not bad that the Film Act will state that the administration of an organization that publicly demonstrates the film and audio production of erotic or sexual character is obliged to refer to the posters or programmes of transfer of the category of rental of the relevant product. Because of this. Anyway, I can ask a lot of these questions, I want to thank both Shevchenka, and Miroshnichenko, and Knazevitch, and Suslov and Kaskov for doing a complex serious job that can be done in another.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u180	Katerina Samuelk. Then there's Andrew. Who's gonna be the faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u181	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! And all who listen to us are honored! You've probably all heard it and during meetings, people raise questions about the morality of our television, our movie. People who are ordinary seem to be barely surviving, barely ending up in the end, and at the same time raising the issue of returning to the morale of our society. And that's why I think, even though this law really has serious flaws, we have to vote for it. We need to unlock that question. You should. Here are those who came up to us right now and said, "There are other laws, please, after the adoption of the first reading, join in the preparation for the second reading." But the law has to be adopted. And I think it's one of the most important laws that every family, every family, is waiting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u182	Yes, Andrew School, please. It's already been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u183	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I think you know, this is an area that needs to be remembered and reformed. I think this, for me, has succeeded in trying to reform a process that we have long forgotten and somehow forgotten. So I think that first reading is a positive step that the Supreme Council can take to return to the processes that are taking place both in the society around us and in Ukraine in particular. I want to point out that we all try to fight for morality, but I am a great and intense opponent in the fight for morality, in the fight against freedom of speech, in the fight for freedom of expression. [[Well, it takes everyone to be moral, anyway.]] So, as far as I'm concerned, the beginning is positive and good. And I think we should vote in the first reading. And everyone who wants to join the job, I personally promise to do it -- join in and make a quality full law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues, they've been acting since the faction. No, it was Vadim Koleschenko. Well, please, Jaroslav Suhi. Well, there were two men out of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u185	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have an address for the vote. I may not have heard everyone’s comments about what the Ukrainian national deputy Catherine Vaschuk said. This bill is the first bill, and it needs to be voted for in the first reading, and it needs to start at the legislative level, at our level, fighting immorality in society. Tell me, please, 7.5 billion dollars that have been lost from the budget and then the court has written down this money on all of us, and you are not a specific person and a particular firm is moral or immoral? Is it morality or immorality? And interreligious enmity is morality or immorality? What about putting pressure on the judicial authorities, on the bodies of inquiry, to achieve some desired political outcome for their political power? So this bill does not apply only to, there, eroticism or not eroticism, a section of these terminology concepts. This is really a much broader issue, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot stand outside these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u186	Paul Silent, last speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u187	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that there is another bill, which is a change to the existing law. Why did we cut him off, and you, the bill that Andrew Shevchenko introduced from who he is, I think, is basic? And then we should consider it in the context of the second bill, which we should be obliged to do simply. Why are we talking about this? Because we realize that the huge costs, no one is looking at any canons that have been made by humanity and that are really high examples of art. No one ever mixes those sexy different pictures that are now being distributed, sold and turned into a huge business. Today it's about whether we're settling this business and it's going to be the channels that go around the world, or whether Ukraine will have its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u188	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing a bill to be adopted as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office considers it necessary to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return the draft to work. At the same time, a group of national deputies made a draft decree to return the draft law to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Well, I think as a result of the vote, we're going to define here. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of social morality. [[Registration number 6532]] Please vote. [[13:35:05]] For 324 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. With regard to Catherine Vaschuk's observation that the bill on this subject has not been submitted for a long time for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask the secretariat to study the circumstances of this problem and to provide relevant information. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending articles 19 and 43 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act. [[on fines]] [[Registration number 6134]] The proposal is to consider this issue by a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[13:35:58]] For 210 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Valérie Ilchi Konovaluk. He is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Svetlana Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u189	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! According to information provided by the Ukrainian State Committee on Industrial Safety, Labour Protection, and Mining, only 9 months ago, 8.5,000 people were injured in Ukraine, including 488 of whom were killed. Overall, statistics over the past few years indicate that there are about 17,000 industrial accidents and about 8,000 occupational diseases per year in Ukraine. Some one - third of those affected by industrial accidents remain disabled, and among those affected by occupational diseases, this figure is 50 percent. One of the main causes of this high level of trauma is the underemployment of businesses. It is not so much a violation of workers’ safety requirements as it is of the dangerous working conditions created by business owners as a result of the lack of labour protection legislation. An analysis of the industrial safety and safety of work shows that employers are more likely to pay a fine or to redeem themselves than to allocate funds to create hazardous working conditions, to acquire new equipment, to provide personal protection, or to train workers in safe working methods. It is to resolve the problem that is being addressed by a bill that reinforces administrative responsibility for breaking labour protection legislation and improves the procedure for imposing and imposing fines, namely: clarify and supplement the offences for which a fine is imposed; to establish that the order of responsibility for violations of labour law is determined by the central supervisory authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u190	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u191	strengthen the employer’s obligation to remedy any wrongdoing found in the determination of the time limit after payment of the fine and consider its failure to do so as a misdemeanour. The proposed changes do not require additional costs from the state budget and are aimed at protecting the constitutional rights of citizens, protection and life, and health in the work process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u192	Thank you, too. Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelova, of the Committee on Social Policy and Work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u193	Schmellow, the Company's faction. Dear national MPs, radio and television! At its meeting on 16 June 2010, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work considered a bill amending articles 19 and 43 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Konovaluk, Derkac, Kravchenk. The drafters propose to amend articles 19 and 43 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act with the aim of strengthening administrative responsibility for violations of labour protection legislation and bringing these rules into line with the current legislation of Ukraine. The changes made to article 19 of the Labour Protection Act offer a minimum of 0.5 per cent of the employer’s work security expenditure to refer to the amount of products, jobs, goods and services implemented per year. Amendments to article 43 of the same law establish the order and mechanism for the application of a fine for violations of labour law, the procedure for his complaint, and the payment of pennies for nonpayment, or not the full payment applied to the employer of fines. According to the authors of the legislative initiative, the above - mentioned changes are aimed at strengthening the constitutional rights of citizens, protecting their lives and health in the work process, and adequate working conditions. In general, the committee supports the initiative of the authors of the bill to strengthen State control over the implementation of the requirements of article 19 of the Labour Protection Act in the financing of preventive measures aimed at preventing accidents and occupational diseases. At the same time, the bill has a number of inconsistencies and inconsistencies with the current legislation of Ukraine. Yes, the order proposed by the authors and the mechanism for applying fines to employers is not subject to the regulation of the Labour Protection Act of Ukraine, and therefore the rules indicated need to be amended accordingly by the Administrative Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u194	Microphone, please. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u195	The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill makes it appropriate to send the author for further work. The Committee on Social Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending articles 19 and 43 of the Labour Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Please have the names of the national MPs who signed up. Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I want to say that the subject of job protection is very relevant, because we know that every year thousands of people get injuries and because the very protection of work is not being maintained. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that in its time, trade unions had the full right to control the protection of their jobs. They were independent of the CEO's businesses, of the authorities, and that control was very effective. But with the adoption of the Labour Protection Act, this function has actually been taken over by the State, and the State is actually protecting the work, but if this State is protecting the work of its own state enterprises, it is, you know, so easy. So really, strengthening sanctions against those who do not provide normal working conditions, or those who violate working conditions, especially we know, in mines there are accidents due to working conditions, requires, in fact, the adoption of this law. I support the decision of our Committee on Social Policy and the work to adopt the law as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u198	Andrey Pavlovski, Faction "BUT" - "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u199	Andrey Pavlowski, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear colleagues, in general, in support of the authors' idea of increasing responsibility for violating the Labour Protection Act, it should be noted that, on the same social committee, the position of the lawyers of the Supreme Council that the proposed authors of the order and mechanisms for the application of fines is not at all subject to the regulation of this Law on the Protection of Work. Not to this law, but to the Code of Administrative Offences. On the other hand, there is a questionable rule regarding the application of repetitive fines. As the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority points out, this leads to the same violations being punished twice, which is contrary to 61 articles of the Constitution. The rules on the application of penalties for violations of the rules and reporting periods seem questionable, and the authors forgot to indicate exactly what reporting of the infringement. And so in view of all of this, our faction supports the conclusions of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and proposes to send the bill to the authors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u200	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u201	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Unfortunately, it is very common for respected colleagues to report that domestic businesses are in breach of labour protection standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u202	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u203	Without exaggeration, people often have to work at the risk of constant injury. Therefore, it is absolutely fair to take on a more stringent responsibility for violating labour protection legislation. However, I want to point out that the project grants the right to bring exclusively to the central authority of the executive branch in charge of labour protection. However, this situation is contrary to article 38 of the Law on the Protection of Work, which provides for the exercise of State oversight by other specially authorized public authorities. There is also a need for clarification of the term “budgeted enterprise” set out in the new edition of part three of article 19 of the Labour Protection Act. After all, such a situation is actually unjustifiable in favored positions, businesses, institutions, and organizations held at the expense of the budget. Although the bill will undoubtedly help to improve the working conditions of businesses, it should be adopted in the first reading and the second reading should be done in order to adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u204	Thank you. Please, Carmazin and Samuel. One minute at a time. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u205	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I've studied not only the bill carefully, but all the additions that we've been given, and all the organizations that have studied this bill, and I agree that the ideas are good, but they've been done so far, unfortunately, not quite enough. For example, a re-infringement is proposed to consider a violation that has not been corrected within the set time limits. Think about it, because article 61 of the Constitution of Ukraine clearly contradicts it, because under the term “extension of the fine” there is a provision for the same violation of another fine in the amount that doubles. How does this relate to the Constitution? No wonder the Supreme Court objected. So it is no wonder that Minprompolitics objected. So it is no wonder that Minfin spoke out against it. And I'm against accepting this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u206	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u207	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of the bill. I'll tell you more. Probably in 20 years, we're going back to this very important question for the first time. Of course, there are a lot of observations from the Science and Technology Administration. But it's also an administration to make comments. And the more the standards become more violent with regard to those who are constantly violating and failing to take action to protect their jobs, I think we really need to support all of them. What a pity it is for us to have a head of state or a private institution who will pay a fine again for failing to do so! Why do we not feel sorry for people? Who today calculated how many people die in production? And what responsibility rests with those who allow it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine send a draft for further work. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending articles 19 and 43 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act. [[on fines]] There's a vote coming. [[13:49:13]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we were to now consider a draft Law amending certain legislative acts (for banning the activities of extrasenses, witch doctors, fortune tellers, chiromants, and services for predicting the future (foreign) (registration number 6299). At the same time, there is a letter from the authors asking them to postpone their consideration of the matter. I'm voting on this proposal. Please identify yourself, please. [[13:50:02]] For 244 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act is being discussed in the second reading. [[on the provision by television channels of idling information during advertising]] The reporter is Andrew Shevchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u209	Colleagues, we are dealing with the simple and clear initiative of our colleague Zarubinsky, who was preparing the committee for the second reading. The whole point of this proposal is clear from the title of the bill: about providing television channels with identifiable information during advertising. The committee had a discussion, and as a result we came together on the approach that the authors proposed, namely that the person who included the TV channel, whether it was a commercial block or not, should understand which channel it was on. For this reason, all the amendments made by the people’s deputies have been rejected. So the committee proposes to support the bill in the version in which it was registered by authors led by Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u210	The first Bagraeva correction was rejected. Is she insisting on it? No, it's not. Second, Andrew Shevchenko, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Carmagine, insisting on repair? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u211	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the very right law, where it was said to change the words "termization." I propose that the definition of the term “logotype” be set out in the following wording: “The logo of the channels of speech is a permanent verbal, artistic, or bulky sign combined with letters, figures, words, words, or emblems, slogans, studios, agencies, or individual who broadcasts, or broadcasts any audiovisual information.” It seems to me that in this definition of the term “logotype” we are more modernizing, and they, these changes to the Television and Radio Regulations, would be more modern. I'm modernizing them. I don't understand why they've been rejected. Maybe I'll have the committee manager explain it to me, maybe I'll agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u212	Yuri Anatoliyovich, Yuri Anatoliyovich, indeed, we have discussed very much the nuances of this definition. In front of us enough, I'd say this kind of demonstration and one that deserves respect, trying to write what a logo is. But professionals in this field, as well as lawyers, had warnings, well, for example, about the slogan, whether it could be a logo and so on. In short, the committee’s decision was rejected because it was thought to be an imperfect, inopportune definition of the logo.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u213	The vote is amended by the third Yuri Karmazin. [[13:53:22]] For-39 Correction not accepted. Amendment four, Wonderland, insists on it? No, it's not. Fifth, Bagraev Condratiuk? No, it's not. Sixth, Curly, no. Seven, Chevchenko? No, it's not. Eight, Carmazin, are you insisting on her? Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u214	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to listen, because if we don't want to modernize the law, we will live in a state that will fall behind. Not surprisingly, we are compared to distant countries. Part three of article 46, I propose that the following article reads: “The use of speech channel logos or other output data is carried out by radio organizations throughout the airtime.” For example, radios that broadcast their broadcasts in digital format can transmit not only sound signals but also some additional information to be displayed on radio monitors. As far as television is concerned, there is no difficulty at all. So I would like to support this amendment. At least I did, because I'm sure sooner or later we'll come to the proper definition of our laws and raise the role of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u215	Yuri Anatolyovich, let me put it this way: essentially, your amendment is counted. If you look at the final edition, that's the terminology of "airtime," not "television." So I would say that by the word "refused" as the position of the committee there is no such undisclosed contradiction to your position, there is simply an editorial version of a slightly different version.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u216	I'll bet the vote on the eighth amendment. [[13:55:28]] For-27 Correction not supported. 9th Amendment, Wonderful. Is he insisting? No, it's not. All the other amendments here are included. Please, Andrew Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u217	I ask the committee to support the bill in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Television and Broadcasting. [[on the provision by television channels of idling information during advertising]] Registration number 3631. Please vote. [[13:56:20]] For 302 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now to consider the draft Law on Amendments to Article 212 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[concerning adoption]] At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office concluded that the text of the bill did not meet the requirements of article 116 of the Rules. Please bring into line with Rule 116 of the Rules. It's an appeal to the committee. Then the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider the matter. I'm going to project. Dear colleagues, let's continue for 15 minutes. We have four bills in our second reading. We'll look at them and that's it. Let's do one more. This is a draft law amending article 61 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on the property rights of a married couple]] Registration number 4493. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u219	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, The bill is intended to supplement article 61 of the Ukrainian Family Code with a new part that establishes that the subject of the right to share compatible property of a marriage is housing and land, including one of the spouses who is acquired during marriage on the basis of the free transfer of land of public utility property or the privatization of the land. The adoption of the bill will allow for the improvement of the legal regime of housing and land, including the acquisition by one of the spouses during marriage on the basis of the free transfer of land of public utility property or privatization as objects of the common property of the couple. The adoption of the bill will allow for the explicit application of the Ukrainian Family Code by courts to protect the property interests of the couple. Three proposals were submitted to Ukraine’s draft Law on Amendments to Article 61 of the Ukrainian Family Code on Common Property Property Objects, of which all were taken into account. The bill is designed by the legal authorities without notice. The committee proposes to support the adoption of the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee that is in line with the conclusion of the General Legal Authority on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Law amending article 61 of the Ukrainian Family Code on Objects of the Common Property Rights of the Marriage. [[Registration number 4493]] Please vote. [[13:59:13]] For 274 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have yet to consider at the evening session, apart from what we have planned, the bills that we have included in the agenda this morning, which are prepared by the committees for consideration, and on which positions have been agreed upon at the Conciliation Council. Therefore, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. At 4: 00 p.m., we will continue our consideration of the issues scheduled for Tuesday, January 11.
