ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:54]] Cards were registered in the 357 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine, Harlim Valeri Mikhajlovich. Please welcome the nominee and wish him success. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on September 22, 2011. Twenty-one questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 7 laws and 18 regulations were passed, 3 bills were passed on the basis, 3 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law has been adopted in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 2 laws are aimed at furthering the committee. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are held every Friday during the plenary week "hour of questions to the Government". In accordance with the requirements of these two laws, all members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should be present on the "hour of questions to the Government", with the exception of those absent for important reasons. At the same time, the practice of ignoring the "hour of questions to the government," which today is a visual confirmation. Among other things, we see a picture that, in a report of the Government Bills in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, substitutes usually come, then substitutes are sent to the deputies, and, at best, to the committee, as a show of respect for committees, heads of departments. In view of this, honourable colleagues, that the calendar work plan of the Supreme Council is being adopted in advance and is well-known to the Cabinet of Ministers, I believe that we have no reason to hold an "hour of questions to the Government" today. The next plenary week, I proposed that no government bill should be put under review until we could work together. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is still working on the initiative, and on the day of the introduction of the drafts, drafts are being considered. But ignoring, ignoring, I don't think that's an example and not the way the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should go. In view of this, I thank the present members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We've got nowhere to go, we'll wait until we can work together. It's not a challenge, it's a requirement to obey the law. Let us demonstrate that we are obeying the law. Thank you. Calm down, dear fellows. We are now moving on to the announcement of parliamentary requests in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Grinevetsky’s Sergey to the President of Ukraine on the need for the development of the Ukrainian State Development Programme. I'm betting on a motion to support the request of the People's Deputy Greenewecko. Please vote. [[10:05:44]] For 266 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to refer a request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:05]] For 252 Decision taken. Jurija Gnatkević to the President of Ukraine on the failure of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to perform its official duties established by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine to ensure the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u2	I'm betting on a motion to support the request. [[10:06:42]] For 106 Request not supported. Jury of Lithuania to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the formation of State and Local Budgets for 2012 for the Kirovograd region. Catherine Samoylik, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine for Violations of Actual Legislation during the construction of a historic section in the centre of the city of Herson. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the suspension of Order No. 907 of the Ministry of Education and Science, the youth and sports of Ukraine, which approves the specifications for harmful technical equipment, and the abolition of trades announced by the National Institute of Innovation Technology and Education, such as those that violate the law and could harm Ukrainian schools. [[Shevchenko, Soslov and others]] Leonidas Grač to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on political persecution, illegal criminal offence and torture in relation to the deputy head of the Black Sea Village Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Larissa Tuysuzov. Valeria Bevenza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of effective measures aimed at returning to the state property of the closed stockholding company Indar, the only company in Ukraine that specializes in insulin production. Anatolia Griesenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the inaction of the Prime Minister of Ukraine with regard to the conduct of official investigations, the detection of the culprits and the involvement of them in carrying out a fictitious tender for the purchase in March of the current year by the state-owned Black Mornaftegas self-sustaining drilling plant and the creation of premeditations for causing the State losses in a particularly large amount – 1.2 billion dollars. [[PGI]] Valeria Calchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the State Programme for the Permanent Development of the Region of Extraction and Primary Processing of Uranium Raw Materials for 2006-2030 and for the implementation of the Ukrainian President's mandate from 19 November 2010. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the problems of the Kirovograd bourgeois complex. Vasila Wondernova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the justification for the increase in salaries for the provision of land resources by the State Agency and its local authorities for paid administrative services. Vladimir Vizewski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure of Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers to implement the decision of the Ukrainian-Polish Inter-Governmental Coordination Council on inter-regional cooperation to open new points of entry across the state border between Ukraine and Poland, such as the Ugrini-Dolgobichov Pass. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Government's intentions of increasing the level of compensation for expenses incurred by enterprises for transporting the benefits categories of citizens. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as head of the Court of Auditors for the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Recalculations relating to the Black Sea Division and the stay of the Russian Federation fleet in Ukraine, which became effective back in 2007. Vasila Zdravnov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the gasification of the inhabited areas of the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the response to the illegal actions of the Ukrainian State Tax Service, which, for five years, freed the import of a book of foreign origin, resulted in the loss of a state budget of 1 billion 800 million dollars. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for vandalism, which took place in the Kalin Strait of Dniprovski Export in Kiev, the destruction of the memorial crosses on which the names of the population and the number of victims of Holodomor in 1932-1933 were indicated, the lack of a response of authority to these facts and the need for restoration, permanent care and protection of the memory crosses in the Kalin Mountains. Zhay Shishkina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper review of the parliamentary appeal regarding the settlement of the issue of repayment by the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Ukraine of the debt owed to the company AutoKRAZ, according to the court's decision. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the insufficient funding of the Own House budget programme. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the invocation of responsibility for the directors of enterprises that violate the legislation on the payment of wages and the immediate liquidation of their arrears in the Odessa area. Igor Sharov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for fundamental changes in the physical education system in schools with the aim of improving the physical health of young countries. Leonidas Grač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-closure of the Medical Center for the Rehabilitation of Minors in the Sadowa District of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Mikli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding under the State Program "The Ukrainian Book 2011" of the final 54th Toma Academic Collection of John Frank's works. Alexander Dove to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for State action to implement the International Convention for the Protection of Immaterial Cultural Heritage. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to improve the medical care system of students in general educational institutions with the aim of improving the health of schoolchildren and reducing their disease levels. Alexia Fedun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, for the extension of the service license, Audiotex, issued to the Society with limited responsibility "C_V_R". Paul Silent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of protective legislation that led to the destruction of the Dragon Vales in Kiev. Sergey Chrapova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation at the state-owned company Eastern Mining and Enriching. Ruslana Knazević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for ignoring the tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the inaction of the Director of the State Institute of Human Resources Training of the State Agency of Ukraine for the administration of state corporate rights and property. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the specific requirements of the Ukrainian public organisations on the necessity of withdrawing the bill on guarantees of the State for the enforcement of judgments by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a violation of the constitutional rights of citizens. Oleg Zarubinsky to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, for the protection of the rights of small shareholders and guarantees of dividends. Sergey Shevchuk and Victor Olijnik to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-payment of debts on taxes and other compulsory payments from the Open Shareholders Association "Vlodimirtsukor" in Volodymiri-Volinski Volin County. Sergia Soboljeva and Yuri Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the non-destruction of the Jubilee Park in Odessa, whose forest plantation ensures the ecological balance of the city and protects its inhabitants from dangerous landslides, the use of appropriate response measures. Groups of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Kyiv District Administration, the Chernigian District State Administration, the Sevastopol City State Administration, the Biloczerkow District State Administration of the Kyiv Region, the Nahim district of the village of Vertivuk, the Nizhin district of Chernigiv region, the village of Fursa, Mali Vilshunka, the Interov, the Bilocerkow district of the province of Kiev, the village of Andrivka, the Nakhoma district of the capital of Sevastopol on the need for the gasification of the specified sections according to the Government of the Cabinet of the Republic of the Republic of Ukraine. [[The Footman, Bondica, and Others]] [[indigestion]] Valery Baranov to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to amend the current legislation on granting special permits for the use of the drama. Yuri Odarchenka to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for the reasons for the execution of Rodion Kirey's judge's authority. Victor Taran to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, for the act of vandalism over the crosses with the names of villages whose population died. starved to death. Vladimir Ariev to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need to verify the involvement of co-workers of the Ukrainian Ministry of Interior authorities in a conflict with a member of the Luhansk Justice Group, Yuri Kosariev. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the Government's intentions to allocate local self-government funding from the State budget of Ukraine to ensure their normal functioning by the end of 2011. Edward Prutnik to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Montenegrin District State Administration, is concerned about the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of Sergey the Quick-Benefit from the village of Radgospne in the region of Chernigiv in order to contribute to the restoration of housing destroyed by a fire in August of this year. Vasil Spak to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the regulation of gas prices for the rural population. Igor Alekseyev to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of exclusion from the list of non-privatisation enterprises, the State Enterprise Wolinthorf. Irina Herashchenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the provision of comprehensive information on the previous parliamentary request to determine the circumstances of the illegal use of the logo of the newspaper "The Mirror of the Week. Ukraine." Catherine Vaschuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the urgent need for the establishment of an X - ray camera at the Lokachin district hospital in Volin County. Mikoli Shershun to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine on the development of budgetary mechanisms and targeted programmes for the preservation of young families. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the protection of Ukrainian citizens' housing rights, who live in multi-family buildings separated from central heating. Alexander Kasinuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need to take appropriate action on the illegal actions of individual officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the management of the State Enterprise of the Institute for Medical and Environmental Affairs of Donbas and Coal Industry and the obstacles to the normal work of the Institute. Alexia Plotnikov to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Customs Service of Ukraine, the State Tax Service of Ukraine on the need to verify the facts presented in the address of the citizen of Constantine Markow. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of measures to locate nine - year - old Inna Lukyanovich, who disappeared on July 31, this year in the Solomonic region of Kiev. [[Ribakova, Chaplin and others]] Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine on the need to carry out a comprehensive examination of the circumstances regarding the long-term failure to execute a decision on the protection of property rights and the abolition of self-sustainment approved for the benefit of the disabled of Anatolia Group II and Alla Bulavko. [[Bondica, Plotnikova, Stepankenka]] Anatolia Matvienko to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the examination of the facts of the raiding of the territory of the Cave Market of Kiev by the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine. Valerija Baranov to the head of the Ukrainian State Agency for Land Resources on the need to amend Ukraine's land legislation in order to improve the procedure for the granting of land to legal and natural persons. Alexia Feduna to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the National Commission on Communications Management of Ukraine on the protection of economic competition, the use of measures to create a level playing field for all subjects in the field of audiotex services and the restoration of the rights and legitimate interests of society with a limited responsibility "C_V_R". Sergey Tereshuka, head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the Katerinopil-Viknin-Yaroshovka road area, Katerinopil district, Cherkas region. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister for Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the examination of the gross violation of the rights of students of the National Aviation University, the possible exceedance of their service powers by officials of the National Aviation University while continuing to reside in dormitories, forcing them to enter into insurance contracts, for the use of re-establishment of students' rights and for the prosecution of those responsible. Mikoli Tomenka and Stepan Davimuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, who is in charge of the head of the Court of Auditors to verify the efficiency of the use of budget funds for the production of textbooks for pupils in the public educational institutions in 2011. Artema Sinica to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal alienation of state property. Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the orders of the head of the Lanewetssky district administration of the Ternopil region of Viktor Frostyuk, by which his relatives, the first deputy head of the district government and other officials were given two hectares of agricultural land. Eugene Kzarkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the gross violation of Ukrainian legislation on the distribution of information from the electronic databases of the State Automobile Inspection and Ministry of Internal Affairs on the Internet and the distribution of personal data to Ukrainian citizens through a corrupt link. Viacheslava Kirilenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of measures to properly investigate the illegal actions of a group of people who, calling themselves Communists and Communists of the Volina, were promoting extremism, violence, political intolerance, provocation of public peace and order, who had been exposed to the videos they were shooting at with the guns of the portrait of Stephen Bandera and Roman Shuhevich. Boris Pudova to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the status of the investigation into the receiving of bribes by the Chief of the Land Administration of the Kyiv Region, which revealed the forms of the Ukrainian National Deputy Vladimir Olijnik. Vladimir Ariev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the incomplete and formalistic replies of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to parliamentary appeals, apparently formal responses. Mikoli Kowzel to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the closure of a family - type children’s home in the city of Kiverci Volinsk. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination of the unconscionable performance of his duties as individual employees of the Hmelnick City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Hmelnick region. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, on the organization of verification of violations of Ukrainian citizens' rights to property owned by reorganized collective agricultural enterprises, as expressed in non-compliance with the requirements of legislation in the area of leasing of property, illegal possession of property by mortgages, illegal use of agricultural land, avoidance of payment of taxes, use of response measures. Vladimir Jaroschuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the self - removal of the Kyiv District Prosecutor’s Office from the exercise of the responsibility of prosecutorial oversight of compliance with the requirements of effective legislation and the provision of unreliable information to the People’s Deputy. Paul Sulkovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the protection of property rights of members of the Fund for the Financing of Housing Building No. 4 on Gagarin Street in Raven. Grigory Smituha to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the provision of protection for the interests of the State during the trial of the return of property of the State Enterprise, the Nicopolese Pipe Plant. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the dissatisfaction with the reply of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to the previous parliamentary inquiry concerning the events that took place on 9 May 2011 in the city of Lviv near the Slava Hill and in the field of Mars. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate response to violations of the current legislation of Ukraine and the inaction of the prosecutor of the city of South Ukraine of the Mikolai region of Constantine the Widow. Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the delay in investigating a criminal case because of the fact that money has been acquired by officials of the Credit Association of the Ukrainian Financial Union. Sergei Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to further investigate the facts of the forced destruction of the Lubensky City Culture House, the involvement of officials in the local self-government of the city, representatives of prosecutors who allowed and did not respond to violations of Ukrainian legislation. Sergey Shevchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to implement decisions of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and to inflict material damage on citizens who received State acts on land and started construction on the territory of the Glavikhiv village council of the Basilk district of Kiev. Zinoviya Shkutzaka and Vladimir Vizewski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts of the alleged illegal conduct of the management of the Kyiv city organization Memorial, the Museum of Soviet occupation, and the Civil Institute of Historical Memory. Lilia Grigorovich, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the implementation of the constitutional right to housing by Ukrainian citizens. Paul Silent to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for violating the order of business by the owners of the Mtkwara cafe in Kiev. Irina Gerashchenko and Olga Gerasimük are headed by the Kyiv City Administration, the Kyiv City Council for the extension of the lease period of the premises of the Bookstore "Swive" and the restoration of the works of the bookstore. Yuri Odarchenka to the head of the Ministry of Interior in Kiev regarding the establishment of persons responsible for violations of the rights of citizens at peaceful meetings on 24 August 2011. Thus, honourable members of the people, 122 parliamentary requests were made, including one addressed to the President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now consider the issues set out in the September 23rd schedule. A draft law on documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u3	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the committee in accordance with the commission of July 5th of this year for a second reading table of the draft Ukrainian Law on documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Konovaluk, Zarubinski, Moses, Coastal, Budgerak. [[Registration number 8507]] In general, 134 amendments and proposals have been made to the bill by such Ukrainian national deputies, without names, according to the father. Deputy Carmazin is 13 amendments, one of which is counted, one is listed as editorial, the other is rejected. There are nine amendments, nine of which are taken into account. Konovalukom is 41 amendments. Of these, 35 are counted, 3 are counted in part, 3 is rejected. Nibbles - 9 amendments. Of these, 8 are counted. And the people's deputy, Taran, three repairs. One of them is edited. I would like to point out that two amendments were made by national deputy Viktor Vasilovich Taran. [[Terra]] So please consider them not rejected, but those that he officially recalled when considering the second reading at the committee meeting. [[It's a technical moment.]] It's important. Victor Petrovich’s crust is 27 amendments. Of these, 24 are counted, 3 is rejected. The shishkin is 13 amendments. Of these, 5 are counted, 8 is rejected. Kulikovi – 3 repairs. Of these, two are counted, one is rejected. The leather is 13 amendments. Of these, 10 are counted, 3 is rejected. Myrrhichenko is 2 fixes. Of these, 2 are rejected. And Barranov's is 1 amendment and it's counted. Thus, the honourable colleagues, of 134 amendments and proposals by the people’s deputies, 96 amendments are taken into account, 33 amendments are rejected and 3 amendments are partially taken into account, and 2 amendments are taken into account editorially. I would like to point out that during the committee's consideration of the amendments, there were the authors of these amendments, the national deputies of the Ukraine of Shishkin, Konovaluk, Gretzak. And before it's obvious to go to a serious table like this, I would like to point out that the actual adoption of this bill concludes the formation of a legislative bloc in Ukraine's visa-free dialogue with the European Union and corresponds to the Presidential Order of Ukraine on the liberalisation of our visa relations with the European Union. Once again, I want to emphasize that, in fact, we are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u4	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u5	In fact, today we can complete this first but most difficult stage of legislative regulation of all things, all the moments that will allow us to move on to the practical plane of our foreign policy in this queen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the amendments. Amendment 1 Yuri Anatolyovich, insists that Karmazin is on it or not? Microphone, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u7	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! In general, the law is not bad, but there is work to be done. I suggest you put the name of the project in the following line: The Ukrainian law on documents certifying the person, his special status and confirming the citizenship of Ukraine. Since the bill proposes to regulate not only extradition, production, removal and other activities relating to documents that identify a person and support his or her citizenship, it is about documents that recognize his or her special status. So I think the sphere of action should be reflected in its name. In addition to everything else, I pay attention to the discrepancy with the People's Deputy Status Act and the humiliation of the status of the National MP in this law. There's my 46th amendment. By the time we get to it, I want the people's deputies to look, we've raised the status of the person that no one chooses, the heads of the administration, and we've dropped the status of Parliamentary. There's no such thing anywhere in the world. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u8	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u9	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I'm answering very specifically. We did not raise the status of the person you called because the corresponding amendment of Yuri Romanovich Miroshnicka was rejected. But it'll be later, yeah, you'll see. With regard to your advance amendment of the 46th, I will very carefully base it on coming out of the People's Deputy Status Act. With regard to the 1 amendment, you have actually talked about it, there is already the title of the bill, which we have proposed, more specifically, the subject of the legislative initiative, and this is already in the Order on Liberalisation by the European Union of Visa Procedures for Ukraine since 22.04.2011. I'm not going to name this decree, but it already has a whole name for this bill, including in the liberalisation negotiation process. We got out of this, get it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u10	The 1st amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:34:18]] For the 10th. Not supported. 3rd Amendment, Carmazin. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u11	Yuri Carmazin. It is a pity that you did not support the amendment, and we are bound by what was written for us in the Commandment. I would ask that we think that we are the higher legislature, not the executives. And the law has a higher legal power. I just know that you, Mr. Olege, know that. And if we were to change that name, it would be the right thing to do and it would be the right thing to do. In Article 1, in the first paragraph of paragraph 2, I propose that the following wording read: "Visual check zone is defined by the clear limits of the surface of the document for visual determination of its trueness." I think that in contrast to the editorial proposed by the project's authors, the definition of the "visual check zone" will be more widespread, where it is defined only as a group designed for visual control of the area of the document. Well, I'd like you to agree that I have a better editor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u12	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I can tell you that we have discussed this amendment seriously enough with the involvement of experts, including experts in international law. Let me explain why. The formula that remains in the first edition, the first readings, the "visual check zone" is a group that is designed to visually control the areas of the document that are not taken from the ceiling. Moreover, I want to say that we do not exist in a vacuum, and, thank God, Ukraine is not an isolated state. According to the technical definition and definition of ICAO, I think that many colleagues know that this is a respectable, serious organization that, by the way, gives the glossary that is often used in Ukrainian legislation, there is this definition of "visual inspection zones." The practice of ICAO, the International Aviation Safety Organization, confirms that this definition is correct. Thank you for your attention. Please don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u13	The 3rd amendment is a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:36:47]] For-16 Not supported. Carmazine, 14th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u14	7th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u15	7th? Let's do the 7th. Seven count, I'm sorry. 7th count. 14th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u16	Got it. Corrections. Number 14 in part one, I propose to merge paragraphs 3 and 4 and to put out a new paragraph 3 as follows: “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the foreign diplomatic institutions of Ukraine and other central executive bodies that are established and operating in the established legal order”. [[Next – MSS]] Because paragraphs 3 and 4 of this rule propose to refer to the list of authorized entities that apply this law, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, foreign diplomatic institutions, as well as ministries and other central executive bodies that are established and functioning in order and in the manner provided for in the Act on Central Executive Authorities. At the same time, these organs are included in the list at different points using extra terms, I think. So I think paragraph 3 needs to be put in the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u17	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Regrettably, I have to say that the amendment has some inaccuracies in the proposed amendment. It lies in the fact that the law on central authorities does not spread abroad. This is the subject of the regulation of another law, "The Diplomatic Service." So you have to say that we rejected the 14th and the next 15th amendment because it's the same thing. Once again, this is the scope of the Diplomatic Service Act, not the central authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u18	Don't you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? 15th Amendment. Please, 15th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u19	Adam Ivanovich! Yuri Carmazin. The point is, I was just about to say that the 4th point is the law, but because they're related -- 14th and 15th -- I don't insist that we put it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u20	Taran, 19th. Don't insist. Shishkina, 22nd. Don't insist. Kulikov, 23rd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u21	I insist. What I want to say is why I made it. Correction to make an amendment. This is the purpose of this law. The purpose of this law is to enable commercial structures to print these forms. My amendment says that all these forms are printed by government agencies. Justification. The CoR writes: "The shortcomings of the legislative base allow commercial structures to be involved in the procedures for ordering the production of documents, resulting in the loss of State control over the manufacture of forms and their circulation, which poses a threat to national security." Irina Akimov, Deputy Chief of the President's Administration: "We must make a decision and stop feeding EDAPS." Kluev, Deputy Prime Minister: "Our task is to reduce the number of services that require forms. The value of the forms is often hundreds of times higher." To date, if we move forward with this law, we are moving forward what Nikolay Janović Azarov calls the budget 'creatures'. I demand that this function be returned to the Power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u22	Can I answer that? Thank you. Dear colleagues, the names of the commercial structures in the law are neither there nor there. Moreover, when we virtually decided by consensus to approve this table at a committee meeting, by consensus, I emphasize that it was not the purpose of the law for someone to determine what to do. The aim is to make a comprehensive law, where it would be defined, what documents should be, what quality of these documents are, and that would be in line with European Union legislation and established practice. Once again, there's no question of commercial structures at all. What is more, it is obvious that when these quality documents are produced, please the State may announce the tender. Since then, Ukrainian passports have been printed, and money has been printed in Canada. But in answering absolutely, without moving away from your question, I have to formulate a position, an antitrust legislation, part of a third, article 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine on this, article 42: "Everyone has the right to entrepreneurial activity, which is not prohibited by law. The state provides for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u23	Oleg Aleksandrovich, vote 23rd. I'd like to make a statement. And then we won't vote. [[10:42:15]] For-21 Not supported. Yes, please, Carmazin, 34th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin. It is a pity that we did not now support the amendment of colleague Kulikov, where he spoke of the production of state-owned enterprises, rather than the requirements for forms. Formal requirements, of course, do. Maybe according to ISO standards, but we're wrong right now. And I'd like to think that my colleagues think it's not just business that decides everything in this country. I propose in article 13 the first part after the words "the testimony of a Ukrainian citizen is." Fill in the word "additional", and then follow the text. Since the draft law defines a basic document that identifies a person and confirms the citizenship of Ukraine as a passport card, another document that certifies a person is accordingly additional, since it does not contain the full amount of information about the person and his legal status. So it's suggested that when you open up the concept of "Civil Certificate" you define the type of document you want to make impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u25	Can I talk? Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Well, here, I think you'll agree with me and the committee members that actually this amendment is not worth looking at right now, but maybe if you want to vote, but you shouldn't. Why? Because it makes changes to article 13. And article 13 was completely removed from the bill by the working group. Clearly, then, we should not consider changes to what is being removed from the scope of the entire article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u26	Yuri Anatolyovich, I see, agrees. Please, your 36th microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u27	Adam Ivanovich, the point is that at the time that I made the amendment, Mr. Olege, and my amendment number 34a, and my amendment number 36 to this article, they were relevant, and through. And then we took into account the amendment of colleague Konovaluk -- 33rd and then, of course, after considering it, it couldn't have been. That's why the 33rd, the 34th amendment and the 36th amendment failed, Adam Ivanovich, in their vote, well, because they're in an article that's already being deleted by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u28	Thank you. Thirty-eight of your repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u29	Yuri Carmazin. In article 38, in amendment 38, I propose in article 14 the following article, which will now be 13 on the right column, in part five, in paragraph 5 of the letter "W" replace by the words "foreign diplomatic institutions" to introduce this change to reveal the definition of "W" is hooliganism, you know, when I tell you this as Mr. Oleg's lawyer, it's hooliganism when we bring this "W" into law, "W" and so on. We didn't finish with you guys, but whoever finished was finishing up other institutions after PTU. Therefore, this content of the abbreviation in the draft is not defined in article 1 that defines the terms or other rules of the law. I think that using a given acronym without revealing its contents is legally invalid. Therefore, I propose to replace the words “foreign diplomatic institutions”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u30	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I did not finish PTU, but other universities did, although I respect those people who also finished PTU. But in this case, I don't think you're quite right, because in Glossary* and you've seen it, you've introduced this shortcut in a foreign state institution, and more than that, it's explained. And if it were your will then it would be possible not to consider this amendment at all. Because you put it to 38 as an amendment, and by text you have this shortcut, abbreviation, if you want to use it often enough. But once again I want to say that the glossary explains this shortcut in its full name, which is a foreign state institution. Agree with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u31	Yuri Anatolyovich agrees. 46th Amendment, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u32	Yuri Carmazin. I now address the opposition, and the coalition, to all the national MPs. Underlining, national MPs. This amendment foresees when a diplomatic passport is issued to Ukraine. That's why I asked, let's change the name of the law, because it's a little bit different here. Thus, a diplomatic passport is offered and appears to be issued to authorized persons, and a list of whom is still available. I suggest in part five that we complete this amendment with a new sub-paragraph 6 with the words "national deputy of Ukraine" after the words "head of the President's Administration," which is counted by Konovaluka, Mr. Oleg. Although you said no. 45 is listed here as "Heads of Administration." Justification. Since the national MP is a representative of the Ukrainian people, including the Ukrainian people, who live abroad and are authorized to exercise their authority, article 1 of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u33	I think we're clear. Chechatov. Chechetov, please Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, I think we should not disagree with the iron and convincing logic of Yuri Anatoleevich Karmazin. Of course, support is needed to ensure that the status of the national MP is not divested. But I propose that two more amendments be made in order to increase the mobility of the executive and include a list of posts for whom a diplomatic passport is issued on a permanent basis, the First Deputy Prime Minister and the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Sometimes the journeys are instantaneous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u35	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, I'll tell you what the argument is, and we'll make a decision. Because I understand she's interested in everyone. We have come from the point that this article deals with the term of office, the post, and the deputies act during the term of parliamentary office. Well, you know that very well. The term of parliamentary authority is now 5 years old, so it was previously issued a diplomatic passport on the date when the person, Ivanov, Petrov or Ivanenko, Petrenko were representatives authorized by representatives of the Ukrainian people in the one and not the other, in the sole legislative body of Ukraine. But it's your will, it's up to the Supreme Council. To a large extent, this is not a legal decision, but perhaps a political one. The committee decided to reject it. I'll tell you what it is, your right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, let's make it legal, we'll write to the "national deputies at the time of the exercise of parliamentary powers" and we'll understand everything. Not in office. add what is at the time of execution, because the national deputies are also those who do not already exercise authority. That is, only those who exercise parliamentary powers. Those who are acting deputies. Yeah, well, then we're going to fix 46th Carmazin with what Chechtev brought, because there are actually cases when it's necessary in the middle of the night. can't be the manager, and the first deputy has to be there or somewhere else. I'm putting these two amendments to the vote. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u37	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u38	In view of the fact that the national deputies are in office at the time of the execution of the parliamentary powers. Of course. It's written down. [[10:51:09]] For 293 Thank you. Copy that. With regard to the Deputy Prime Minister and the First Vice Prime Minister and the First Deputy, it was written on the post, the position. 47th, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u39	47th Carmazin is out of the 46th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u41	Thank you. I got it, you got it, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u42	Yes, Miroshnichenko. 51st, please, Kleuchkowski. It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u43	Thank you. Yes, it's counted. Yuri Klukkowski. Well, since we're working with wheels, we've just been handed out this comparative table, we have to read very carefully and not everything is running out. I think that what's written here, and finally what was adopted in the first reading, violates the constitutional powers of the President of Ukraine. What is the name of the body that creates the President of Ukraine to provide for its own activities, the law is impossible to establish, because this is the prerogative of the President of Ukraine, this is his constitutional mandate. If we write down the name here, we are also unconstitutionally restricting the President. Therefore, the names either "secretariat" or "administrative" should be avoided and written as stated in the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u44	Do you want to hear it? Is there no objection? So we're going to edit this, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u45	What's more, we've been thinking about this question, it's, believe me, it's completely irrelevant, it's technically editorial. Yeah, no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u46	You're going to write a rule out of the Constitution. Miroshenko, 54th. Don't insist. 55th. Please, Klukkowski. Klukkowski's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u47	Thank you very much. As the reporter rightly says, we need to look closely at the glossary when certain terms are used. And over here, 55 amendments suggest replacing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the term "authorized subject." I don't know what an authorized entity is, but an authorized body on page 7 is an organ that deals with both property and migration. So I don't think it's possible to write such a vague word, because we don't know who's going to do that. We need to keep foreign passports outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u48	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. I'll explain. The point is that the law is adopted, taken into account, by the ruling of the People’s Deputy Korja, in connection with the exclusion from the text of the MMS Bill as an authorized body, that is, the point of the matter. I mean. Yes, yes, Yuri Bogdanovich. Excluded from the text and therefore we mark an authorized body. Well, that's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u49	I'll bet 55. You don't have to. It's a discussion. It's defined by voting anyway. I'm putting the 55th amendment to the vote. It's counted by the committee, please confirm. [[10:55:16]] For 215 Who's in charge of coming back? Please vote. [[10:55:43]] For 246 We're back. I'll bet 55th Amendment on confirmation, vote. [[10:56:03]] For 246 Confirmed. Is that what we're talking about? Who insists on coworkers who are unaccounted for. Yuri Anatolyovich, do you have no further comments? Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 73. It is not that principled, but it will be important to many. In article 22, part two, add a new paragraph 13 to the following sentence: “The Special Status of a Person”. This standard defines the list of information to be included in the social certificate. However, the information listed does not contain information about the type of person’s special status. Since social recognition is a document that not only identifies a person but is a special status, I believe that information on the type of special status of a person should be placed on the front of the document card. Please be supportive. I think it's very important, though it's a technical moment, but it's important, Mr. Oleg. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u51	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Let me explain. When this amendment is proposed, it is not entirely clear which social status is involved. Why? The information contained in the identification of the insured person is already defined by the laws in force, Yuri Anatoliyovich, "On mandatory public social insurance against an accident in the production and occupational disease that caused the loss of work" and the name of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. So, in principle, there's no particular point in insisting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u52	Thank you. Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u53	Thank you. It'll be a little more serious here. See, please, what is the name of the law and what is the subject matter of this law. These are documents that support Ukrainian citizenship. In this regard, I have a question about how do I feel about documents that support Ukrainian citizenship if the first part of the 21 articles does not provide that it supports Ukrainian citizenship, and it is clear that it may appear to foreigners or non-citizens who live permanently in Ukraine? So, I think it's a subject of separate regulation, not this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u54	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. In principle, the argument will be the same as that offered by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin at the beginning of the examination of the table. He's already raised that question. I already said that absolutely in that way, the name is already fixed, it's fixed, you know that. But since I have 40 seconds left, I would like to say something very important. We're talking about benefits all the time, about not paying out clearly and all that. And you know that so far, no one in the state knows who to pay or not to pay the benefits to? And you know that people walk, in each pocket, some have four certificates, and there's no social certificate to identify the person clearly, which benefits, which category of benefits he refers to, and so on. I'm not answering your question, but I'm saying how important it is in the country to have a social certificate, it's important for the person himself not to be thrown out without being ignored by officials. This is a serious and very serious document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u55	Yes. Yuri Anatolyovich, what further amendment would you like to make?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, for those of you who don't have a table right now, I remind you that the article to which we are currently considering amendments is called "Pension card." And I know that now millions of people are listening to me, and they know how important the 77th amendment is going to be because I'm proposing to complete with a new paragraph 12 of this content: "From retirement," because there's a list of information that goes into the pension certificate, but there's no mention of the type of pension that a person gets. And since a pension certificate is a document that not only identifies a person but is a special status in the part of the assignment of a citizen of the pension, I believe that information on the type of special status should be placed on the face of the card of such a document. And I beg you, Mr. Oleg, agree, you've been working on this law seriously, all of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u57	I'm explaining. Yuri Anatolyovich, professionally responsible. The form and information contained in the pension certificate already defined by the National Social Insurance Act and so on are already defined by the Pension Insurance Act. The proposed changes, your dear colleague, will lead to a restriction — listen and think! – to restrict the rights of persons to receive a spouse’s pension and, as a result, to excessive and unjustified spending of budgetary resources again on reshaping the forms of documents. That's why the text that is allows it. Gives more opportunities including members of the marriage. And what you're saying is settled and hard enough already in the law. Thank you. That's 77th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin insists on the 77th amendment, so we should vote on it. Amendment 77 shall be put to the vote. Please identify yourself. [[11:02:46]] For-23 Correction not supported. We didn't hear. Next amendment. Yes, all other amendments are in agreement. Oleg Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u59	If you please, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues and those who are now listening to this really important bill is extremely important! I want to say one thing. We have seen with you a demonstration or a tablet of certain religious communities requiring them not to be subject to this law. I don't think we need to discuss whether it's on this ground or not, even considering the patriarchs' findings on the grounds that there's no such thing as the Bible or so on. But I don't think that's the subject of discussion. And that's why I made the amendment myself, and the committee members supported it, we included it, it's the 24th amendment, it's counted, and in the Transitional positions I'm going to read it. "For persons who, because of their religious or other beliefs, refuse to submit information to the contactless electronic media of information implanted in the relevant forms of documents, forms and issuance of such documents shall be carried out in accordance with the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for that category of persons." Thus, no religious preferences can be violated by this law. Sergey Anatolyovich, you know how thin this is, a painful problem, agree here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, one minute. Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not talk about religious motives, although we must not forget that there is a special decision by the synod of the Moscow Orthodox Church that states that there are no differences with religion and that no one in Russia has the right to give up such a digitization. But I have a warning against the word "and others." There is a decision by the Constitutional Court regarding the use of the word "and" in other contexts. It prohibits such things because it destroys legal certainty.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u62	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u63	So I suggest we rule out "and others," and we're going to live religiously somehow.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u64	Yuri Bogdanovich, thank you. You're right, you're right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, we must vote. And there's absolutely logic here, because everyone else is going to become 100% unidentified.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u66	You're right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u67	Let's say, "for people who, because of their religious beliefs," continue to follow the text, and the term "or others" will be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u68	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u69	I'll bet, I'll put this motion to a vote, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u70	For.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u71	Please vote. [[11:05:54]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. A number of comments were made by the Chief Legal Authority. That's why there's this proposal: to put a second-reading vote on the adoption, and generally, as a law on the task of legal administration in preparing to sign a technical law, I would like to stress to you, technical law, without any other temptations, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u72	Yes, we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u73	I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote in favour of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the Law on Documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine. Registration number 8507, please vote. [[11:07:01]] For 257 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we have practically made all the decisions we need to make. In order to move the visa-free regime to a practical plane, I mean to sign corresponding agreements with the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now consider the draft Law on Banking Funds. Sergey Teryohin will report. Sergey Anatolyovich, why don't we take this as a shortcut? The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. I am voting on this proposal, namely the consideration of the draft Law on Banking Funds, under a reduced procedure. Registration number 9093, please vote. [[11:08:14]] For 226 Decision taken. The reporter is Sergey Terjohin from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u74	Good afternoon, dear fellows! For your consideration, we have a draft Law on Banking Funds, registration number 9093. The Committee on Finance, Banking, Taxes and Customs considered the law, recommended that the Supreme Council take it as a basis and adopt it in the first reading. Banking funds have been operating in Ukraine for more than 10 years. The figures for today are: there are not many participants, about 30,000 people, the amount of money involved, about 450 million dollars, the income of about 17 percent, which is positive in terms of inflation, receiving monthly pensions from these funds of more than 2,000 people today and the average pension amounting to 2,000, 150 dollars, which is quite large compared to the state pension. In particular, it should be noted that the funds of the banking government were introduced by the Securities and Stock Markets Act, and referred to the so - called institutional investors of the stock market. Also, the special nuances of regulating the activities of banks’ funds are provided for in the current Tax Code. Therefore, under the legal category of banks’ funds in financial legislation, unfortunately, there is no special law on their issues at present. In fact, it should be noted that it foresees the existence of the three main funds of the Banking Authority: Pension funds - pension payments, Children's funds - for targeted payments. Children and housing funds that do not exist today are provided for by this law for the purpose of housing payments. It is also suggested that certain requirements be laid down for fund managers’ banks, restrictions on funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u75	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u76	limits on the allocation of funds and introduce tools to guarantee the preservation of invested funds. And very briefly on the question of why this is done from a macroeconomic point of view. You can think of the constant lack of long-term investment resources and the financial system of Ukraine. This law closes, let's say, the gap that arose between the instruments of today's commercial banks and the non-bank financial institution, such as, let's say, mortgage lending funds. The Cabinet of Ministers supports this bill in its first reading, citing a number of comments that we will necessarily take into account on the second reading, the same was done by the National Bank. So the committee believes and I personally also have every reason to take this law as a basis and to adopt it in the Supreme Council in a reduced procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u77	Yes, thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Please sign up, your honors. Irina Heratschenko is referring the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u78	I'd like you to pass Arjevetine on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u79	Arjun, yes. Chechetov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill really deserves to be read first. All we need to remember is that this bill is in fact relevant to the second level of the non - state pension system. You know, we've booked on the first level of reform. And of course, in five years, we'll probably get to level two. And this bill will be a kind of pioneer. And that's why, of course, it's going to be hard for him to integrate. Now for the bill. In fact, the author Polachenko studied experience in many countries of the world. You know, there was an experiment 10 years old in accordance with the President's decree. By the way, it would be appropriate for the MPs to get acquainted with that 10-year experiment. I think it would be very useful. When it comes to flaws. Of course, the long-term investments that I see here are in such an order, unprotected from inflationary risks, unprotected from the bankruptcy of that bank that will manage that fund. Because standards that are written, for example, if a bank has a problem, it's passed on to another bank. It's not that simple. The requirements of this bill are not enough to actually serve similar funds. The requirements for banks, for example, until now had been a major discussion. The Arkady Bank had its own money unit called "one." The National Bank even wanted to close this bank because there's some kind of monetary unit. It is not clear what a bank that serves these should have its own building programs. Even the word "its" in the text, I don't think it's very appropriate. The terms for termination of the contract are not valid. There is a conflict of interest between the management of this fund and the custodian of securities. Well, clearly, for example, in the bill of reference, it's that the housing savings agreement is a contract that will determine according to the experiment that was in the holding. I think it's inappropriate. But for first reading, this bill deserves to be read. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u81	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u82	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, a bill tabled by the Ukrainian national deputy, indeed, the Grand Letter builder, I emphasize, the Grand Letter builder, Volodymyr Avrumovich Polachenko, proposes to regulate legislatively the legal basis for the establishment and operation of the bank government funds. In this context, it is also envisaged to amend the laws of Ukraine on joint investment institutions, on insurance, on non-state pension insurance, on compulsory government pension insurance. The bill is aimed at further expanding the social security opportunities of the population of Ukraine, disseminating the experience of housing on account of the cost involved, as well as the experience of using mechanisms and tested models of non-state pensions. The draft law provides for three types of bank management funds: pension funds for pension payments; children for the purpose of targeted payments. Children and housing is for the purpose of paying housing benefits. In addition, the bill proposes, inter alia, to set certain requirements for banks, managers of bank management funds, requirements and restrictions on the allocation of funds for these funds, instruments to guarantee the preservation of citizens' funds, payment mechanisms for investors of the funds mentioned, and so on. The faction of the Party of the Regions suggests that the session hall support the bill of National MP Vladimir Avrumovich Polachenko in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u83	Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u84	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this bill in the first reading, referring to one circumstance. This law will indeed have a bearing on the reform of the pension system, namely, the second level of its component, and this means that the document must be written with extreme care, since the second level is mandatory. When it comes to the level of friction, it is voluntary to take risks. And here the guarantor must be the state and especially the legislation that was created. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill. Indeed his author, the man who was obviously one of the first to walk in this direction, is working with.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u85	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u86	And so there is a need to accept it and, once again, to write very carefully for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! Yes, Vladimir Kaplienko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u88	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will support this bill in the first reading, and so far only in the first. Why? Of course, the positive thing is that we create such a diverse institution and we start a retirement, children's and, there, a housing fund of banking institutions. Absolutely. Bank management, if you'll excuse me. This is certainly a positive thing. I support my colleague Arjevetin that this is actually going to be integrated or the first attempt to create such, you know, a second level of pension insurance, maybe. But here's the question. How much better would it be for Ukrainian citizens to put their money in such funds? How do they differ from the simple, such as the retirement deposit that is in effect today? Because this deposit is protected by at least 150,000. And according to this law, the bank itself determines the structure of the investment portfolio of the pension fund. And the second question. How we can protect against the bankruptcy of our pensioners who are deployed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u89	Please finish or do you have anything else? Microphone, please. Everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u90	Yeah, I'm done. I think under any circumstances this law needs to be supported, but to work hard on the second reading to protect the money of those who do not have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u91	Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u92	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I'm going to let myself disagree with the people's deputies in assessing this bill and that's why. This is about transferring funds to the trust of Ukrainian citizens. I see a whole bunch of risks here. The first risk is that such fund-raising is not accompanied by the State's protection of citizens' deposits, as is the case with deposits. The other one. The bill allows banks to invest these funds in very risky financial transactions: shares, bonds, debt securities. You can see what's going on with the stock. Third. It's also of questionable value to banks, because banks need to guarantee inflation-inflation-inflicted depreciation -- it's not bank-owned stuff. Four. There is no government regulator for these operations. So there are very high risks that the cost of the citizens involved will be lost, and people will be lost. It's only going to be an elite center with banks involved. So I see doubt for the banks themselves. So very carefully let's go to this bill, not so simple in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u93	Sergey Teryohin, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, thank you for the fruitful discussion. Sadly, the last two speakers failed to comply with this law. Unlike Elite, where there's no guarantee of return, there's no guarantee of return now, there's no guarantee of return, all the bank's assets are subject to the general rules set by the National Bank of Ukraine. And this money is also covered by the Fund’s Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals. So, on the contrary, this law increases the protection of the population's investments, because not as it is now, the non-bank financial institution exists there, the mortgage fund, some management company that then coincides with Cyprus, but there will be a bank that will deal alternatively with such non-bank financial institutions in the same way, guaranteeing all its balance. So this is the biggest possible protection for citizens' investments. That's why it's taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u95	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u96	With that in mind, let's support this bill on the basis. On the second reading, I invite everyone to give their warnings and demands, and we will consider them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I'm asking you, your honor, to support him in his first reading on the basis that he needs to be further worked on, and given that he is on the phone every day, he's looking after this bill by Vladimir Avrumovich Polachenko. And let's not just support the bill, but support Vladimir Polachenko. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Funds of the Banking Authority. [[Registration number 9093]] Please vote. [[11:22:41]] For 326 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, two factions: the Faction "BUT" – "Fatherland", the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", made a statement requiring a recess to hold consultations on issues of order and declaration. At the same time, the faction is ready to make a statement, honourable colleagues, and, at the same time, the faction is ready to make a statement. Who will act? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, they can, dear colleagues, they can make a statement without taking breaks without taking breaks. The helmet will come out, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u98	Statement: "It is now 50 days since Julia Timoshenko is in prison without any legal basis on the illegal and absurd decision of Judge Kiriev. Its violent immorality is evidenced by her health, which continues to deteriorate, and a personal physician has been denied access to it for a month and a half. And this is called the construction of a civilized, democratic state today. The court declared a two - week recess, even though the authorities had previously tried to complete the trial of Timoshenko as quickly as possible, violating all legal procedures. The directors of the opposition trial were afraid of an international reaction. They already realize that if the so - called trials against the opposition on fabricated criminal cases continue, Ukraine and its authorities will find themselves in complete international isolation, and then the end. Moreover, Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko and other opposition representatives, who today are illegally held in prison, will never go to questionable devices with power and will never play the role of formal opposition. The acting authorities today need to give serious thought. on the immediate release from prison of Julius Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, and other prisoners of conscience, to halt and dismiss absurd trials against them. The authorities should ensure that the courts are able to prosecute in accordance with the law, not in accordance with the orders of counsellors. The international community, the country’s lawyers, has clearly acknowledged that the case against Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, and their associates is exclusively political. Even law enforcement officials talk about this. The disgraceful court in many of them is awe - inspiring and indignant. Today, the logic of the court has come to understand: the destruction of opposition and any dissension, the intimidation of people and their hope for the future. Fear is the driving force and main motive for these actions. Fear of losing the opportunity to pillage the country with impunity, the immoderate rate of increasing its profits at the expense of the destitute, as demonstrated by yesterday’s State Budget and the majority’s vote over the abolition of all human benefits. We remind ourselves that there is adequate opposition to each action. This is confirmed by the recent protest action at the Supreme Council. The Liuliya Timoshenko faction – "The Fatherland" requires the authorities to immediately stop the judicial farce and the abuse of the leaders of the opposition, close the order of criminal cases and stop the total destruction of the judicial branch of power. We demand that the final phase of the court be made public, broadcast on television. Surrender before it's too late! After all, each of you may be affected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u99	Finish up, please. Dear National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of Multi-House Houses on the first-line lease of land. Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Jaroslav Ivanovich Jodžik, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee's subcommittee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy Sergey Fedorovich Majbord. I'll bet you a vote on your proposal, your esteemed colleagues, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:27:23]] For 208 Decision taken. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u100	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In recent years, there has been a tendency to deteriorate the technical status of the housing fund and maintenance yoga. The existing housing management system, in which the housing and maintenance organization simultaneously acts as a customer and performer of the services of the sphere, has proved ineffective. The alternative to maintaining and exploiting the housing fund is the new forms of self-organization of the population — the Union of Co-owners of Multiple Houses. On January 1, 2011, there were 12,000 OSBBs in Ukraine, which is only 15 percent of the number of houses. In line with the reform programme, it is planned to create 45,000 OSBBs by the end of 2014, which will be about 70 per cent. At the same time, the creation of OSBB in some cases is hampered by the lack of interest in local self-government authorities, the unsatisfying technical status of part of the housing fund, the lack of public awareness of the benefits of OSBB, and the inadequacy of individual legislation. Thus, we have proposed standards that eliminate the most significant shortcomings. In Ukraine, a catastrophic situation arose when the building was built in a large area without the consent of the householders. Using the shortcomings of existing legislation that have led to the creation of OSBBs, participants in such associations have lost their ability to operate buildings in a quality manner. Moreover, the rental process itself causes legal and financial difficulties for the residents of such dwellings. With a view to solving these problems, it is proposed to grant priority renting to the land in which these dwellings are located within the limits defined by the local authorities at the time of receipt.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u101	Please, the microphone. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u102	The cost of renting land in which these dwellings and adjuvant areas are located is borne by local authorities and financed by appropriate local budgets. Taking into account the above proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u103	Thank you, too. Sergey Fedotovich, please, Maiborda. Please provide information on the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! The Committee agrees with the intention of the authors of the bill to create additional conditions for the education and rental of cooperatives in multi-housing residential homes, which are governed by article 41 of the Ukrainian Land Code and are not subject to the regulation of the Law on Multi-housing House Associations, as proposed by the bill; secondly, the granting to associations of owners of the right to lease land before 1 January 2015 is contrary to article 22, part 3, of the Ukrainian Constitution, since the provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land and articles 42 and 92 provide for the possibility to form associations of owners not only for renting, but also for ownership of land plots in which multi-housing houses are located, as well as suitable buildings, buildings and home territories. Thirdly, it is not appropriate to support the transfer of land to which multi-housing dwellings are located and where societies of owners are established by other legal and natural persons, as proposed by the bill, since such land may be transferred either to a lease or to the exclusive property of the owner society under article 42 of the Ukrainian Land Code. At the conclusion of the budget committee, the bill had an impact on the spending of local budgets by increasing them. The Chief Research and Expert Office considers it advisable to reject the bill. By decision of the Committee of 8 September 2010, it is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the draft Act amending the Law on the Integration of Owners of Multi-housing Houses on the Priority of Preservation of Land. [[Registration number 6425]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u105	Do you have it or not? Thank you. Please sign up for a discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u106	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Please give John Alexander the Hare the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u107	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, please give your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u108	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! I'm still asking you to support this bill, because it is very important to encourage this process of creating multi-housing houses. It is a matter of giving priority to the temporary rental of land in which these dwellings and accommodating territories are located within defined local self - government authorities at the time of obtaining permission to build them. Why am I asking you to do this? There are a lot of examples, and we see that it is the land that the instigators today become objects of contention, that they want to build something, that they want to bear the trees. I can give examples of even buildings on Panas Mirno Street, 27 of them building one, they started climbing into this territory, because there were other ways to build. This has destroyed a large number of citizens. In short, we always have big problems. So if we're actually going to write these instigating territories behind those OSBs that are going to be created, we're going to eliminate the grounds for major contradictions. We're clearing the ground for a lot of stress. And in the end, people will understand that they're creating this OSBB not just to solve problems in the middle of the house itself, there, whether from water supply or heat or something. And they'll be monitoring the territory itself. They're going to greenish it, they're going to break some flowers there, they're finally going to create a situation so that there's some kind of playground. And so that the children can rest. I mean, this community has the right to live a full, normal, human life. That's what this bill is about. So let us not seek any comfort here. And the MP who wants to reduce the level of opposition in our society is obliged to vote in favour of the bill. Because it's designed to remove all these contradictions, and finally to give citizens the right to manage what they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u109	Alexander Edin, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! This bill is designed to solve really important problems with regard to the arrangement for the transfer of multi - apartment house owners to the rental of land in which these houses and trailers are located. In Ukraine, the merger of joint owners of a multi - apartment building is a relatively new organizational form of farming. Today, legislation does not yet have a clear mechanism for uniting and managing multi-house owners. In practice, the distribution of existing sites of land - owned organizations did not take into account the fact that different areas of the city were provided with free land, various configurations of houses, and the density of settlements. In addition, the changes proposed by the bill allow for the transfer of land to which houses are located, where the joint owners of the apartment building are united, to other legal and physical persons, besides unification, although such land areas are to be on balance with the multi - apartment building’s coowners. So I think that the bill still needs substantial work to be done, and I suggest that it be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, please, someone else. Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u112	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, I would like to express a different view of the very idea proposed by the author and how this idea is being implemented. The faction of the Company of Ukraine supports the very idea of this, which is set out in this law, which prompted the authors to draft a bill, that is to say, an attempt to create a certain preference for members of the respective cooperative and co-owners of the house. But the way they try to solve this problem does not solve the problem completely. One speaker said that the law would solve both the problem and the problem. He will not solve anything, for the matter is that the subject matter of this law is the subject of the knowledge of another law. So we're going to create if, in case we're adopting this law, we're going to create a conflict of two laws. And then the citizens will find themselves in a situation where some people will rely on one law and treat it that way, and others will be different. All right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u113	Please complete your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u114	So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to reject the bill. The main scientific and expert office also recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject this bill. So in accordance with the requirements of the Rules, I will make a proposal for acceptance as a basis. If the Supreme Council fails to support it, the bill will automatically be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Uniting Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House. [[concerning the receipt of the first-time lease for land]] [[Registration number 6425]] [[11:38:59]] For the 15th. The decision is not supported. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for the consideration of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws prohibiting the conduct of mass media checks during the pre-election campaign period. [[Registration number 7282]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. The focal point is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Upper Sergey Petrovich. Irina Volodymyrna, so maybe we'll consider a shorter procedure to make it to the break, right? Dear colleagues, the motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:39:56]] For 214 Decision taken. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u116	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This bill is the collective work of the members of the Commission, the TSC on investigating the facts of censorship and the pressure on journalists. In fact, we remember that each year the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes special decisions prior to the elections to announce a moratorium on the re-examination of the media during the pre-election campaign period. Last year, 2010, when the election company went to the local authorities of the Supreme Council, it was only a week before it made a proper decision on the moratorium, which caused such a total negative response and the media and experts and society. And so we suggest that the rule of extracurricular checks be introduced into the relevant laws so that this is agreed upon by law. Because it starts less than a year later, the election campaign and it's extremely relevant in today's media environment to ensure that journalists are provided with any pre-planned tests for this time. Because, unfortunately, this is the situation where extracurricular checks are carried out by authorities authorized to exercise appropriate control and are used as a measure of pressure on the media. So I propose to support this bill, given that it has the signatures of the authors, the representatives of all the factions of the Parliament of the Supreme Council. Thank you. Ukrainian Parliament, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u117	You all have it, don't you? Thank you. Sergei Petrovich Podgorny, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u118	Dear voters, Your Honor presiding, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council, reviewed the draft Act of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the prohibition of the conduct of mass media checks during the pre-election campaign, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Heraszczenko, Sinchenk, Bondarenko and others at its meeting on 6 July 2011. Conclusions were also considered on the bill of committees of the Supreme Council. Yes, the Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine noted that the bill was registered according to articles 90, 91, 92 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The Committee on Budget Affairs has determined that the bill has no impact on the budget. The Committee on Legal Policy believes that the provisions of the bill are in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. The European Integration Committee notes that the bill does not conflict with Ukraine’s international legal obligations and suggests recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information decided that it was appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole when it was considered in the first reading. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has expressed a number of comments to the bill and believes that the first reading of the bill is a good way to get it back to the subject of the legislative initiative. The National MPs of Ukraine, members of the committee, agreed on the need to implement the initiative of the drafters of the bill and to prohibit, during the pre-election campaign period, bodies and officials authorized by law to carry out public oversight and control of the media regardless of the form of ownership, to carry out their verification, if that is not required by the electoral authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u119	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u120	Since this will help create conditions for objective and unhindered media coverage, organization and preparation of elections in Ukraine, respect for the principles of publicity, openness of the electoral process, freedom of pre-election agitation, and the legislative guarantee of Ukraine’s right to freedom of speech in Ukraine. In summary, the committee adopted a recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by a majority of the votes present at the National Deputies meeting, following a first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws prohibiting verification of the media during the pre-election campaign period. [[Registration number 7282]] The relevant draft decree was submitted to Parliament for its consideration. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Names of the national deputies. Gryvkovsky refuses? Kulczynski Mikola, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction. And then there'll be Cappleyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u122	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Irina Heratschenko's bill is more than relevant, as it enhances freedom of information during the pre-election campaign. Although you have to immediately say that you have to write about the entire electoral process, not just during the electoral campaign period. It's one of the fundamental rights that our society has to protect like the pupil of an eye. And here, of course, there may be an exaggeration, but this freedom of democracy and the right to information, access to information, the right to get information to explain everything about the electoral process, is the legal and fundamental right of all voters. And the authorities have to stop this right from being guaranteed. Because of this, I propose that the people's deputies take this bill to vote as a basis for the first reading, and for the second reading, to make all the necessary amendments, to agree that this law would be passed long before the electoral process could begin, which could already talk about at least signal the public that Ukrainian politics, Ukrainian society would not forge elections, by adopting just such a law as would ensure the right of journalists to fully explain the electoral process. Once again, I ask you to support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u123	National MP Zadirko, please, the Reform Group for the Future. The next one will be the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u124	Parliamentary Group Reforms for the Future, National Deputy Zadirko, People's Authority. Dear colleagues, I am the person who, as director of the television company, has conducted not one election campaign, and I want to say that in the reality of today's situation before this bill, I would probably introduce a moratorium on the conduct of not three months of electoral campaigns, but perhaps a moratorium for the entire year 2012, and that would be correct. And that would be right, because today we see and feel the means, especially the regional media, the influence that is being exerted on them today. I can't help it. And frankly, this bill doesn't really solve all the problems, because there's still a concept like audits, inspection, surveillance, testing. We know that it can come in front of the MCS and shut down the TV company, and that's what you can do. And it seems to me that before the second reading, we still have to work on this bill. I can't help but mention the competition that the National Television and Radio Council held on August 17th. Dear colleagues, those television companies that worked for 15-20 years on air, which are television companies that. The peers of our independence were not licensed. No West Ukrainian television company was licensed for digital language. Today, it can be said that the authorities are already under serious pressure on these companies. Today you can say that there is a clearing of the information space of Ukraine. Therefore, our task today, as members of the Supreme Council, is to do everything possible to ensure that freedom of speech exists in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u125	Thank you, too. National Deputy Gorbatuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! The situation of the project does not provide for legal regulation of the issues and has significant shortcomings that may lead to misunderstandings in practical application. In particular, the proposed rules do not fully protect the media from aggressive outside interference in their electoral activities. The explanatory note to the bill suggests that its adoption aims to remove legal administrative, economic, and organizational obstacles to media coverage of the electoral campaign. However, the text of the bill proposes to prohibit media screening only, although other forms of control, such as audits, inspections, surveillance, testing, etc., may also be used by the State’s supervisory authorities. The project focuses attention on the inadmissibility of testing during the electoral process of the media as a management entity, but it does not take into account that it can be checked by public supervisory authorities in a different quality, such as advertising subjects, although such checks may also create significant obstacles to media activity during the electoral process. The project deals with the impossibility of conducting media screenings during the pre-election campaign period, but according to the provisions of the legislative acts to which amendments are proposed, the right to conduct pre-election agitation arises from the relevant subjects since their registration, which makes it impossible to clearly determine the start of pre-election agitation on a calendar basis. In addition, according to the Venice Commission, the media should be free to inform society and to raise all relevant questions about the elections. Therefore, the proposal to impose restrictions on media testing only during the pre-election campaign period, rather than the entire electoral process, is not well-founded and offers an overview. I suggest that the first reading of the bill should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u127	Yes, Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we have this unique practice, which means the more they praise the bill, the more obvious the conclusion that they won't vote for it. I'd like to, well, find some colleagues, some other arguments, because, well, that's funny, because we have some groups here that first go against government bills and then vote in favour. Some colleagues from fraternal government factions have told us that it is necessary to avoid checks all day long, but they say, but the law must be rejected. First position, before every election, I'm one of the initiators of such decrees, I've done more than one year, we've approved these bills, and there's enough intelligence to always support the opposition. Because, in fact, there is the principle of selective testing during the election campaign in the first place. When normal civilized life, of course, the National Television and Radio Council has the right to check both the host structures and the tax system. When the elections begin, especially with local officials, hands are scratched or hands closed, or they are roughly, for some media medium, and we have every choice. So I think the idea of the authors, by the way, who represent these factions, to make it the norm of electoral legislation and not to run in front of every election campaign with a separate decision is perfectly logical. The other thing is that you can write it in a different way, better, more perfect, or more clearly. What's more, we realize that, for example, this rule will be particularly duplicated by the National Council. After we have passed the law, the National Council takes the decision, tax takes the decision, and so on, as has always been done. So I think the first reading has enough reason to vote, if we really do, that the media is an important component of the democratic electoral process. And if we don't want to do the media, put them on a level playing field, not to do the selectivity situation, as is being done with the trials today, when, in a selective way, the opposition is being held in the WHO and the murderers and bandits are being released into the streets. The same will happen with the media. So I'm offering to support the bill in the first reading by the Yulia Timoshenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Obviously, we could be asked to go this way: considering that we will soon adopt the Law on Elections of People's Deputies, which will be of interest to everyone, I think it will be the law that will be carefully read not only in the sessional room, but also outside the session hall, including, outside Ukraine, it would be possible for us not to have mutual accusations of political moments here, to adopt this bill as a basis, and then, when we adopt the electoral bill, we will carry this rule, and so we will have an absolute compromise. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, dear fellows, I bring to your knowledge that the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert management believes that it is necessary to recommend that the draft be returned to the author for further work. So, dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a bill to amend some of the laws prohibiting the conduct of mass media checks during the pre-election campaign period. Registration number 7282. Please vote. [[11:55:29]] For-125 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please: Region Party – 1, "BUT – Fatherland" – 55, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 26, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, "The People's Party" – 20, non-fractional – 4. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development, as recommended by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Please vote, return the subject to the right of legislative initiative. [[11:56:11]] For 114 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! We now have the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on the granting of national status to a higher education institution and the appointment of managers]] At the same time, the author of the bill, Oléz Donj, wrote: "I ask you to withdraw the draft law that I have introduced." So I am voting on the motion to withdraw draft Law registration number 3328, in connection with the author’s application for draft law. [[Dear colleagues, please note.]] Please vote. [[11:57:18]] For 303 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Let's talk about it, we've got it. One minute, dear colleagues, I'd like to consult, and then there'll be a break. Maybe this is the way to go: we have five questions left to consider, we could consider them, we could go straight to the Difference, and then we would end up faster if you don't mind? If we work fast right now, we'll have half an hour -- we'll look at these issues, and then we'll have an hour of performances at the Miscellaneous, and we'll finish work around 1:30. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the draft Law amending article 16 of the master procedural code of Ukraine on the establishment of jurisdiction. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Vadim Koleznchenko, and the co-rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Justice. Both the bill's author and the committee are proposing to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[11:58:46]] For 208 Decision taken. Yes, Vadim Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've processed this bill on our profile committee. And for today, there's an offer to bring it back to work so that you can save time. And we made a more careful decision that met the requirements of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, since the committee's decision has been made by the author of the draft law, there is obviously a need to put the matter to a vote. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject's right to legislative initiative for the recast, please vote. [[Project registration number 7026]] [[11:59:55]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, he's introducing a draft of the Mediation Act. [[Registration number 8137]] Both the committee and the author propose to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[12:00:32]] For 205 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Ivanovich Tishchenko, co-reporter of the Justice Committee, Dmitry Mikitovich Pritica, will be the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u132	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Media Act. [[No.8137]] It is intended to introduce mediation at the legislative level as a means of non-judicial dispute management, which is different from the court's ruling that in mediation the dispute is decided solely by the parties through a mediator, that is, a mediator that helps the parties to reach a mutually agreed solution. Today, there has been a complete lack of legislation on mediation in Ukraine, while in the entire civilized world, this legal institution has been widely applied for many years, allowing courts to be dismantled from a large number of bureaucratic procedures and related costs, especially in small cases involving tens of thousands of Ukrainian courts, which have been awaiting their turn for years, to save the costs of the parties and the public costs of maintaining the courts, to preserve or restore the tolerant or friendly relationship between the parties to the dispute, to prevent corruption. The adoption of the Mediation and Implementation Act in Ukraine will contribute to the fulfilment of our state's international obligations towards world society and will become an integral part of Ukraine's integration into the EU. The main scientific and expert office and the Main Committee on Justice recommended that the bill be adopted in the first reading. In addition, some 10 reviews have been received, expert conclusions from the most authoritative law institutions in Ukraine and some foreign independent experts, most of whom are positive. All comments and suggestions made by experts can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. Please support the bill in the first reading and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u133	Thank you, too. Dmitry Mikitovich Pritica, please inform the Supreme Council of the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u134	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Justice considered at its meeting a draft Ukrainian Law on Media, submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Tishchenk. [[Registration number 8137]] As already pointed out by the author of the bill, the purpose of the bill is to create legal conditions and to legislate the general principles of the mediation of Ukraine, to introduce an alternative culture of dispute resolution without recourse to the formal system of litigation by introducing tolerant business negotiations between the parties through a third party, a mediator, and to work out a decision to be taken by the parties voluntarily. In this regard, a substantial reduction in the workload of the judiciary and the natural economy of state funds and the costs of individuals and legal entities who are parties to the dispute at the time of the resolution of conflicts and disputes can be expected. The principal scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the Institute of State and Law and the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After commenting on his comments, he believes that the second reading project needs substantial work. The committee, after considering the legislative initiative, also made a number of suggestions, including: that mediation is inappropriate in criminal matters, as well as in disputes involving the State, the territorial community and their bodies, state and municipal enterprises, minors, persons with limited efficiency in matters involving the interests of third parties, and so on. The project does not clearly define the status of organizations that carry out mediation, particularly whether they should be profitable or non-profit-making. The committee is also of the view that it is more appropriate to introduce a single certification system for mediators, perhaps based on a self-sustaining organization of mediators.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u135	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u136	With the introduction of the Single Register of Certification Mediators, not the imposition of these duties on an indefinite number of organizations that provide mediation, as proposed in the project. But taking into account the prospect of this form of dispute review, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft Mediation Act as a basis for the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, the committee is offering to take the floor. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. Who else has that to say? I can't see. May I put it to a vote? That's what I'm asking. Well, please sign in. Names, please. Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u138	Mikola Shershun faction of the People's Party. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I generally support the proposed legislative initiative. I think it's a nice initiative, which will allow the Ukrainian courts to be dismantled to some extent. Although there is a point, we must agree with the profile committee that criminal legal relations cannot be included in the field of mediation. In the case of a crime committed, it is not possible to apply a peaceful way of resolving a conflict because it is contrary to the basic principles of criminal law. Therefore, only the courts should deal with criminal matters. This question of the scope of the mediation requires a thorough review. There are other comments, but once again I emphasize that this is a good idea, and so I suggest you take it on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I want to thank the People's Deputy Tishchenko. I want to address all the national MPs today. This bill is not political, I ask him to support it. Yes, meditation has long existed in many parts of the world. We have a school at the Kiev-Mogilian Academy, where we created, back in 2008, the Ukrainian Mediation Centre. The Ukrainian Center for Understanding, the Odessa Mediation Group, is in operation. And it's also anti-corruption measures, and it's a reduction, a significant reduction, the workload of the courts, and it's for the benefit of society. We had a terrible, serious committee on this discussion, but we made a balanced decision, a legal decision to recommend in the first reading. I think that if there were such legislative acts, there probably wasn't a sad statement from our former colleague, and now the President's advisor, who, as the Parliamentary Press Service has written, and I want to quote Parliament's press service, is probably not going to say, "The efforts of Mrs. Herman to translate the legal decision into a political purely populist plane, emotional language statement and unceremonious events against the deputy corps and the only legislative body in Ukraine as a whole, testify to a complete misunderstanding of the legal realities, legal ignorance and a hypertrophyted review of the President's own role and place in Ukraine's political system. Acting on mythical pseudofacts and misconceptions about current legislation, Herman is essentially pushing his audience towards legal nihilism, open ignorance of the place, and the role of the legislative branch of power in thinking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u141	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u142	to think in an anti-constitutional spirit." Let me remind you that this is how she commented on our Parliament's decision to amend the Law to some of the legislative acts concerning the consequences of violations by judges, prosecutors and investigators of human rights and freedoms, a citizen established by the Constitution. I'll remind you that in the actual legislation, there are things that we're talking about: retirement, retirement, retirement for years and all. And on a large scale, Parliament was not wrong to say that, although there are details, and I voted in favour of adopting that law, but in the first reading. But to give an assessment to Parliament, to destroy, to say that everyone is sitting here, including their friends, not the least of them, I think the press service is right, but it's said too softly, and you have to give every official that grade. And I support what the Head of the Supreme Council did today when he sent out the orders, the heads of the department. There's nothing they can do here. There's a government, let there be a Prime Minister who's running something on some Olympic base today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u143	Thank you. Yes, Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u144	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Company of Ukraine supports this idea, more than that, we consider the idea not only normal, but also very timely. Because we all know, and this is even better known by those citizens who are forced to go to trial today, that the courts are now extremely crowded. People even have to decide their own civil interests, including social protection, in courts, and there is a tremendous amount of time to settle their issues. It's just that these traditions that are set out in the new law, we don't have a new project, we don't have one, and that's why there are some misunderstandings. And the question is quite simple, without judgment. I am absolutely convinced that the idea must be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u145	Complete your opinion, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u146	There are some details that can be worked out in preparation for second reading. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will vote for the document in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I recall once again the Committee's conclusion that the bill should be adopted as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also considers it possible and appropriate to recommend the adoption of a bill as a basis. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Mediation Act. [[Registration number 8137]] Please vote. [[12:13:05]] For 104 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, announcing the draft Law amending article 96 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the requirements under which a court order may be issued]] [[Registration number 8156]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Arsenij Petrovich Yacenuk. The Coroner is the head of the Justice Committee's subcommittee, Julia Volodymyrovn Ljovckin. Short cut? Please, I will put this motion to the vote. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:13:58]] For 193 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! These pictures of a retired woman who was approached by the Ukrainian State Executive Service and removed an old electronic TV from her apartment, an old washing machine, an old sewing machine, and a cat that was blind to one eye, flew all over the country. This was due to the fact that this woman owed 3,000 dollars to residential companies. That's because she gets 1,034 bracelets of pensions and her disabled son gets 750 dollars of grant from the State Disability Budget. What does this have to do with anything? This is due to the existence of a rule in article 96 of the Civil Procedure Code, which allows any residential enterprise without trial, without consideration to write a court order, to come to the apartment and get everything out of the apartment without getting any explanation in court. Unlike when you want to collect from any residential-communal enterprise the cost of having cold, hot water out of batteries, the trailer area is not patched up, it's never going to give you a chance to do that. We have to go to court and wait tens of days for them to at least accept the application. I propose to remove from article 96 the right of any housing-communal enterprise to receive a court order and to withdraw property from Ukrainians without a court procedure for having housing-communal services accounted for by those or other enterprises without a basis. This will provide an opportunity to protect Ukrainian citizens from being deprived of their homes and property. Thank you for your attention, please uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u149	Yes, Julia Volodymyrly Ljovczyn, please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u150	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice discussed at its meeting on 15 June this year the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 96 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code on the requirements under which a court order may be issued by the national deputy Yatsenuk. The project proposes to amend article 96 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides grounds for the issuance of a court order by excluding from the article a provision under which a court order may be issued in the event of a claim for payment of debts for housing, telecommunications, television, television and radio broadcasting, taking into account the inflation index of up to three per cent of the annual amounts of debt incurred by the claimant. We were so emotionally told about this by the author of the bill. The proposed changes can lead to a deeper problem of non-payments, and that is what we need to understand with you. However, after examining the proposed amendments to the draft law, the committee notes that the requirements of service providers to collect debts for services are examined by the courts in order to conduct them without notice and by the call of the parties. While the demands of citizens are being considered in the course of legal proceedings, the committee considers that the violation of the human right to a fair and public hearing by an independent court, the principles of justice, namely the publicity, openness, equality and competition of the parties in the trial. The Chief Court-Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Justice, believes that the draft law can be adopted as a basis. The Justice Committee feels the same way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. The subject is important, and we had to make an informed decision. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Then there's Olena Shustik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u152	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We will support this bill on the removal to article 76 of the Civil Enforcement Code of Ukraine of the grounds for issuing a court order, such as the requirement to collect debts for housing services, telecommunications services and so on. And what's infuriating and cynical is when some people think that this is going to be a reason to create more debt with the citizens when we're cheating in this room with a slight handshake of 24 billion of those owners of the heating companies, and we think that it's normal. I think this bill is important, and it needs to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u153	Yes, Olena Shustik, the BUT faction is Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u154	Helen Schuchtyik, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Faction "BUT" – "Fatherland" will undoubtedly support the bill. Since now cases of debt collection for housing services, telecommunications, television and radio services are being dealt with in orderly conduct, i.e. without court hearings, without the call of the debtor and without explanation. A person cannot effectively defend his interests in court, and often a court order is put in place before execution, and a person does not know his or her existence. So the formula is very simple: a loan-free court, a person without a place to live. This is the implementation of the Ukrainian President's programme from the People's Party of Ukraine. You can add a list of people. They're members of the Party of the Regions. If the bill is adopted, such cases will be dealt with under the general court rules and the debtor may prove his innocence and defend himself. So first of all, I'm talking to the representatives of the Party of Regions: support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u155	Yes, Peter Cibenko and Carmazin in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u156	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We were just talking about the institution of mediation. But, in fact, if you look at the current situation of this bill that we have, it already exists. So actually, what we're talking about right now is a non-convictional review, a judgmental decision of a person because of an order, this deprivation of his property, and so on, and so forth. We still need to get the man back to the sitting room, have the court listen to the man and his arguments, and so on and so forth. And then the faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote in favour of this bill, in order to protect Ukrainian citizens in any way, because their property status, many of them today, is such that a person is not truly able for objective reasons to count for public services and this situation must be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u157	Thank you, Yuri Carmazin, please have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I asked for my word because I saw that there was a strike in the governing coalition for this law. I beg you, what is happening to us? And I want to quote you in a letter from the Ministry of Justice: "I must take into account that the requirements of the organization that provides the above services are dealt with by the courts without a court hearing and a debtor's call, which does not guarantee equality of rights of the parties in the trial." [[And your minister, signed by your minister.]] Arseny Petrovich, you did the right thing. And if someone's looking at this question of what the pear of Yatzenuk is there, it's got nothing to do with the piar. This only has to do with the restoration of the Constitution. Because of that, I'm very sorry, but I want to remind the Ukrainian people today that there were supposed to be more than 20 ministers here, and there were only three ministers today, that's how they kept it. But the Justice Department did.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u159	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u160	I'm done. I beg you to accept this law. Moreover, it should be accepted immediately in the first, second, reading. Because it's only proposed to delete paragraph 3. I mean, there's nothing more to add. Whether or not to delete. If we remove it, then the overall conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u161	Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. As for Jury Karmazin's proposals, let's see what kind of support for the foundation, and then we'll take it as a whole so that we don't burn the bill. Dear colleagues, there really is a problem. So I would like to be very careful about making a decision. A motion for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending article 96 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the requirements under which a court order may be issued]] [[Registration number 8156]] Please vote. [[12:24:47]] For 114 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 1, "BUT - Fatherland" – 45, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 22, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 17, "The People's Party – 1, "non-factional" – 3. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. [[Registration number 8156]] Please vote. [[12:25:23]] For 116 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have two draft laws under the authority of the Royal Natalia. She's on the phone. What, what? Well, you insist on looking, I'll put it to a vote. Well, come on. I, my dear fellows. I asked on the phone to postpone the consideration of the two bills. I, my fellow Members, ask you, please, support me, I will put to the vote a motion to postpone the consideration of draft Law 9058. It's about transferring the bill. And then there's 9063. [[12:26:33]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Please, the committee suggests that, honourable colleagues, accept this bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to reject the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons, I remind you once again. [[on the cancellation of payment for the provision of information from the Single State Register]] [[Registration number 9058]] Please sign up for your position on this bill. Please: 2 for, 2 for against. Vladimir Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u162	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the reform group for the future, will support this bill in advance, coming out of the next one. Today, for receiving or receiving help from the Single State Register, payment is paid at the level of one untaxed minimum income of citizens. The project foresees that the transfer fee to the Bureau of Credit History of the database from the Single State Register is aimed at financing the costs associated with its maintenance. As a result, we would like to support this bill in the first reading, but there are observations. To date, the funds received for issuing a statement from the Single State Register are aimed at financing the costs associated with its management, i.e. not with the national budget of Ukraine. The project therefore proposes changes that have no impact on the state budget. As a result, we supported this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u163	National MP Greenkowski. Don't insist. Vladimir Moisik, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u164	Moses, party "For Ukraine!".. Please give me the word of Xenia Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u165	Xenia Leapina, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u166	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. Our faction supports this bill because this is really a matter that needs to be resolved as soon as possible. Today, there is a mere profit to produce a variety of documents from the State Register. We've all cancelled the state registration certificate together, and we thought we'd done a good thing because we took out the entrepreneurs of surplus paper. As a result, we did. Wanted as good as ever, it worked out. As a result, the register began to make a lot of money to produce instead of a copy, a copy of a certificate, and a variety of documents and statements from the State Register, which actually cost a lot of money, because each appendix, each of the pages of the appendix, costs separately. Besides, I want you to consider that these costs are actually not going to the state budget. As he kept the register, so he kept it. And this company, I think, almost doesn't pay taxes on the budget, so it's not profitable. So the whole country works through someone's feeding papers. We don't even know who. So we have to stop this and actually stop it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office recommends that the bill be rejected. So let's do it. So let us then take it as a basis, and then in the process of further work we will find out the purpose of the final decision. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State registration of legal persons and natural persons in business with regard to the abolition of payment for the provision of information from the Single State Register. [[Registration number 9058]] Please vote. [[12:30:58]] For-61 The decision is not taken. So low support, so I'm announcing that the bill has been rejected. Dear National Deputies! Next draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to repeal the issuance of a copy of the licence. [[Registration number 9063]] The committee proposes to accept as a basis, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority rejects and proposes to reject the bill. In view of this, dear colleagues, please sign up for your comments. Two for, two against. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u168	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Kseniya Mikhailni Lapini. I told you I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u169	Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u170	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. I thank my distinguished colleagues for the faction that they have given their word. I want to pay attention, my friends, you're exchanging political channels here, and we're losing the essence that entrepreneurs need today. And it's not a question of who initiated this bill, it's a question of what we're doing. Well, let's think about it. Today, legal persons are given a copy of the license to each place of activity. Although the license is not a paper, it is not a place certificate, it is the subject’s right to engage. For each license in the license plate and subject, there is an appendix that lists the addresses of all places of activity. So information about the place of activity is stored. But a copy of the license is issued for money, again, and it is issued by full procedure as a licensee. And this is an unnecessary procedure today. President Janukovic, from what I've heard, actually said that unnecessary procedures should be removed. And I'm surprised that, in fact, all his dreams are shattered about the reality of the political room when his faction does not support his calls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u171	Stanislaw Long, please.? Who else insists? None. Dear colleagues, once again, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority recommends that the Supreme Council reject the bill. I am betting on the vote on the first proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[canceling the issue of copies of licences]] [[Registration number 9063]] Please vote. [[12:34:05]] For-47 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. So, honourable national MPs, we've completed our consideration of the issues defined in "Variable." Now we're going to be with you, dear fellows, speaking with painful questions and problems. We've got a year to do this. Do we have to take notes? I'd like you to set up a timer for the hour, and I'd like you to sign up for the national MPs. For an hour, we agreed with you, your honors, that we work without interruptions, and then we'll have an hour to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u172	Please. People's MP Mankowski, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Yuri Prokopchuk. Passing it on to John Popescu, please. Who else is telling you? Six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u173	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! First of all, I wanted to draw attention to the positive shift in Minosveti’s work in the area of education in the languages of national minorities. At the same time, he had to pay attention to an act of soft sabotage by some Minosveta representatives, despite the constructive position of the minister himself, as he spoke in his interview on September 15, this year. Moreover, this issue is under the control of representatives of the monitoring committee when they examine issues of national minorities. The point is that in Order No. 946, which was registered by Minosvita on August 26, 2011, according to number 1006/19744, the external independent evaluation of the educational achievements of persons who have shown a desire to enter the higher educational institutions of Ukraine in 2012 was repeatedly stolen, despite my parliamentary remarks on this subject, which unfortunately resulted in no external independent evaluation of knowledge in the relevant language, particularly in the Hungarian and Romanian languages. [[of August 9, 2011]] Therefore, I ask the Minister of Education to give instructions on correcting mistakes and warning the guilty. The second question I wanted to pay attention to. Dear colleagues, yesterday we adopted the State Economic and Social Development Programme 2012 and the main trends for 2013-2014. With satisfaction and gratitude to the Cabinet of Ministers, we note that most of the sites proposed by the representatives of the Cherniewec region have been approved, and this is 5 of the areas of health care in the city of Chernivci. These include the construction of schools — Magali and Lujans. This is also the second round of high school and the construction of a professional sanatorium in the village of Krasnoylsk. It's also a fund-raiser for the restoration of the Olga Kobilian Theatre. Sadly, though, not all the objects that Chernobyl’s district government insisted were taken into account, including some of those that I had previously pointed to from this rostrum. I therefore take this opportunity to refer to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy and to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Andrija Petrovich Klav, asking to support the concerns of the Montenegrin Regional Administration regarding the inclusion in the programme of additional objects of social and economic importance for the region and to support these proposals in the second reading of the programme. This is primarily about the construction of schools in the village of Jordanest of the Głobecko region: the total cost is 30 million 727 thousand and the necessary amount of funding in 2012 is 5 million dollars; In the village of Ternavka, the region of Hertziev, the amount needed to complete the construction on September 1, 2011, amounts to 8 million dollars. In 2012, children’s gardens are also needed: in the village of the State of the Deep Region, the amount needed for 2012 is 3 million 307,000 dollars and in the village The amount of funding required in 2012 is 7 million 873,000 dollars. In addition, it would be appropriate to include the addition of schools in the village of Moshanec in 2012 because the school was still under way. That is to say, its construction was started in 1991, and in the future it should be anticipated that there is a need for children’s kindergartens in the town of the Watchtower, in the village of Mahalata, in the village of Toporovka Novoselické district, and in the village of Hryatske Hertzievsky district, and in schools: in the village of Ridkovice Novoselów and in the new Romanian school in the village of Miracles of the Storosnecki region. Dear Chairman! Please consider my statement to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy and the Ministry of the Environment. Economic development and trade. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u174	I would like to invite Dmitri Schlemck, who is addressed by a colleague of the Yuri Prokopchuk faction. Please. He will be followed by a national deputy, Zdirko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u175	Dear compatriots, yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted two important bills to determine the life of our society in 2012, this is the State Economic and Social Development Programme and the State Budget. The introductory part of the program emphasizes that it is based on the key positions of the pre-election programme of President Janukovic of Ukraine. Yet, when you combine these election promises, the program, and the budget, it turns out that they are as far away from each other as the Earth from the Andromeda Nebula. Because I quote, "The purpose of the State Program is to increase the well-being and quality of life of the population by providing positive structural distortions in the economy." After a careful study of the program and the budget, it turns out that neither in 2012 nor in the perspective of both the first and the second. Remember, it's the basic social standards that have to determine the well-being of people and the factors that affect them. These are salaries, pensions, scholarships, benefits for the underprivileged, and prices for goods and services. We're taking President Yanukovic's pre-election promises and we're comparing them with the program and the budget. He promised a minimum wage of 1,500 dollars today — two years ago from January 1, 2010. By the end of 2012, it's only going to be 1098 dollars, that's 402 dollars less. The minimum pension will increase by an average of 75 dollars, or 9.8 percent, at the end of 2012 will be 842 dollars, and was promised 1,320 dollars in 2010. What is left of this promotion for a simple person? But virtually nothing, because inflation is projected at 7.9 percent in 2012, and real, as foreign and domestic experts already predict, is going to be much higher. And they hide it behind the Handheld, because according to the authors in their program, in 2010, inflation was kept to a lower level than ten percent. While economists clearly identified it as real, it was 42 percent. It is not surprising, therefore, that the proportion of the poor in Ukraine will increase from 24.1 per cent in 2010 to 26.2 per cent in 2012 and that the proportion in Ukraine will increase to 34 per cent. Ironically, it is planned that Ukraine does not yet remember the poverty of ordinary Ukrainians -- this is the shearing of the social policy of today's government and the fulfillment of President Yanukovic's promises to fight poverty. It is the harsh criticism of such a policy of power, personally President Yanukovic, of bringing the truth to the Ukrainians that is the cause of the cave court over Yulia Timoshenko, and not of the premeditated criminal case that has become a disgrace to Ukraine in the world. The way out of this situation is the will of Yuli Timoshenko! So it would be better to be richer than to be poorer. The only problem is in power.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u176	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u177	represented by billionaires and millionaires, so they don't want to share. Therefore, in order to prevent these bills from becoming laws, press, citizens, in all ways of the national MPs of the majority in the Supreme Council, because they vote in favour of the conductor's hand. You'd better get ahead of yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u178	I'd like to invite Gennady Zadirko, the Reform Group for the Future. He'll be followed by Olena Bondarenko. And I would like to remind you that the speech of the national deputy John Popescu will be presented as an appropriate parliamentary address. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! In my speech, I would like to draw attention to the situation that has arisen around the National Television Council and the radio competition between the digital language licensing organisations on which Ukraine is expected to move to 2015 under the terms of the Geneva Conference. It is known that the competition was held from August 15 to 18, this year. 59 applications from 55 radio companies were submitted to the national speech competition, and 1055 applications from 182 radio companies were submitted to the regional and local languages. Indeed, the process of submitting applications for participation was in the framework of current legislation, and any television company that wanted to do so could participate in this competition. But the contest itself and its results have given rise to a series of surprises and questions in the media space of Ukraine. It was just after the contest results were announced that the contest came with insight and a moment of truth. And the results are. The national language of 55 television companies was granted the right of 26 television companies, regional and local languages, to 182 television broadcasters, to 111 TRKs. So, according to the competition, the license for the national number was 28 channels, 8 of them were obtained by the Inter Group. The Juber Channel won 10 areas of Ukraine and the city of Kiev, which it soon refused. Also, a group of winners are less known, more loyally said, no one knows television companies like Hockey, Bank TK, Golberry and even newborn television companies like Venture TV, EsculapTV, which the media market doesn't know at all. I would like to point out, dear colleagues, these television companies have never had experience and national language at all. Instead, television companies like "Era", "2+2", TV have been deprived of such rights, and it's interesting what the National Council's leadership was doing when voting and making decisions when it took away the right to broadcast in the world-renowned U.S. TRCs and passed them on to completely new players in the media market. Has article 25, paragraph 14, of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act been taken into account? There is a clear reference to broadcasting advantages. In addition, there are no children’s cultural projects among the 28 canals, but there are as many as four musical ones, even a baby in the near future that our children may forget as the license is not given. And in Western Ukraine, local television companies are actually being pushed out of the media space. These are cities such as Lviv, Raven, Ternopil, Chernivci. There the victory came to no one unknown, just registered to a television company. So this is about clearing the information space of Ukraine. The same thing happened in Crimea, the Black Sea.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u180	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u181	The NizzTV TV company, the city of Mikolayev. Therefore, we are convinced that the competition has taken place in violation of the rules and requirements of existing legislation, so its results can be considered invalid. Therefore, I consider it appropriate to create a temporary special commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine whether the National Council should be held on television issues and to broadcast legislation when preparing and conducting this shameful competition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u182	First of all, I'd like to invite you to Helen Bondarenko, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." It will be followed by Paul the Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u183	Olena Bondarenko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. "Blessed is the man who goes to the judgment of the wrong-doers, and there for the truth raises his voice." These immortal words of the great John Frank are especially relevant in today’s, present - day, delinquent authorities. The leader of the opposition, Julius Timoshenko, raises his courageous voice for the truth in the judgment of the wrongs, becoming an obedient instrument in the hands of the wrong and unrighteous authorities. In fact, Julia Timoshenko not only protects her personal dignity and civil rights, she protects us from the loss of our dignity, fear, and infidelity. "Don't be afraid, don't be broken, don't be silent, and you'll win!".. Julia Tymoshenko, and this is not only recognized by her "sympathetics", but has become a human symbol today. For Ukrainians, it is a symbol of the integrity and strength of the spirit, for the world, a symbol of the struggle for human rights in Ukraine. It was defended by the world community, leaders of the leading states, because they thus defend democracy, human rights, the rule of law in Ukraine. Because let us be honest, a country that does not meet these fundamental values is not needed for a democratic world. For whoever enters his house will sit at one table and eat from one bowl with a homeless thug. As respectable Ukrainians, we are offered meals, by the way, from the desks of the bandits. This is evidenced by pension laws, laws that have been taken away from Afghans, Chernobyl, and more than a dozen other categories of citizens. Today, the leader of the opposition, in a fair fight with the wrong, the inhuman and the inhumane authorities, is proving to us and this power is incompetent and fearsome, so it frightens you because it frightens you. Julius Timoshenko is now heard and supported by not only the 12 million Ukrainians who voted for him in the presidential election. From my native Luhansk, I receive numerous letters and calls to support Julia Timoshenko. And you know, just as I was taking the electorate to the tent town, I met some wonderful people: Alexander Mikhailovich Prokopenko and his wife, Irina Oxentovna, by the way, Alexander Mikhailovich, since 1999, think about trying to pay the hospital in connection with the industrial injury in the mine. So these people came to express their support for Julia Timoshenko. Do you know where they came from? They are from the hometown of Yanukovič, from the city of Yenakieva. And I'm convinced that not too soon, when we really do, we will seriously say thank you to the people of Donbas for the new Ukrainian President, for the new Ukrainian honest power that we will choose as the only Ukrainian community. We're here, we're all here, we're a group. Let's get together! The goal is the foundation of future decision - making events.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u184	I'd like to invite Paul Silent, the Reform Group for the Future. It will be followed by Eugene Volintz, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u185	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow MPs! There's recently been such information that you know us Russian peace is a widespread system of Russian power that invests in Ukraine in huge amounts of money in various cultural projects. Several centres of the "Russian world" have already opened up – in Herson, in Kharkiv, and opening the residence of the "Russian world" in Kharkiv, the Russian General General of the World of the Philippines stressed that in their plans to make Kharkushina happy during the year with five more such offices – $46 million has been allocated for such projects. Why do I say that? And because the Ukrainian World Coordinating Council, which has functioned for more than a decade in Ukraine, this year does not provide a single piece of the budget for what Russia needs, for example, to influence our situation in our country, spends a huge amount of money. And that's why I'm going to make it clear that in a globalized world, new-powered Ukraine is facing the task of preserving its national cultural identity, both in Ukraine's territory and in countries where Ukrainians live in the first, second, third and sometimes in the fourth generations and in their indigenous lands, which are now part of neighbouring countries, such as Cuba, the Republic of Russia. The primary responsibility for preserving the Ukrainian national and cultural identity of the world's Ukraine, including the mainland, lies with the Ukrainian State. I'm saying once again that there's no money in the budget to create, or a certain organ, and this body has to be created, so in matters of foreign Ukraine, for example, Russians, they're not just doing it for Russians and not just Russians, they're doing it for compatriots. Several centers: "Russia World", "Sotlander", "The Union of Russian Communities". We need to create such a committee, we need a government structure to carry out this policy. This should be the central government body financed by the state budget, and it must pursue a state policy on foreign Ukrainians. His work should take place in separate administrations and directions. Ukrainians of Eastern Europe, Central Asia, Ukrainians of Western Europe and Ukrainians of Canada and the United States, Ukrainians of Latin America, Ukrainians of Australia and Asian countries. And the committee has to be made up of highly qualified personnel who will do the tasks clearly, they're all written down, they're all recommended to the government and they're sent to the President and that's why, Mikola Volodymyrovich, I'm asking you to make my statement as a deputy's request for changes to the budget next year to fund such a necessary state structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u186	I'd like to invite Eugene Volintz, a faction of Communists. He will be followed by Vladimir Litvinov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u187	Respectable voters, respected colleagues. The Ukrainian Law on the Reformation of the Health System in Winnitsk, Dnepropetrovsk, Donetsk and the City of Kiev entered into force, during which many criticized it. The Communists did not support the law because of its lack of constructiveness and apathy. The Ministry of Health seems eager to experiment: if, for example, failure can be attributed to regions. But the interest of the regions will also be understood, the experiment will need to be given preferences, particularly budget ones, and this in itself is a good argument. The main problem is where to take money to implement this reform. Today, even the minimum health needs of the Donetsk region alone are underfunded by 39 million rubles. In turn, the Governor of the District has declared a sharp shortage of hundreds of millions of bracelets for new ambulances. True, we do not know on what calculations this was all said. Commissioners of the district council in Donetsk have repeatedly asked for a response from the branch offices, how much and what funds are needed for the pilot project. I do not wish to criticize this reform, but to draw your attention to one fact. We have already encountered funding at the primary level. Even if there is money for ambulances today, the question is, How long will they serve? Roads in disaster areas. However, this is about improving the quality of medical care, particularly for rural people. And instead of the roads, there are gutters and pits. So the ambulance can't get to the patient in 20 minutes, which is stipulated in the law. So the patient will not receive timely and qualified assistance. So for whom and why did we start this experiment? Even if 100 to 200 new vehicles are introduced on the rural roads of the Donetsk region, yes, probably not only the Donetsk region, it will be another six months before hundreds of millions of bracelets have to be spent on ambulances or repairs. Plus, Deputy Prime Minister of Infrastructure Boris Kolesnikov states that 254 ambulances must be purchased for four cities hosting Euro-2012. This is estimated at 28 million euros. In fact, it is a manual dispersion of the budget, especially for the purchase of expensive equipment with all the rolling baits. This, by the way, is confirmed by the fact that the final provisions of the bill exclude the provision of health services to the population in pilot regions from the control of tender legislation. Mr. Officials, enough to come up with plans to empty the budget again. It's time to think about how to fill it. This reform of the medical sector will not do anything. Communists have approached the people of a medical institution, and today everything is being done the other way around. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u188	I invite Vladimir Litvinov, faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Victor Taran-Tarren.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u189	Vladimir Litvinov, Party of Regions. Dear Nikolai Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! In my district, there is a town of Dobropolé, located in the Donetsk region of Dobropol, in the north-western part of the Krasnoarmei Geological and Industrial Region, which has significant reserves of coal in the depths of 100 to 1600 metres, and which are extended in large areas, from the town of Krasnoarmeyska to the village of Alexandrovka and further to the region of Kharkiv and Dnepropetrov. Currently, seven mines in the city have opened up about 500 million tons of coal and coal reserves, “G” and “DH”, which are highly liquid under Donbass. In the city structure, the coal industry is 90 per cent and is urban. Almost all the mines are post-war. During the years of operation, urban coal mining funds have been used for an average of 65 to 70 per cent. Of the 10,000 units of basic stationary equipment, a quarter have fully exhausted their regulatory resource of exploitation. The housing and social spheres built and put into service in the 1950s and 1960s are in a similar state. The solid energy project is 66 per cent of the total area, which to date is economically wasteful, the technical operation is outdated and environmentally unsafe. The development of the city in the 1960s and 1970s was supported by liquefied gas, 10 and a half per cent, and 9.8 per cent by electric plates in the 1980s. In the years that followed, there was little construction in the city. The variety of types of energy supplies complicates the transfer of housing, utilities and social services to a common type of equipment that is possible in our region – electrical plates. As we know from the experts, it's extremely expensive. Even for today, the electricity generated by the downturn will be needed in the further development of the city's coal industry. In view of the real time for the updating of the core funds, particularly the active part thereof, it is necessary to infuse capital investments that the State does not have. Investors in the Dobropol GP are asking about the transfer from their social balance to the city's balance sheet. But the technical condition prevents him from doing so. At present, the South Proschacht Institute has implemented a project of a high-pressure pipeline, Krasnoarmeysk-Dobropole, whose estimated value, together with a gas distribution station, is 32 million. This project also provides for the gasification of the settlements of the Volunteer region.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u190	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u191	which, like the town of Dobropolje, is the only region of regional jurisdiction without centralized gas supply. Before considering the 2012 budget, please consider including the gasification of the city of Dobropola in the gasification facilities. I request that you consider the request to the Minister of Finance, Yarošenko, and to the Minister of Energy and Coal, Boyko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u192	I would like you to make the appropriate parliamentary inquiries announced by Deputy Litvinov. I'd like to invite the People's Deputy Victor Taran-Terreen, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Vladimir Moses. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u193	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. Yesterday, students from Kyiv universities and not only from Kyiv universities protested against the politics of tobacco education. In Kiev, students were thrown into busses, and the Berkuts beat them there. And we're talking about everything in the Supreme Council today, but we're not talking about how our children are being tortured. There were our children. Our children will go out on the street tomorrow to protest this policy, against Tobacco, against the Ukrainian cataclysms of Ukrainian education. And that's why the Yulia Timoshenko Block supports the students. "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block" is a solidarity figure, expressed yesterday by a student of the Kyiv-Magilian Academy of Darin Stepanenko, who slapped the Minister of Education for his politics for destroying Ukrainian education. She called for strikes. I've got a red cell right now, texting students, what's going to be the response of the Supreme Council. We talk about everything, but we don't talk about our children. And that's why Yulia Timoshenko's Block definitely supports young people, strongly supports students, and we strongly support this student who has slapped this minister of education. In the era of occupation in which Ukraine today is located, this is an act. The only thing that this girl might have been wrong about is that there should be a bouquet not of roses, but of some kind of strong pitiful crumb when she was already beating that poor minister in his face. But there's something else I'm worried about. That was the answer to all this power from the student, but I'm a little bit alerted by the other, what the Smoker's reaction was. And the Tobacco Reaction was not the kind of reaction a normal person would have to have. He'd have to say, "Why? What's the problem?" What is he talking about? He speaks of another which was a lovely girl as she smiled magically. If you'll excuse me, there's talk of this in the village, you know, the girl will be seen, the saliva is flowing. When the minister of education, instead of focusing on problems, starts talking about problems, he starts talking about which girl was a charming, underage student, I'm sorry, I don't want to use the term "pedophilia," but it's something in this area. And so as long as this power remains, as long as we have this education, as long as the tobacco industry is in charge of our education, Ukraine will not have its future, because education is destroyed today. Regardless of party membership, poor children cannot learn. For example, to study a year of study in Ukrainian philosophy, you have to pay 10,000. On something more prestigious, in today’s conditions, to pay even more for specialties. They are today trying to raise Ukraine to Russia, education, and the principles of life. I want to say one thing, it won't work. Ukraine is not Russia, and it will never be Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u194	I invite Vladimir Moysik, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". He will be followed by Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u195	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues, national MPs! On September 6th of this year, the faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" excluded twelve colleagues, national deputies, from its ranks, namely those who became members of today's coalition and those who, together with the coalition, voted in favour of the Kharkiv Agreements for the continuation of the Russian fleet in our territory. Although he was the only one against this decision, the head of the Mikola Martinenko faction signed the protocol the following day and handed it over to the presiding officer, as provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. At the same time, the material and the protocols were devoted to the Committee on Rules and MPs. Last time I spoke, I stressed and showed a position on the committee, and there is no relationship between this committee and the faction, exit and exclusion. And the committee confirmed that, dear colleagues. Last week there was a committee, but he didn't discuss the issue, and before that he sent a message to the Chief of the Supreme Council and to the faction's head that it was your questions inside and out. So again, I'm thinking that the authorities are interfering with the opposition faction. Dear colleagues, I stress that the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is opposition. Along with the fact that you see a vote on pension reform, judicial reform, the abolition of 13 million taxpayers' benefits, under an anti-national budget, there are 12 deputies from Our Ukraine. I emphasize to the voters once again, I did not in vain raise this sort of internal question of our faction's life to just this level, because it's about those who betrayed the electorate and went after the election to another faction and to the vast majority. And I want to warn the authorities again and let you know, my fellow national MPs, if this is not done, that we will leave the faction alone, leave the faction to those who betrayed the electorate and create a new parliamentary patriotic union. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u196	I invite Yuri Carmazin, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". It will be followed by Vasile Derevljany, a faction of "BUT is the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u197	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! I have a statement about the crime and the reports on it I want to make for Victor Pavlovich Pshonka, Attorney General of Ukraine. On September 5, 2011, at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Prime Minister Azarov, Protocol No. 63, ordered the Pension Fund of Ukraine to stop the execution of the judgments of the courts and to retire the participants in the liquidation of the Chernobyl disaster under Cabinet Order 745. [[of July 6, 2011]] I am approached by Chernobyl organizations and is viewed as a violation of the Constitution, of the constitutional rights of citizens and of the position of the guarantor of the President's Constitution. They write directly in their letters, "It's obvious that you don't need a guarantor, the Supreme Council, but you only need Mr. Azarov." They say that such actions by Azarov are moving toward disobedience and mass upheaval. I would also like to refer to a few points that are disrupting the situation in society and talking about the corruption of the authorities that need to be investigated. This announcement was sent to me by over a hundred students, who said, "By the 19th number, we need to continue the tickets to the hostel's subsistence allowance for medical insurance." And here's the deal from the Ukrainian Reserve Company. This is what the students are calling me, and I'm demonstrating right now that you see these signatures of these students at our aviation university. Who does this company Ukrainian Reserve belong to? Why make these students pay 150 bucks when they don't have money? Why are they threatened to be evicted? It's a question again, Victor Pavlovich Pshonka, to you. Finally, yesterday in Odessa, there was a search of the city’s deputy head, other officials suspected of corruption crimes. And I'm talking to Odessy, and I'm saying, Your Honor, your mayor and the mayor are cutting leases that are concluded by 2020 for 25 years with the Veteran Food Network. These dining rooms, founded by Viktor Borisovich Stankevich, have already fed a total of about 5 million people, if that were the case. They help people to survive. And I'm asking you to stop the clerical of the mayor's officials. I'm calling from this high rostrum to give them their hands and to continue the work of charitable organizations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u198	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I'd like to invite Vassil Wooden, the "Fatherland" faction. He will be followed by Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u199	Vasile Derevljany, Faction "BUT" is "The Fatherland." Dear Ukrainians! From this rostrum, I want to bring to your attention a number of outstanding problems that have arisen in the field of the Ternopil region by the current authorities and the head of the ODA of the Hoptian. First. In the Supreme Council, members of the majority of the 9105 have registered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Cultural Heritage Monuments, which is not privatized, to exclude Pocaivska Lavra from the list of buildings. Under this law it is proposed that the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate be transferred to the Ukrainian shrine, Pochayivska Lavra. Undoubtedly, his acceptance will have destabilizing and unpredictable effects on the territory of the region and Galicina as a whole. I would like to remind the current President, the leaders of the power structures, the head of ODA Hoptian, who supports the privatization of Pochai's Lavra, that in the area of 82.9 per cent is the religious denominations of the Ukrainian traditional churches and only 10 per cent is the religion of the Moscow Patriarchate. And I call for urgent measures to prevent the privatization of the Ukrainian sanctuary, the Pochai Lavra. The other one. The scandal over the transfer of 190 acres [190 ha] of land to which the head of the ODA Hoptyans lived as the heads of the Laniewsky and Assembly Administrations began to pass on agricultural land to their relatives. Third. As a national deputy, I appealed to the Department of Safety and Prosecutor’s Office in connection with the measures taken to halt the coup d’état, which was launched by the heads of Terebovljansk, Borsztewski, Zaleščiceké RDA under the patronage of the Hoptjan in a congregation of farm managers with a corresponding salary of 1 hectare [1 ha] of land. Today I know these accounts. These accounts are in Raiffeisen Bank, and these are listed as, for example, the Terebovlian District Council, agricultural enterprises. Next. In this room, a number of my requests and appeals to the leadership of the state for the protection of 3,000 spiders who were cheated by the building company Budinvest under the leadership of Szczepanowski. In my answers, I was assured that they would help them, but to this day all have been removed from the aid of these rations. These remarks, please, are considered as a parliamentary appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Attorney General. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u200	Please form a request from the People's Deputy to the appropriate officials. I'd like to invite Vladimir Leschenko, a faction of Communists. It will be followed by Julia Kovalevska, a faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u201	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro During September, all cities and other settlements in Montenegro celebrate the 68th anniversary of liberation from German-Fashistic invaders. The Montenegrin region in the distant 1943 ’ s was liberated by the troops of the Central Front, commanded by the glorified general, then the army general, Communist Constantine Costinovich Rokosovski. Among the Montenegrin liberators were representatives of all the nationalities of the Soviet Union. This eloquently confirms a list of the special compositions of the 181st archery division that liberated the district center. In total, there were 6,000 669 fighters and commanders, including Russians -- 4,000 89, Uzbeks -- a thousand 49, Ukrainians -- 552, Kazakhs -- 215, Tatars -- 136, and other nationalities. For courage and courage in fighting the liberation of the Chernigian region, 879 fighters and commanders of the Red Army were assigned the high title Hero of the Soviet Union. Regrettably, many of the soldiers of the liberators died in a fierce battle against the enemy and remained on our earth forever, the memory of the conqueror’s heroes is sacred. The Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine warmly welcomes the people of Montenegro with their 68th anniversary of liberation from German-Fashistic invaders. We wish all mankind a peaceful heaven and a happy life on earth. The liberation soldiers of Montenegro, guerrillas and underworld have made a significant contribution to the overall victory of the Soviet people over Hitler's Germany. However, the Great Victory would not have been possible if the Soviet people, under the leadership of the Lenin Communist Party, had not created in advance a powerful economic and defence potential of the labor-rural state, if it had fought not for national ownership and socialism, but for example for the wealth of capitalists and dignitaries, how little it was in neighbouring countries. So another significant event in our area was the inauguration in Chernigov on September 20, the monument to Vladimir Ilchi Lenin after the capital repair. The city’s inhabitants paid tribute to the great man of the planet Earth, who, on the basis of Marxism, developed the theory of the proletarian revolution and the construction of the laborist peasant state and put it into practice. As a result, the Soviet people conquered Hitler’s Fascism and took away the world from the brown plague. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u202	I invite Julia Kovalevsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. It will be followed by Andrew Pavlovsky of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, distinguished TV and radio audiences, yesterday the Cabinet of Ministers was presented in the Supreme Council of the State Budget Act of Ukraine 2012." The State's most important financial instrument is different from the 2011 budget, since it is focused, above all, on the maximum protection of our citizens from negative external influence and is based on the new Tax Code. However, it guarantees the progressive improvement of the welfare of our citizens, the provision of income, the preservation of a stable national currency rate and the promotion of the further growth of the state's economy. I would like to point out that for the first time in recent years, unlike previous governments, the current government has submitted the State budget for the consideration of the Supreme Council not only in a timely manner, but also in a complex project of the State Programme for Social and Economic Development of the country, which will enable comprehensive decisions to be made, to ensure a balanced and balanced development of the economy without intersectoral imbalances. Dear colleagues, President Yanukovic's program "Ukraine for the People" has declared concern for every person, a gradual improvement in life. So in 2012, basic social standards and other state social security guarantees will not only be preserved, but also increased, all social spending next year will be increased by 10 to 15 percent, all benefits and benefits saved, and some of our colleagues don't need to lie, and they don't need to be driven by people's passions. During 2012, the minimum wage is projected to increase by 21 percent and the minimum wage to 1098 dollars per month. There is a corresponding increase in social indicators such as retirement, childbearing assistance, and so forth. With a view to improving the demographic situation in the country, government payments are increasing at the birth of a child. Thus, when the first child is born, material aid is offered to raise from $26,000 to $28,000, for the birth of the second child from $52,000 to $57,000, 600, and for the third and every subsequent one from 104 thousand to 115 thousand,300 during 2012. It is also planned to increase social benefits to help families with children, low-income families, disabled children, disabled children and temporary state assistance to children. Subsidies from the national budget are planned to increase local budgets by 3.8 billion dollars, up to 30 billion dollars. Respectable compatriots!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u204	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u205	I call on all parliamentarians, honourable colleagues, now, more than ever, to reject the political situation in the budgetary process and to mobilize efforts to make all their amendments, constructive proposals and to adopt a streamlined, balanced new budget. In the new year, Ukraine must enter with the main financial document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u206	I would like to invite Andrew Pavlovsky. He will be followed by Vladimir Yavorowski, a faction of "BUT – "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u207	Andrew Pavlovski, "The House of Julius Timoshenko is the Fatherland". Previous reports from the Party of Regions have repeatedly called for opposition to a constructive dialogue. How will we conduct it when opposition leaders are imprisoned in prison? Can we set up a round table for discussions at the Lukyanian Sizo? Friends! Looking at the draft budget, it became clear why Mr. Azarov is so fond of the word "crovosis," because this budget is a powerful confirmation that the authorities are "crooking" and Janukovic continues to drink the blood of the Ukrainian people. Notice that the government spends 16.6 billion dollars in the next year to maintain the entire bureaucratic apparatus of the state, while only 13.9 billion dollars are spent on the social protection of black people, Afghans, veterans and children of war, people with disabilities who are not socially protected. These figures indicate that more money is spent on maintaining a loved one than on all social programs combined. At the same time, the oligarchs of the "crovosis" in the form of reforms introduce a pension genocide and try to eliminate social assistance and benefits for 16 categories of citizens. Citizens, the Law on Budgets does not provide money for your benefits. That's why the authorities came to their senses after the Chernobyl and Afghan protests, because that's a problem for them. At the same time, they are increasing the funding of penal, police structures, perhaps using rubber rods and gas to explain to people how wonderful and happy life has become next year. At the same time, I would like to pay attention to the lie of power. The person who understands arithmetic will open up the budget and see that the minimum pension from the beginning of the year to December next year increases by only 61 bracelets and wages by 62. And compare this to the increase in food, the tariffs for utilities. People don't buy jewelry, they buy bread, and they miss it. And in order to break the wave of national indignation that is rising, Yanukovich’s authorities have abandoned the opposition leaders Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko in advance so that they cannot organize the national process and protect the people. Citizens! It's time to get off your knees, protect the interests of yourself, your families, the future of your children! Afghans and Chernobyl have shown us how to do this. Ask for justice, demand the will of the political prisoners!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u208	I invite Vladimir Yavorowski to the floor. He will be followed by Antonin Bolour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u209	Dear voters, I address you because our hall is almost empty. From this rostrum came all sorts of things, all sorts of decompositions and justices, and very often they were thought up, and very often they were lying. I want to present in my speech today very specific, true, supported by all the documents, the facts of colossal corruption that exists today in the highest echelons of Ukrainian power. We keep talking about the Black Sea Fleet, about Russia renting huge territories. Janukovic has already run around and signed a 25 - year extension in shrubs with Russia. What's behind this? Let me remind you, in 1997, Ukraine is signing this Agreement with Russia. Before that, it was found that commercial structures, commercial structures, I emphasize, not state structures, owed Russia $3 billion with tails of dollars. Apparently Kuchma has been transferred to our national government debt. Since then, once again, since 1997, in fact, the Ukrainian budget has not been paid a penny for the charter of the Black Sea fleet -- it just automatically drops 97 million a year with a small tail there. So I want to remind you that there was no transmission inventory, there was no act of transmission. And today no one knows what territory under the Black Sea fleet, and I'm not saying that the Ukrainian courts are afraid, afraid, corrupt, they've made decisions on lighthouses in favor of Ukraine to get them back because they're being captured by Russian Marines, and nothing is being done today. I wasn't released on the Ukrainian lighthouse last year -- they just wouldn't let me in. Let's move on. According to professionals, Russia is supposed to pay us $234 billion a year each year. How much do we pay? Payable is 97. But the Treaty makes it very clear that these payments should be made by 2007. Today is 2011. So since 2007, we've been blaming Russia for nothing. I have a request to the prosecutor, a request to the head of the government, please tell me why there's no line of revenue in the budget that should go from the Russian side, you've hidden it somewhere. If it's hidden, it's a mess, and I'm sure it's been in my pockets for years. I really want us to figure this out and talk about it, then you find the money and for the pensioners, you find the money and for the Afghans, you don't want to just look for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u210	I'd like to invite you to Antonina Boloura, the "BOUT" faction, "Fatherland." It will be followed by Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u211	Antonina Boloura, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland. Dear Ukrainians, discussions began in Ukraine, the entire 2012 budget. Yesterday a presentation was made in the Supreme Council of the Budget itself briefly and on the basis of a budget. The law itself says that the budget is based on the position of the program, please listen to how beautiful it sounds at all: "A prosperous society, a competitive economy, an effective state." And the program itself is beautiful, but when you look at the program itself and the budget, it's completely different things. And the budget, that's the financial accompanying of this beautiful program. Yes, indeed, there is an increase in macro indicators, but you have to give the answer in general, clearly and honestly, that this is a huge credit in this government of Yulia Timoshenko. It was she who was dealing with the world crisis, and it was the government of Yulia Timoshenko that laid the foundation for the economic strategy. We supported metallurgy, the chemical industry, the agricultural sector, and all the others and the result we see is not so great, but it is. As for "rich society," what does that mean? That salary increase we just heard about yesterday? This is an increase, it is eaten by an increase, a constant increase in tariffs, prices, services, and everything else. Maybe that means these huge sums that go to maintain a huge administrative machine. I'm not going to load numbers right now, but there's a tremendous increase, all the more that we've heard about administrative reform. Perhaps it is not a shortcut, but it is a significant increase. So what I'm saying is that it's just immoral in the background, unlike all the benefits we're talking about today and yesterday. And it's not just those that are invalidated by Decree 9127, but many others. Wild things like the canceled program for material aid to disabled people, lack of funding in the program for prosthetic production and service of disabled people. In 2011, there were 5 million predicted, and now there's nothing at all. In a prosperous society, all people should be rich. All people must be rich. Maybe it's a competitive economy? So if you take the export and import balance, I think it can just characterize this competitive economy, it's breaking up more and more.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u212	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u213	It's no use. I'm asking for one more minute because I want to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u214	I'm sorry. Mrs. Antonino, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u215	You can count everything that's not done for people. And today, literally, the Opikun Council has given us such information that we have an oncological increase of 100,000 people each year. They're 2,000 children. So today, they're completely out of medicine this year. Yes, what concern do we have for people? I'm asking you very much, these are my data to refer to the Ministry of Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u216	I'd like to invite Peter Cybenk, a faction of Communists. Sergey Hrapov will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u217	Faction of the Ukrainian Compartium, President of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization, Petr Cibenko. Respectable voters, respected veterans, ahead of Veterans Day, which will be celebrated on 1 October, thanks to veterans for what they have done for the country, for the people, for Ukraine, I want to raise one problem for the extremely concerned voters of ours and veterans, including what has been eloquently demonstrated by the events of the coming week. This is what the State and its structure have recently done, and the authorities in general have given a great deal of attention to the fulfilment of Ukraine's obligations to the European Union and its structures. Of course, there is nothing wrong with that if it were not for one spicy circumstance. Unfortunately, this is not the same as the State and all its institutions have shown the same perseverance and determination in fulfilling their obligations to their own people and voters. This raises confusion among the citizens. They ask, what, the authorities no longer have obligations to their own people? Don't we need a state anymore? The fairness and relevance of these issues have also been confirmed by the closing week. The ultimate principle of fulfilling its obligations to its own people, including the least protected categories of citizens, clearly demonstrated the draft State budget for Ukraine for 2012, which the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered yesterday. Unfortunately, it has become the norm to cut and eliminate the benefits of veterans of war and labour, Chernobyl, internationalist soldiers, children of war, victims of Nazi persecution through the State budget of Ukraine. Once again, I emphasize that all these benefits are essentially those commitments that the State has voluntarily undertaken, I stress, by adopting the relevant law. And when the same State fails to fulfil its obligations, it causes at least misunderstanding and indignation. But the State did not have enough. It decided to repeal or relent these laws and passed a bill entitled “On the guarantees of the State for the enforcement of court decisions”, which, despite an attractive title, in fact not only destroys the entire system of social protection, but also in fact deprives citizens of the right to judicial protection guaranteed by the Constitution. And those who came under the walls of Parliament to protect their legitimate rights put a label on almost the terrorists. Yes, some of them gave in to emotion and had a bit of a heated discussion. But the main culprit is the State itself, and the part of the MP Corps that tried what is called the darkening of the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u218	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u219	To essentially destroy the system of protection of the most disadvantaged citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u220	I'd like to invite Sergey Chrapov, the faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, one of the most pressing problems in Ukraine is the right to privatize hostels. It is well known that Parliament has recently adopted Law 8678 as a whole, which improves the procedure for the exercise of housing rights in hostels. In my native Dnepropetrovsk, more than 100 dormitories are covered by this law. While the city has not yet approved urban programmes for the transfer of accommodations to the territorial community of the city for further privatization. In Dnepropetrovsk, more than 70,000 people live in dormitories, and to date only units have been granted this right. There was virtually no State registration of property rights for the territorial community of the city. For example, only 4 per cent of dormitories were registered by the State in all communal property hostels. I am regularly approached by the residents of these hostels, who are forced to endure reprisals by the balance of the holders. Inspired by the removal of power, owners introduce their homes into order, thus conspiring to live in inhuman conditions. Many dormitories lack gas, heat, and water. Residents, however, are forced to properly pay excessive utilities, threatening eviction. The Communists have been in control of this problem for seven years. We intend to take steps to realize the right of residents to privatize their rooms. We will do our utmost to ensure that the law that has been passed is clearly enforced by the local authorities so that people will not be humiliated so that each of them has legal, honest blood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-23-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, it's the end of the hour. Let me remind you that next week the MPs are working with the electorate. The Conciliation Council will meet at 11 o'clock on October 3rd, and the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday 4 October at 10 o'clock. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck.
