ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please register. [[10:01:27]] There are 369 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council will be open. Mate Matvienko is interested in where Head is. We need to read information messages. For those who have not been able to read, I inform. Today and yesterday there is an official visit by the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Serbia. Head of this delegation. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Yuri Vitaliyovich Odarchenko. Let's welcome him. Let me inform you about the results of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from March 15 to 18, this year. Six plenary sessions of the Supreme Council took place, 79 issues of the agenda were discussed, as a result of their consideration: 20 laws and 14 regulations were adopted, 4 bills and one draft decree were adopted, one bill and one draft decision were returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative, one bill was returned to the committee for further consideration, one bill adopted in the second reading except for individual articles and chapters and sent to the committee for further elaboration with the next submission of the bill for second reading. 26 bills and 6 draft decrees have been rejected. During the last plenary week, 122 parliamentary requests were made. Let me make an announcement. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and according to the signatures of the 24 Ukrainian National Deputies, I report the creation of an interfractional "Youth Choice" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of the inter-fractional parliamentary association "Young People's Choice" are the Ukrainian National Deputies: Pinchuk Andriy Pavlovich, Davidenko Andriy Anatoliyovich, and King's Eugen Igorovich. Dear National Deputies! According to the 25th article of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to present the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups for proposals, announcements, statements, messages. The factions and groups would like to sign up for the performance. Please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist faction. I'll remind you, four minutes. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u2	Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! I have a document in my hands called the Concept of the Verwulf Memorial Complex. I would like to state immediately that both I and my comrades are absolutely against the construction of such a complex. We are outraged at the fact that instead of dealing with the socio-economic problems that have arisen when warlords are destroyed in schools, when national fascists destroy the monuments of liberators, and power cannot find in the budget the means for the advancement of memorials and the graves of true heroes, the winners of the Great Homeland War, some today still have doubts about the idea of establishing monuments to the rulers of the Nazi Reich. I turn to the President from this rostrum, and to the Government to demand that the actions of officials seeking under the slogans of the establishment of a permanently functioning centre for the formation of high spirituality and the foundations of patriotism turn Hitler's former stake into a famous guerrilla province, Winnichina, Mecca, for the heirs of Nazi ideology and nationalist, neo-fascist groups in Ukraine. Of course, the history of the Great Homeland War must be known and remembered. There are numerous museums in various countries where materials, documents, eyewitnesses of Hitler’s crimes are collected. But this has nothing to do with the proposed Verwolf project. From Paris to Smolensk, Hitler was 16 years old, but only one Ukraine in Vinnice is going to present a monument and a monument to Hitler. Think of it, respectable voters and colleagues, the Verwolf introductory group of the so-called zone, the gate is planned in the form of a colonnade or arch with portraits of Fascism leaders and their symbols. Is that not the end of cynicism and the insolence of our veterans, all who have given their lives in the fight against fascism? Furthermore, in the area of the complex, the exhibition “Kazarma”, which will describe the conditions of service of SS and Wehrmacht soldiers, the headquarters exposition on the officers' privileges of the SS command, the “Otel” exhibition is planned to focus on biographies and the life path of the early Reich visitors. Maybe we can add a "biking chicken" that shot the Ukrainians here, right in Babi Yaru? Finally, one of the main inventions of the Verwolf complex, convinced by the authors of the project, should be the Reichstag exposition, which contains a historical reconstruction of the visits to Adolf Hitler himself, surrounded by a dark atmosphere of occultism, myths and mysteries. In order to attract young people, young people, young people and young people, as the culmination of this exhibition, the authors consider the materials that reflect Hitler and Eve Brown's relationship. Even the orange fools, I don't think it should come to mind, but unfortunately it does. Dear colleagues, I also pay attention to this because, until today, 1,800 remains of Soviet prisoners of war who have been tortured in Camp Stallah, 349 in Vinnice are still in the homes of the military and have not been handed over to the land. Is it not the ultimate betrayal of the heroes of the Great Homeland War and the low level of politicians who do such things? I call on everyone not to abuse the memory of the fallen in the battlefields of the Great Homeland War. The creation of such memorial complexes, as proposed by Verwolf, is certainly aimed at promoting Fascism and Fascist symbolism, poses a serious public threat — the threat of Ukraine's non-fascism. The concept of the Verwolf project is contrary to both national and international laws and moral standards. Please consider my statement as an official parliamentary request, and let this be a test for the current authority. In conclusion, I propose that all those who are the authors of this project and who are in the public service be immediately relieved of their posts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u3	Finish up. Zarubinsky Oleg, a faction of the People’s Party, has the word to prepare for Sorochinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u4	Dear citizens, you know in advance who will speak from this rostrum depending on party ownership and on the place in today’s national and social body. And I want to tell you about absolutely specific things, how to avoid being deceived by the payment of utilities and thereby protect your rights. During March of the month, you were invited to sign contracts in the apartments of many apartments. A few moments: the total amount of the contract for the maintenance of buildings and buildings and adjuvant areas, which is stated, is proposed for you to sign under it, 10-12 percent more than even in the printing press the amount of cleaning costs, for utility services, including even profit. So the question is, where did you get this 10 or 12 percent of the surplus that you're offered to pay? It's very simple: from the very beginning, this includes fines if you don't pay in time for utilities. This is legal nonsense. This is a legal deception. You don't have to pay in advance for someone who thinks you're going to pay in time. First. The other one. These fines are taken on a higher plane. So if you spend both one day and 30 days, you pay the same amount, which is absolutely wrong. And that's why I urge you to look at the numbers and figure out what's wrong before signing these community service contracts. One second. The left hand side of your utility fee according to this same printing refers to cleaning up the adhesion areas and cleaning the stairway cages. That's it. The cleaning of the stairs is calculated from each meter of your total area over half an hour. I figured out, and it turns out, for the cleaning lady's 12 hours of work, and this is one approach to the 5-story house of the cartilage, she was going to be paid for what you're paying, over 600 bucks. 600 bucks for 12 hours of full-time work. There are no cleaning women who pay for this kind of money. This means that these numbers, if not in order, are several times higher than the actual cleaning costs. Note this and sign such numbers. Third moment. Cleaning up the adjuvant areas from every meter of your total area of your apartment or dormitory room is almost a bracelet. Where did this figure come from? It's very simple. In most cases, the area that is cleared by your account includes a private parking area, a private cafe, and other objects that you have no bearing on, but that you have to cover with your money for cleaning. So I ask you to look closely at these contracts. And then there's the moment that's about the government. So today, there's a decree number 529 of May 20, 2009, which says that the calculation basis for the calculation of utility from you is one square meter of your living area -- that's absurd, and that's stupid. Because neither the cleaning of stairs nor the disposal of garbage depends on the number of square meters but depends on the number of people who walk through the stairwells and who produce the garbage. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u6	So I ask my speech, especially the second part, to consider an appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately review the unjust and, excuse me, an absurd decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u7	Thank you. Soroczynska-Kyrilenko has a word from the Reform Group for the Future. She'll go after her.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u8	Soroczynska Kirilenko, group of Reforms for the Future. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The agricultural and food market situation dictates the need for land reform to address the problem of efficient land management, investment in agriculture, the introduction of advanced technologies that will enable Ukraine to claim the role of world leadership in food production. The reform of land relations will also solve the problem of saturation of our internal market in agricultural products of domestic production. It will provide our citizens with quality and affordable products. The solution to this problem is extremely important in the context of the worsening of the world’s food crisis, whose trends will be increasingly evident as the planet’s population rises. Under these conditions, successful land reform will be a driver of not only domestic agriculture but also the economy as a whole. In this regard, it should be noted that even now better Ukrainian farms have a profitability of 30 to 40 percent, which in itself speaks of the potential of our agricultural sector. Our MP group claims that there are no alternatives to land reform, as there is no possibility of putting it back in a long box. Those who save to put it back to better times are hypocrites, as they also support the existing shadow schemes of the earth’s market, through which they lose, primarily our peasants. In our society and above all, Ukrainian peasants need a full-fledged functional ownership mechanism on the ground, and there is no need to pay attention to any speculation on this issue, since most of them are demagogies of those who are not interested in establishing an order in land relations in the establishment of a transparent market for land. Land resources are clearly of strategic importance to us, so the approach to land reform needs to be taken very seriously, taking into account not only the economic but also the political and social dimension of land reform. It is also necessary to guarantee the transparency of the land market for agricultural purposes, which can be ensured, first and foremost, by the creation of a single system of the State’s land cadastre. It is necessary to establish a strict order for the sale of land only at open trades and competitions, to foresee other possible mechanisms against land speculation, market monopolization, land agricultural assignments. In conclusion, when the issue of land reform was discussed in the United States with President Jefferson, he said, "If you want to get a flowering garden in the desert in seven years' time, sell the land at any cost to the farmer that he will live and work there. If you want to get a desert in a flower garden in seven years, give it to me. "
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u10	The parliamentary faction of Reforms for the Future insists that as soon as possible, in the sessional room, draft laws on the creation of a transparent market for land, a single State cadastre, and the start of land reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u11	From the faction of "BUT" - "The Fatherland" is Andrew Kožemiakin. Get ready, Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u12	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Today, the government’s economic policy is clearly a disgraceful failure. The only hope of power is foreign loans. For their purposes, the authorities are willing to sacrifice to everyone and primarily to the welfare of the citizens, to carry out any demands of foreign creditors, to enact the laws they have written, even if they result in irreversible consequences and social explosions in the state. Now almost every citizen in Ukraine has felt that it is such an improvement in life now and that it is that "life has become better, life has become more fun." The sweet social promises that flowed throughout the country, and especially in this room a year ago, quickly turned into antisocial horrors. In fact, every day people get crazy prices for life-saving products, drugs, shock payments for residential services. Since April 1, the government has made another gift to the people, raising the cost of electricity for consumption by 15 percent. In doing so, the owners are asked to pay off billions of debts to government partners, while for ordinary people they raise tariffs, introduce foam, and take away homes. In these circumstances, it has become impossible for most compatriots to live normally, and it is not the IMF's fault. Under cover, our citizens’ money is pumped into the pockets of monopolies and private owners of energy, gas, and many other structures, including offshore. But the quality of service does not improve, but rather the opposite. At the same time, wages, pensions, scholarships, and other social benefits are essentially frozen. Even the statutory indexation does not pay or plan to do so in the future. How can the recent increase in pensions be seen as a concern for the social protection of the people in certain categories of citizens? Our political power requires the government not to engage in populism and distracting maneuvers but to take immediate action on real matters. And first of all, it's urgent to solve economic problems, especially really support, not strangle entrepreneurs. There is a need to stimulate production that provides high value added, and this is the way to new jobs that are worthy of pay. And then there's a substantial increase in the budget and the pension fund. Instead, in 2010, the number of unemployed in Ukraine for the first time in years, including the crisis year 2009, increased by 60,000. It is worth reminding today’s authorities that during the onset of the global financial crisis, which has had an enormous impact on the country’s economy. Timoshenko’s government paid both wages and pensions on time, there was no such increase in basic food prices, no higher prices for utilities, energy, and medicines. Today all the work of the previous government has been lost, and about half of the Ukrainian economy has returned to the shadow. According to official figures, last year's payroll fund was about 300 billion dollars. The same amount of money was issued to workers in envelopes. Under their legalization, the pension fund would receive some 70 billion dollars, nearly three times its current deficit. In view of this, the Fräulein of Yulia Timoshenko, Fatherland, calls for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily plenary meeting of the Supreme Council this week of the following bills: on the indexation of pensions, wages and social benefits to the level of real inflation; on the inadmissibility of foaming for the untimely payment of residential services; on the inadmissibility of violating the rights and limiting the social guarantees of citizens when entering into international agreements.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u14	Our faction believes that bills will provide basic protection for our citizens and can have a positive impact on the economic and social development of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u15	From the faction of the Party of the Regions, Gregory Kaletnik. He'll be followed by Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u16	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, radio audiences, and television viewers! The latest developments in Japan have moved mankind to review energy supply approaches. According to the initiative of President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine, nuclear power plants are being tested and their operating standards strengthened. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is involved in the implementation of specific programmes and in improving their security. It should be noted that Ukraine, after the tragedy that took place at the Chernobyl nuclear station, met with the international community without even receiving the promised compensation and to the detriment of its own economic interests, stopped the Chernobyl nuclear station. On April 8, this year, the President of Ukraine will hold meetings of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, where the necessary decisions will be taken from the indicated directions. The issue of energy security for Ukraine because of the fundamental dependence on imported energy, the steady rise in their world price and the need to create shelters for spent nuclear fuel remain a major component of national security. However, the world’s experience shows that Ukraine has alternative nuclear and thermal energy to provide its energy problem. This is a world-tested way of increasing the production of energy from renewable sources and the development of energy conservation. EU countries aim to achieve 20 per cent of renewable energy sources in the coming years. However, Ukraine’s energy strategy for the period to 2030, approved by the government of Yuri Yehanurov, has completely destroyed renewable energy sources. Within 20 years, their share is expected to make up a meager 6 percent. Now it's even worse. So today we have not more than 1 percent. Thus, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should urgently start working with the government to develop a new state strategy. Ukraine has been through a tragic experience of Chernobyl, I mean radioactive pollution of the environment, food, radiation, and animals. Of course, the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine will answer questions about not allowing this situation to occur in connection with emissions from emergency Japanese nuclear power stations. But every day, we will learn about the increasing extent of the destruction of agriculture and the radioactive pollution of Japan’s land territory and surrounding water areas. These events in the future are likely to have a very negative impact on world food security. So the faction of the Party of Regions sees two frontal directions. First, to prevent imports into Ukraine of contaminated food and technology. Second, in the situation that has arisen, Ukraine can benefit from its priceless treasure of fertile land and increase the production and export volume of agricultural produce, clean food to Japan, and other world markets. Not only will we help to solve catastrophic problems in areas affected by radiation and natural disasters but we will also be able to go out and secure ourselves in new markets for our products. Taking into account the urgency and urgency of solving the identified issues, the faction of the Party of Regions invites all political forces to work together to develop concrete further steps in this direction. We urge us to work together in the name of our Fatherland and our children’s future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u17	Thank you. Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u18	Dear fellow citizens, dear colleagues! We all feel sorry for Japan, which has been hit by an earthquake. But today, compassion is also worthy of Ukraine. Our state and society are shaking off socio-economic problems. Nearly 10 million Ukrainians live on the poverty line or worse. For the first time since 2003, this percentage has again increased in Ukraine. But the authorities tell us about economic growth every day. Ukraine is increasingly falling in the international quality of life rating. And now there's 73 places near Namibia and Botswana. Not surprisingly, according to sociological surveys, half of Ukrainians are ready to participate in mass protests, and the other half will soon be ready. All of this is a sad summary of the first year of government work. The bottom line is that our authorities are not ashamed to call themselves socio-economic reforms. Throughout the world, reforms mean progressive transformations, steps toward a better life for people. And we have a sad joke: reform is when, for the sake of a bright future, they sacrifice it today. The Ukrainian authorities, with loud words, have moved socio-economic problems on the shoulders of citizens, sat there alone, and put their feet on the table, and above all teaches that we must endure. Under discussions on education reforms, hundreds of thousands of teachers illegally set their salary below the living minimum of 613 dollars. Through mass rallying, teachers are asking the government for a 20% wage supplement. The Kabminian Copperfields postpone their payment in the autumn when these coins are eaten by inflation. The government's reform officer, Vice-Prime Minister Tihypco, always wants the so-called pension reform, even trying to intimidate people with his resignation -- a long time ago. The President and the Party of Regions have already admitted that the government project is not fit for anything -- the job is just down. It is said that living well on a pension is only bad. And in the case of a project called Tihypak, it will be impossible for pensioners to live. What was the point of having a public discussion if all the odinating points remained in place? This is an increase in retirement age, an increase of 10 years of minimum retirement, a suspension of pension benefits for working retirees for overtime, and so on. We still have a higher social security status. And now this "higher measure" is going to be introduced, so to speak, without trial or investigation, even though it's a lot of millions of Ukrainians. Sergey Tihypco also called for the adoption of the Labour Code by the end of the parliamentary session, but this codex of experts and journalists are already called firm. Again, it's against the people. The opposition is ready to help us adopt quality laws, but the authorities do not need them. When all important decisions are taken, our faction is ignored. Most by one wave, I approve of any bill they've been sent out of the Bank. If you continue to replace real reforms with talk and shullerism, you will get serious social upheavals, or, God forbid, a humanitarian disaster without earthquakes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, communication is over. Let's move on to the daily routine. We need to put a whole series of bills into the agenda of the day session. I'm voting on the proposal to include the draft Civil Service Act in the agenda of the day session. [[Registration number 8306]] The author of a bill by the President of Ukraine, who acknowledged it as urgent for further consideration by the Supreme Council. [[10:31:51]] For a hundred and I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Arrest of Assets relating to the Financing of Terrorism and on Financial Transactions Stopped in accordance with the Decision taken on the basis of UN Security Council Resolutions and the determination of the order of access to such assets. [[author of the Cabinet of Ministers bill]] Please vote. [[10:32:43]] For-286 Included in the agenda. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of Bill No. 8274, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means. [[washing]] The author of the Cabinet Bill. The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[10:33:26]] For 292 It's on. The proposal to include the agenda of the daily session is put to the vote the draft Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[Bill 8191 registration number]] The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[10:34:01]] For 249 It's on. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Bill No. 8294, which amends some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to simplify the process of initiating an enterprise. The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[10:34:44]] For 251 Copy that. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to simplify the procedures for the cessation of legal persons and natural persons. The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[10:35:19]] For 276 A decision has been made. There is a motion for the inclusion in the agenda of the Amendment Act. draft 3 of section VI, Final and Transitional Positions, of the Ukrainian Budget Code. [[on the international “Cyclonal-4” project]] [[Registration number 8316]] Please vote. [[10:35:55]] For 291 It's on. I'm asking the Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Baranov Valery Alexiyovich, to allow the committee to consider it, and we've adopted this bill at the evening session, because when we look at it, I'll explain the reason. A motion for inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8325]] Please vote. [[10:36:44]] For 290 It's on. There's also a proposal after. In the evening session, consider this determination. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in the agenda of the Amendment Act of some Ukrainian legislation on State support for agricultural development. [[Bill 8324 registration number]] Please vote. [[10:37:25]] For 232 It's on. It is proposed to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on facilitating the purchase of goods, jobs and services by the Agrarian Fund and agrarian higher education institutions]] [[Registration number 8164]] Please vote. [[10:38:05]] For 226 It's on. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the granting of State budget subsidies to local budgets to cover the difference in tariffs on thermal energy]] [[Bill No. 8121]] Please vote. [[10:38:45]] For 278 It's on. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to include Bill No. 8091, but it's completely absorbed in the following bills that we're about to vote on, so there's no need to include it in the agenda, because the following bills take these into account. I'll bet. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the improvement of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Tax Code]] [[Registration number 8217, 8217-1, 8217-2, 8217-3]] Please vote. It's an inclusion, they are. Take down the vote. Dear colleagues, when it comes to inclusion in the agenda, we are obliged to include and consider all alternative bills. What the decision will be, it will be up to you and me, which bill we will take. But to put it in the order of the day and consider all of us are bound by such a rule. That is why I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the Bills 8217, 8217-1, 8217-2, 8217-3, amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the improvement of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Tax Code]] Billers: -1 – Lapina, -2 – Royal, -3 – Royal and without Tyre – Homutinnik. [[8217]] Please vote. [[10:41:18]] For 265 It's on. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law of certain issues of write-off and restructuring of debt for natural gas consumption and electricity consumption is being considered. [[Registration number 8284]] Please vote. [[10:41:53]] For-29 The question is not included. The issue of the inclusion in the order of the daily bill, number 8285, is being considered: the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. [[on debt write-off to the State budget]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:42:29]] For-23 The bill is not supported. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda a draft decree marking the 140th anniversary of Vasil Stefanik's birth. Registration number 8182. Please vote. [[10:43:04]] For 314 Included in the agenda. I appeal to the chairman of the Yavorowski Committee to convene a committee so that we can consider this matter at the evening meeting. And so for discharge, dear colleagues. His son, Vasil Stefanik, was in his own time the deputy head of the Council of Ministers of the U.S.S.R., head of the Lviv execution. He's being attributed a fairly winged phrase. At one of the meetings, he said that the Soviet authorities had done very well to teach people to read, but it was bad that they had taught them to write. When the doorknobs were tortured. The draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the participation of the national jury]] Registration number 8308. Please vote. [[10:44:15]] For 226 Question enabled. It's about voting on the bill. on the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of the principle of the conduct of business by private entities without the application of seals. [[Bill No. 8311]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:44:56]] For the 220. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, there was an offer when we put the first bill to the vote, and we haven't moved away from the reflection and discussion that we've heard in different ways, and that's why we haven't focused. Who, in order to return to the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on State Service, please vote. [[Registration number 8306]] [[10:45:50]] For 224 Dear colleagues, the bill is the last -- 8311 has won 220 votes. There's an offer: go back to the vote. Who's to come back?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u20	I'm going to say it again, essentially. There is a rule in the Rules that allows you to return. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is not the third time, you listen carefully. Who is in favour of returning to the vote: the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of the principle of the conduct of business by private law entities without the application of seals, please vote. [[Registration number 8311]] [[10:47:03]] For 223 Not turned on. Yes, my fellow officers, two factions, two factions: the BUT factions of Kirilenko, and the NH-NS faction, Martinenko, have requested a recess to hold consultations on daytime issues and to make statements. Please, who? Vasil Kravchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u21	Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." On the night of April 1st, Adam Mikhailovich Yahiyev, president of the Open Association of Adams, was tragically killed by a well-deserved employee of the Ukrainian industry, a third-degree cavalryman. Member of the Hmeljna District Council of three exclamations, a multi-year member of the Party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. The life of a prominent conqueror known in Ukraine as a manufacturer, a mercenary, a trusted companion, and a family member, the father of four children, was interrupted by a bullet, and Adam Jahiev was assassinated in his own home. The investigation sets out the circumstances of a tragic event, however they may be found, it has to be noted, and in Ukraine there are times when the only way to find out is by ordering murders, rackets, and a thief’s hindrance. In the state, there has been an increase in crime, organized groups have once again experienced impunity, entrepreneurs and businessmen no longer conceal the facts of the return of "breathing" and in the streets of the population it has become dangerous to move citizens even in the daytime, society once again becomes defenseless from the abolition of lawlessness. No one, nor ordinary citizens, nor known individuals, is now immune from the insolent incursion of authority over the rule of law, man’s life as the highest value of the State, and man’s integrity are simply empty words that the authorities juggle before their own people and the world community. Adam Yahiyev has always stood on the foundations of democracy, sincerely scolded for the fate of Ukraine, worked hard to increase the economic potential of the country, never been outside the political process. About Adam Mikhailovich’s life and activities being hampered and the most cynical way to find out about relationships. Reality testifies to the danger of being in opposition today, and if a person manifests different political views and has a business, being in opposition is twice as dangerous. If, in the near future, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is unable to demonstrate the results of the investigation into the murder of one of the opposition politicians of the Hmeljna District Council, then there is no doubt that the murder of Adam Jahiev will become one of the most dirty and inexorable stains on the reputation of the acting Ukrainian government, on the reputation of the President and the leaders of all the power structures. The killing of Adam Jahiev is a tragic signal for all the Ukrainian business that is now undergoing raids and administrative pressure. If the leaders of the state fail to show their political will to find and punish the murderers of Jahiev, then there will be only one law in Ukraine, and the law of worthlessness and bullet will once again be a decisive argument in the life of politics, business, and all Ukrainian society, which means that every Ukrainian citizen can be targeted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, there is a need to exchange ideas, please prepare to sign up in a minute with regard to the bill, to include the draft Law on State Service. Please sign up. Please, Carmazine, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u23	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you know, we care so much about state service bills that we don't even know what's going on in the state, in the same public service. Imagine, in Odessa, a migrant detention center where 200 people are located, one third of the children, the fourth month of government officials do not pay their wages. They've reformed! This law, which is now being proposed for public service, violates the Constitution, violates common sense. There is a separate body, and the public service is separate. For there to be no such separation of personality, let it be worked out, this law then passed. You don't have to rape the hall, Adam Ivanovich, he told you twice that he doesn't support this bill. This is where state officials and civil servants are thrown out, and anyone who wants to, it's just an anti-constitutional law, I emphasize. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u24	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u25	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, we have indeed entered a period of extensive modernization of our society and various reforms. But one of the basic reforms is, of course, the Admin. reform and reform of the public service, without this serious change in life, is difficult to achieve. There is therefore a proposal to return and vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law initiated by the President on State service. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u26	Please, Sergey Sobolev, BEUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u27	Sobolje, "Timoshenko Yulia Block, Reform and Order Party." Dear colleagues, I think that twice the hall has already been quite correctly defined, in fact not including a daily bill that does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. The bill expressly prohibits parties from being public officials, which is the prerogative of an exclusive constitution, which defines the list of persons who are not allowed to be in parties. Moreover, this bill actually limits the notion of a civil servant and, in fact, on all these indicators, this bill cannot even be considered in the Supreme Council because it directly contradicts the Constitution. Instead, Bill 8289, the author of Teryochin, who directly regulates the small business situation, is not included. So we would like, if you're going back to this bill, to go back to a bill that directly touches millions of our fellow citizens, I mean small businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u28	Matthew Valentine, the UK Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear fellows, I will not speak in nuances, i.e. the basic, even the position of this bill. And I think it's clear to anyone who's looked at it carefully, not just read it and got to know it in detail. More than convincing, I think, is that the Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has given its negative, I stress, negative conclusion to this bill as far as 26 pages. Before that, Adam Ivanovich, I'll add, you've asked this question twice, I mean to include the bill in the agenda of the day session, and he didn't get most of the votes, that is, 226 or more. I ask you no longer to put this question to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u30	Yes. There are no willing factions from the factions that have not come forward? Dear colleagues! First of all, let's not forget that no one other than us is enacting laws, and getting into the agenda doesn't mean adopting a bill or agreeing to it. There is no doubt about it when we are considering the bill, and once again I remind you that the drafter of the bill is the President, who has recognized it as an urgent matter for further consideration by the Supreme Council. The positions that affect the interests of the national MPs, which are meant to be assistant consultants, the positions that colleague Sobolev here has been paying attention to where the excluded list of those who are not supposed to be party members in the execution of those or other positions and so forth, will no doubt be removed from this bill when considered either in the first or final vote. So once again, if we were to vote for the law, I understand your objections, and we only vote for inclusion in the agenda. When we consider the issue, you and I have the right to exclude, include, add, remove. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Because this does not even apply to this bill, 216 articles, because it is an entire law, which means that it can be included and deleted on the second reading or even on the first reading. That's one thing. () [[B in m in s a l in]] The other one. As far as Bill 8289 is concerned, the bill is due to be placed in the agenda on Wednesday. 8289 is a bill by a colleague of Teryochina, standing on Wednesday. So I repeat, Wednesday it stands and Wednesday it will be considered. One last time. Who, in order to return to the question of the draft Law on State Service, is asking to be determined. () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:58:31]] For 234 We're back. I would like to put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the State Service Bill (Registration No. 8306), please vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:58:59]] For 233 The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 183, "The Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 5, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 5. We are considering the draft Law on Transfer, Forced Derogation or Removal of Property under the legal regime of war or state of emergency. [[Registration number 7378]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please identify yourself. [[10:59:49]] For 226 Copy that. The Head of the State Registration Service, Jefimenko Leonid Vasilovich, has the floor. From the committee of the committee to prepare Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u31	Reverend Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! According to article 41, part five, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the compulsory alienation of private property objects can only be applied as an exception to the grounds for social necessity on the basis and in accordance with the law established and provided that their value has been compensated in advance and in full. Forced alienation of such objects and the subsequent full compensation of their value is permitted only under conditions of war or state of emergency. The draft law is aimed at determining the transfer mechanism, the compulsory alienation or removal of property in legal and natural persons for the needs of the State under the legal regime of military or state of emergency and compensation for the value of such property. The draft law provides for both the previous and subsequent full compensation by the State of the value of property, which may be forcibly alienated under the legal regime of war or state of emergency in enterprises, institutions, organizations, and individuals. The bill defines the circle of entities entitled to damages for property, the specificity of the decision on forced alienation, removal and transfer of property, the requirements for documents issued as a result of forced alienation or removal of property, the order and time limit for obtaining compensation for enforced alienated property, and the order for the return of forced alienated property that has been preserved. On November 17, 2010, the bill was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On 1 March of this year, the proposed draft was discussed at the Economic Policy Committee meeting and the results of the review were recommended for adoption of the draft bill as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u32	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Economic Policy Committee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u33	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You have before you a bill that has been tabled repeatedly by all the governments of Ukraine and, unfortunately, to this day. Not yet accepted to this day. The point is that in our Constitution there is an article that clearly determines that the compulsory alienation of private property objects can only be applied as an exception to the grounds of social necessity on the basis and in the order established by law and the conditions of prior and full compensation for their value. [[Part 5 of Article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine]] The thing is, if God forbid, this situation happens in Ukraine, we don't have a regulated order, a separate law that regulates this mechanism. It is clear, therefore, that the Cabinet of Ministers has passed the relevant law, and this law, in particular, is aimed at regulating legal relations related to the damages of the state’s property, which may be forcibly alienated from the owner under the legal regime of war or state of emergency, and defines the mechanism for both the previous and subsequent full compensation of the State’s property, which may be forcibly alienated again under the terms of war or state of emergency. The Economic Policy Committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. There's a reference to the scientific expertise that can be taken into account in the second reading. I made a personal comment on the committee that I, as a deputy, would also make a remark that the rules of this law would apply exclusively to cases provided for in the Constitution. So that we don't get alienated from Euro-2012, the Olympics and all that. Just a state of emergency or a state of war! Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u34	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes. Please sign up for the discussion. Two for, two against. Yes, "in pride of solitude," Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u35	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, I would like to draw your attention to what voters today say: How many laws can be produced? Systemize them, codify them, and that's the right requirement, absolutely. On this requirement, these are the criteria that the whole world is going to follow. What are we doing? What does the government do? And it produces butterfly laws to distract the public. And here's this new bill, which, I'm not saying that there's a small amount of this law, but only ten articles have some standards that apply to the legal ones, the other three -- the responsive norms and the fourth -- are defined. This is the law that our Head of the Supreme Council calls a butterfly law. What would you have to do? It would be necessary to amend the Law on the Legal Regime of War and on the legal regime of state of emergency. These are the changes that we need to make, and we need to remember that if we go to the adoption of such separate laws, we do not enrich our legislation, but rather destroy it. That's why I want us to be determined on this issue, but not in a separate law, this has to be done by making changes to these laws. If necessary, you can also see changes to the 353rd article of the Civil Code of Ukraine, which foresees conditions when a request is being made, what you're talking about here, about a mechanism of forced alienation of property under the rule of law of war or state of emergency. As a result, such a separate law should not exist in the civilized state of Ukraine. It should only be a fraction of others more.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u36	Yes, thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Transfer, Forced Derogation, or the removal of property under the right-wing regime of war or state of emergency. [[Registration number 7378]] Please vote. [[11:07:27]] For 258. The bill was passed. We're looking at the draft Military Engineering Act. [[Registration number 7520]] We can do it on short notice. Who's in favour of looking at the reduced procedure, please identify yourself. [[11:08:02]] For 206 Offer supported. Reported by Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. From the committee to prepare Kinahu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u37	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Military Engineering Act. A bill drafted by the Minprompolitics to implement the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the decision of the Ukrainian National Security Council of 20 July 2007 on the implementation of the State Programme for Reform and Development of the Defence and Industrial Complex for the period up to 2010. The problem addressed by the bill is that, to date, the general legal principles of government regulation and the specificities of relations related to the implementation of economic activities, production, maintenance, repair, modernization and disposal of arms and special military equipment are not defined. The bill regulates legal relations at all stages of the life cycle of military technology from its creation to its disposal and is the first step in the implementation of the concept of a national system for the development and production of weapons, military special technology, approved by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine number 756 of 01.07.2007. In 2009 The national system for the development and manufacture of weapons, military special technology, has been called upon to replace the corresponding system of the former Soviet Union. The purpose of the bill is to create conditions for the development and implementation of state policy in the field of military engineering, the production of competitive military technology and the provision of the needs of the Armed Forces and other military formations designed in accordance with legislation, the development of international manufacturing, scientific and technical cooperation in the area of the development and production of military technology. The objective is achieved by regulating the provisions of the draft legal regime of military technology, the basic principles of state regulation in the field of military engineering, the direction of practical implementation of the system of development and the establishment of weapons of military special technology, and the manner in which non-state investment is involved in the field. The bill does not contain provisions or measures that require material, financial, or other expenses. In view of what we are proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u38	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u39	In view of what has been said, we propose to support the draft Law on Military Technology. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u40	Thank you. Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u41	Honourable National Deputies, the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, discussed at its meeting the draft Law on Military Technology. In support of the concept of this law, the committee offers the following conclusions and suggestions for your consideration. At this time, there is a very responsible process based on the decisions of the National Security and Defence Council and President of Ukraine's decrees, the preparation of a review and approval of Ukraine's national security strategy, the defence doctrine, the reform and development programmes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, including appropriate programmes for the further development of the defence and industrial complex, the production of technicians and weapons. The above project is an urgent component of creating the necessary conditions for strengthening national security and defence of Ukraine and is very relevant. At the same time, the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine points out that the bill does not clearly define the direction of the planning system, the coordination of the actions of the executive bodies, including the latest decisions in the framework of administrative reform, the issue of defence procurement and rhythmic, the step-by-step financing of the relevant military engineering defence order. [[Similar findings are also shared by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council.]] It's a very principled way of creating a state-private partnership for investment. On the basis of the foregoing, the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council proposes to the Supreme Council to take a decision on a draft law on military engineering, with a view to re-reading it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u42	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? There aren't any. Then I'll bet. Excuse me, besides Carmazin, who else insists? Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u43	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to how the current Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Azarov, does not qualify. I was supposed to tell you today how laws are being implemented when government officials don't pay salaries for more than three months, when there is no response, I'm asking President Yuri Miroshnick's representative to inform the President about all the government's art. I think then these pictures would have been normal for the President to meet with the Prime Minister. And on the second day, we'd run out of the office and tell you to take your shoe and go for a walk, Mikola Janovich, it's time for you to get some rest. Because of this law, consider the production of military equipment! Don't agricultural technology have to be produced? Doesn't any technology need to be produced in Ukraine? Because the Ministry of Industry you destroyed, it's gone. You don't even want to think about it. We'll buy everything and bring in Chinese. Because of this, on the basis of the same principle as the previous bill, I stress that such a law does not have the right to exist on its own, there is no separate law in which there is no such thing as a full-blown rule. There's no law that's absolutely artificial in making and breaking both technical regulation of military technology and defense orders. I want to ask you if there's a law in the United States on the production of military technology and the answers, no, no, they don't think about it in government, they know they're producing normal technology and they're buying it. We need to talk about the lack of proper military equipment today. This law must be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u44	Please, which one of you? Mr. Cranwell, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u45	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, from the very content of the law, from the position that was very clearly expressed by the representative of the profiling committee and from the position that was taken in our faction, we can clearly establish one basic thing. This law can actually cause only one discussion today, or even the law is needed, in which case we need to send the author for further work if we find that this law is not necessary. And all the norms it contains can be freely incorporated into such Ukrainian laws as State Defence Orders, on the foundations of Ukraine's National Security, on State Support for Enterprises, on Scientific Research Institutions, on Organizations that develop and manufacture ammunition, on their elements and products of chemistry, and on licensing certain types of economic activity. If, however, we do find that we can make a separate law, and I doubt that there is such a need, but if we do stop at that, then it makes sense to re-read the law. Because it is completely accepted today in the first reading simply unrealistic, since it contains a number of contradictions and does not provide for mandatory and necessary amendments and additions to the bills I have already listed. He will come into conflict with them. And that's why we need to decide today, not by accepting it in the first reading, but by whether we vote in favour of sending the author, the Cabinet of Ministers for work, or whether we vote in favour of re-reading. According to our faction, it would be better to make adjustments and take into account all the useful, necessary and wise provisions of this law already in force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u46	Thank you. The discussion is over, dear colleagues. Both the speakers and the committee, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administrations, are the only ones who think the bill is necessary. First and second, it needs to be processed. Therefore, with your permission, I am voting on the proposal to give the subject the right of legislative initiative to draft Bill No. 7520 of the Military Technology Act. Please vote. [[11:18:30.]] For 263 Again, I remind you that we have decided to submit a bill to the subject of the legislative initiative. Such a subject is the Cabinet of Ministers, so the fate of the bill is in his hands. We are considering a draft Act amending article 19 of the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on Standardization and Certification on the method of calculating the cost of work associated with the mandatory certification of products. [[Registration number 8025]] Suggestions are made on the basis of a reduced procedure. Please make up your mind. [[11:19:29]] For 221 A supported idea. Welcome to the floor of Vice-President of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy, Mr. Witkin Leonid Mihajlovich. Get ready for King's Landing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has been drafted to implement part five of the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 11 November 2010 on certain issues of administrative services. The bill is designed to define a single approach to the costing of work related to the compulsory certification of products, to ensure transparency of the cost-forming mechanism for such works, and to take into account the interests of the contracting authorities with mandatory certification. These changes address the difference in the cost of the same type of work with mandatory certification. For this purpose, article 19 of the Cabinet of Ministers decree on standardization and certification of a new part of the fourth. According to which the method of calculating the cost of work associated with compulsory certification is determined and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill was reviewed and supported by a professional committee on industrial and regulatory policy and entrepreneurship, and the bill also received a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We ask the honourable national MPs to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u48	Thank you. Yes, please, Natalia Juryovna Královska, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u49	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, your attention is given to the draft Act amending article 19 of the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on Standardization and Certification on the method of calculation, the cost of work related to certification of products. [[No. 8025]] The purpose of the bill is to establish a common approach to value-building of certification works. That is, to establish the following rule: the procedure for calculating the value of such works is approved only by the Cabinet of Ministers. You are aware that the current cost-generating mechanism for mandatory product certification is not transparent. It is therefore an opportunity to use different corruption schemes. You also know that there is now no uniform methodology for determining the value of these works. And there is no one who is responsible in our country for the fact that the cost of work is too high, because the additional tax value of certification today is easily manipulated by all those on the market and at that price. Therefore, the cost of even uniform certification works varies considerably in each particular case. In such circumstances, it is clear that the interests of certification contractors are not respected. And the logic algorithms are not seen either. Most of the time, they are imposed on them the cost of work that is necessary for the safe living of officials. What is specifically proposed in the bill? The draft proposes to supplement article 19 of the Cabinet of Ministers'Decree on Standardization and Certification. In this case, the Committee supports the draft law. And the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council proposes to adopt the draft law as a basis. [[8025]] Please support the Committee's decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u50	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Yes, whoever wants to talk, please sign up. Yes, please, Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Is this the main question that we should consider today after two weeks of absence of plenary meetings in the plenary regime of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Or perhaps we needed to consider how the changes and additions that have been introduced into tax legislation that have made it possible today to close nearly half a million people who were engaged in entrepreneurial activities. Or should we discuss the arbitrary nature of the law enforcement agencies that made plans yesterday to tolerate the authorship even at Perova in Kiev and even to include a special service for that purpose? At least that's what the representatives of the independent union say. Is it important to think that the fuel has already fallen behind the world’s prices and that it will now be able to bring about the cost of all food, or the cost of electricity, and not to scare people with these new payments? Or what to do with subsidies to cities that are optimizing and, more specifically, violate the Constitution of Ukraine, reducing the number of health and education institutions prohibited by the Constitution. And we, you see, one sentence we want to talk about here in a couple of readings. Because of this, there is only one sentence here to add to part four to article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on Standardization, Certification, which is long overdue to replace by law, honourable officials. We've forgotten what decrees are, and we're still amending the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. What's so embarrassing? So these words, "the methodology for calculating the cost of work associated with compulsory certification," are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u52	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. But you have exactly the same rights as the Cabinet. You also have the right to make suggestions and to make suggestions. Dear colleagues, I would ask you not to lynch the buttons. I won't do it for you. I called it in, I didn't sign up, it's your problem. Hasuk, please, but this is the last time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u53	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I have a question for Mr. Whitkin. For instance, literally a week ago in the town of Cherniv, such a regional representation opened up under the title." Consulting Group", Main, 265-A. And people come to me and say there's a certificate for one piece of paper to pay 8,000 hundred dollars. So I have a question, why not 12, why not 17,000, but 8,100, when it costs, this paper, 1 thousand 120 dollars? I'm going to send this letter, my request to you, and I'm going to ask you to answer me in order to give an answer to those people who have come to me. But I think it's not a fight against corruption, it's a fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u54	Thank you. Your statement confirms the need to adopt the bill. Because it says here: The method of calculating the cost of work associated with the mandatory certification of production is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And now they're taking this technique out of the ceiling, and everyone's worth as much as they want, because he's a monopoly. And here, if we accept, I hope that we will adopt this law, that there will be only one method for everyone, and then there will be no problems. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I think we have every reason, and this has been highlighted by the speakers, and the committee's decision is something that's passed a bill as a whole. I am voting on the adoption of the whole Act amending article 19 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on Standardization and Certification. [[on the method of calculating the cost of work associated with the compulsory certification of products]] [[Registration number 8025]] Please vote. [[11:29:30.]] For 259. The law is passed. We are considering the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment. [[on Civil Protection Units]] [[Registration number 7250]] There's a short cut. There's a little law here too. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:30:07]] For 211 Copy that. He will report to the First Deputy Minister of the Emergency Situations of the Bogotás Mikhailo Vasilovich. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u55	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law of Ukraine amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment has been submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the aim of eliminating the legislative coalition, which has been established following the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection Principles and the implementation of the National Civil Defence Programme, which has resulted in the adoption of the National Fire Protection Units Act. As a result of the reagents, military personnel of the civil defense forces were granted the status of military and civil protection personnel. The purpose of the law is to introduce the legal, financial and organizational principles of compulsory State social insurance in the event of unemployment of a special composition of organs and civil protection units, and to apply the law in the Ministry’s emergency system in practice. The draft law received a positive conclusion from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority that, as a result of the first reading, the bill could be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u56	Thank you. From the committee deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! The bill consists of four sentences, and it changes only one article, where the term is defined. The point is that, as the deputy director of the Civil Protection Service said, we changed the name, and when we made changes to the Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance, it would not seem to extend to this category of people to civil protection units. That's why I won't have it for long. I'll say one thing. This bill does not require amendments and additions to other legislative acts. First. The other one. This bill does not require a penny from the budget. Thus, a perfectly fair colleague of Paul’s is a purely technical bill. On the committee, we decided to recommend a session hall to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u58	Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Please, Pavlovsky. Get ready, Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u59	Andrey Pavlovski, the faction of the "Julia Timoshenko" – "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! Dear fellow national MPs! Indeed, the prescribed bill is technical in legal terms and is essentially based on the fact that the words "civil defence troops" in the text of the law will be replaced by the words "civil action organs and units." protection" in the corresponding differences throughout the text. Therefore, not only is the opposition harshly critical but it also suggests that, if this is necessary for the case, it is constructively supportive of the bill. The Yulia Timoshenko faction – "The Fatherland" will vote on the prescribed law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u60	Yes, please, Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich, your honorary colleagues, the Reformation faction has also considered this bill at its meeting, and we have come to the conclusion that it can be voted immediately in general. And so we suggest that we don't create a coalition, that there be no problems in the people working in this important area for the period that will still be needed for the second reading procedure, where there's nothing to add to the bill, vote it out in general, send it to the President and let people feel more secure, those who may have the right circumstances, employment, civil protection and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u62	Yes, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we have a maneuvering ending, a conclusion that calls our Head of the Supreme Council Vladimir Mikhailovich a butterfly finisher, one that can be taken into account in a complex approach to those issues. I would like to point out that there should be an extremely economic situation in Ukraine that predicted unemployment. We now anticipate what will be done and what will be done with the general government unemployment insurance. Every case of job cuts, the closure of an enterprise today is to be reported exclusively to the President, who has taken full responsibility for the state of affairs. As a result, the situation might have changed. With regard to this bill, as a representative of the Party of Fatherland Defenders, I agree and agree with the proposal made today by the representative of the Committee, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi. There is absolutely nothing to consider when adopting such a law in a second reading. All you have to do is replace the words "civil defenses" with the words "internal organs" with the words "civil protection organs and units." The same is true of the third paragraph of paragraph 10. It's in article 1 of the Act on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance. But I'm more interested in why, until now, won't the Ministry call off a disgraceful letter to retirees who are doing their pensions in the 2007 base? I'd like them to answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u64	Yes, thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, let's support the opinion of the committee of profile, which proposes to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Just on the ground? Yes, the keynote microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u65	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I understand that such an offer has the right to exist. Yet, I would like to remind you of our recent practice when we reviewed the decisions we made in general as a result of legal inadequacies. I don't see a problem here making a short time of making proposals for second reading, but I don't see any reason to break the rules so abruptly and accept the bill from the wheel. Let's give a week to make proposals, and the next plenary week. The bill is not a fire, no acute problems, no pressing problems of the type of protection against the Chernobyl accident, it doesn't solve. So let us work in harmony with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u66	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Dear colleagues and Yuri Bogdanovich, first: Not only are we not harsh, we are not in violation of the Rules, for the Rules have a rule that we can immediately adopt laws in general. The other one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah. The second point of the bill is one: it is added in two sentences. Two sentences add one, two, three, four, five words: "organs and units of civil protection." That's it. Yuri Bogdanovich, please. It's a key microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u67	Adam Ivanovich, this is a status bill. The introduction of these words changes the status of the corresponding departments. Whether it has financial implications, I don't know. I would like to study the matter and find out for myself. I think a lot of MPs have the same questions. Why not? Once again, what is the urgent need to accept it as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u68	The urgent need is dictated by the economy of resources, time and all. I repeat. In fact, there are other civil protection agencies that are added to the list. And that's it. Dry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I think it's unacceptable when principles are demonstrated in the session room for the sake of principles. I may be quick to speak, or you may not have listened to me. This bill does not provide for amendments and additions to other bills. First. There's a conclusion of scientific expertise that's completely positive, with the same recommendation as the committee, to accept it as a whole. And the main thing. He does not require any additional funds from the State Budget. Why should we accept it? But because the objectives of the civil protection unit fall under the Act on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance. There are living people working there. So it happened that in 2008, when the law was passed, it was released. We're taking this co-operation out. And in the first article, which is called "Determining Terms." The definition of terms is 5 words: civil protection authorities and units, plus transport services, the State Special Liaison Service, information protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u70	Yuri Bogdanovich, have you improved? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u71	May I? Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I think the principles exist because they are the principles underlying the activity. Those who do not follow the principles act unprincipledly. And that's for that colleague who's been asking us to give up for a while. So I want to emphasize again. I have the right to study this bill after its adoption on the first reading, to see what it has to do with the status and budget, and then to think about whether it should be amended or not. If someone is in a hurry, set a short period of time, but I insist that time be given for amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u72	Thank you, your right, but it has no principle. Because here, you understand. I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the article of the first Ukrainian Act on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in Case of Unemployment. [[on Civil Protection Units]] [[Registration number 7250]] Please vote. [[11:42:43]] For 299 Copy that. I suggest we shorten the deadline for the second reading to seven days. Please vote. [[11:43:03]] For 259. Although, honourable colleagues, the rights of MPs, here we are delaying the consideration of the matter in vain. Bill number 7488 is under consideration, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving the provision of assistance to families with children, disadvantaged populations and improving their social protection]] [[Registration number 7488]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please identify yourself. [[11:43:50]] For 216 Supported. First Deputy Minister of Social Policy Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag has the floor. Get ready for Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, a government bill to amend some of Ukraine’s laws provides for the organization of state aid for families with children and low-income families. The text of the bill is provided. First. Exclusion from the list of documents to receive assistance in connection with pregnancy and childbirth, evidence from the place of residence for uninsured women that they are not working, serving, or learning that they will significantly reduce the procedure for granting such assistance from the State. The other one. Assignment of assistance to single mothers for children who have reached the age of 18 but are still continuing to study in general educational institutions. Third. The bill provides for the right of a woman to receive child support in the event of the death of a child’s father who has not been married. Four. The bill proposes to provide for a rule in the Law on State Aid to Families with Children, which establishes the cessation of child support to single mothers in the following cases: first, the removal of the recipient of parental assistance, the refusal of the recipient of child support, the employment of the child, the registration of the child before the age of 18 and in the event of the death of the child. Fifth. It is intended to grant the right to help those who do not work but who do research for a mentally ill person. To implement the bill, the State budget for 2011 provides 3 million 800,000 dollars. The bill is supported by the Committee on Social Policy and the work of the Supreme Council and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u74	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, this law really makes it easier to provide help to families with children who are underprivileged. Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag made a very detailed account of the advantages of this law. I also want to focus on what is being removed from the list of such positions that if a woman is pregnant, she should take the evidence that she is pregnant, that she is not working or studying, that she is being removed. If she is pregnant, she should receive some help. The other one. It is also foretold that if one of the breadwinners or mother or father died, the other should receive this help. Next, Vasil Ivanovich said, is that those who care for the disabled of the P group as a result of a mental disorder are not included in the disabled. And they thus have the right to receive social assistance. I'm going to point out that at this point, certain issues are settled by the Cabinet of Ministers and separate decrees. But what the government is doing is saying that the government would like it to have this anchor on the legislative level. And that's really, if we vote, I'm sure there won't be any people who will vote against it, we'll strengthen the social protection of low-security populations. Everyone who has examined this bill, and the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Economics, and other authorities, they support this bill, and our Science and Research Office supports it. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Work has considered this bill and recommends that it be accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u76	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u77	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Please pass on the word to Vladimir Viezowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u78	Viazowski’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u79	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". I would like to say and complement a colleague who spoke on behalf of the faction that was sent by this bill we have considered. And everyone, both the opposition and the pro-government political forces, supported this bill and proposed to the Supreme Council that our committee vote unanimously in favour of this bill. I'd like to make a point. Of course, there are a number of points and innovations proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers regarding an additional article in the bill. This is article 18, paragraph 4, the very conditions under which child support for single mothers ends. I think that before this article there will be a lot of comments by national deputies, including most. Clearly, then, this bill is worth accepting in the first reading. Because it solves a number of conceptual issues, and in many cases it makes it easier to get some help, which applies primarily to pregnant women. But clearly, for the second reading, it is necessary to work on the article that I am stressing, article 18, paragraph 4. That's why we're proposing from the faction "Our Ukraine" to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u80	Thank you. Victor Corge.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u81	Victor Corge, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, the very fact that this law is being considered in the session hall today shows that caring for children, caring for families, is really a priority of public policy. And I would like to say that, despite the fact that this bill was not considered by the Health Committee, it will certainly contribute to improving the health of children, the health of families, and not only physical, but also spiritual, and moral. Because really simplifying the procedures for getting help, fortifying them at the legislative level, will greatly contribute to improving the socio-economic situation of the family and, in particular, the socially vulnerable members. Therefore, I am convinced that all conscious MPs vote and ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u82	Thank you, the discussion is over, the MPs are all conscious, so I ask you to support the decision to take the basis for the first reading of Bill 7488 on amending some of the laws of Ukraine on improving the order of assistance to families with children, low-security population groups and improving their social protection. Please vote. [[11:51:17]] For-300 The bill in the first reading was adopted. We're considering a draft law amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on the One Customs Tariff, registration number 8096. [[on Taxation of Imported Goods for Publishing Activities]] They're offering a reduced procedure. Please make up your mind. [[11:51:51]] For 217 Offer supported. Reported to the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Education, Plaxjuk Yuri Aleksandrovich. From the committee to prepare Pinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, is being brought to your attention by the draft Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Act "The One Customs Tariff", which was developed by the Statecomteleradio on the proposal of the Ukrainian Civil Service. The bill proposes to introduce article 19 that was still amended in 2008 on a single customs tariff, in line with the new edition of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, adopted on 21.12. Last year, which approved the Ukrainian classification of goods for external economic activities, as part of the harmonization of individual codes of goods and their textual description. So the codes of goods and the description of the goods of the Single Customs Tariff Act are not in line with the Customs Tariff Act in Ukraine, here. Changes include the presentation of individual product codes and their textual description in the new edition. The bill is accepted by the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is also positive, except for one warning about the validity of the law, but this situation can be reconciled in the process of processing. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy recommends the adoption of a bill on the basis of which the Supreme Council on Culture and Spirituality Committee and the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship support the bill. It has to be said that the implementation of the law will facilitate the receipt by entities of the aid industry by 2015 of import duties and VAT on goods not produced in Ukraine. This will allow us to relive our polygraph field and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u84	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u85	Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u86	Thank you. From the Pinkchuk Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u87	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 1 March 2011 reviewed the draft Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on the One Customs Tariff, submitted on 10.02. [[on Taxation of Imported Goods for Publishing Activities]] In 2011, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. The draft law provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the One Customs Tariff, which aims to carry out the codes and descriptions of the goods referred to in section "O" of the first article of the Act, in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Classification of Foreign Economic Activities. During the discussion of the bill, Ukrainian national MPs made comments on clarifying the list of codes, descriptions of goods that are not produced in Ukraine and imported for use in publishing activities and are subject to the tax treatment of imported duties. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office notes that, according to part two of article 1 of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, Ukraine's laws on establishing new or changing existing import duty rates take effect no earlier than the date of the start of the new fiscal year. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u88	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u89	Yes, then, please sign in. Yes, I will continue the meeting until the issue is resolved. Suchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u90	Adam Ivanovich, I'm asking my colleague Mikola Vladimirovich Tomenko to give his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u91	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the bill is necessary and correct because we have been operating in a system of promoting Ukrainian publications over the past few years. And in view of the adoption of the new Tax Code, it is obvious that this change must be made in order for publications operating in Ukraine to compete with the publications of other countries. Obviously, it's just as correct to look again at the benefits that are only related to ingredients that are not produced in Ukraine in order not to create possible problems for our manufacturer. Instead, colleagues wanted to point out that we are not the first year indirectly helping the publishing industry and publishing business through customs services. Instead, the State must check how the budget and the budget are used by one or the other publishers. Here we have, as I think, three categories of publications today: government publishing, which no one needs in recent years; private publishing and brotherly publishing. Brotherly Publishing is such a publication that the minister or head of the district administration, starting this publication with his friends, uses the budget to the fullest extent possible. Now, when it comes to publishing textbooks, the Ministry of Education tells me that the 10th grade will be completed soon, and 84 percent of the textbooks will be provided. When money is needed, it is printed in Brotherly Publications. Today, all of Ukraine, parents of children from the 5th to the 8th grade put 60 bracelets on booklets designed by the Ministry of Education in Brotherly Publishing to pass exams. No one knew we were going to have exams, now they said that in the 5th to 8th grade, four exams. Teachers Ask How to Surrender? If you don't know how to make a deal, buy 60 bracelets, they'll tell you. The whole country gives the minister of education and officials 60 dollars per brochure. These are our publications. So, honourable colleagues, let's support the law, but the state has to control how the budget is used by our publications.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u93	Stone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u94	I'd like to give the floor to a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u95	Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u96	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! I'm in this case, except I represent the position of the Reformation for the Future faction, and I want to say a few more words as former polygraphist and editor of publishing. The fact is that Ukrainian polygraph companies have not been able to make most of their own modernization. There's a part of, really, high-tech, totally modern publishing power, but it's not enough to produce on a competitive basis enough of this nomenclature of publishing products, including book products. This is not about publishing in Ukrainian, Russian, or other languages, but it is about ensuring that this area, which is strategically important to our nation, is provided with normal capacities, normal technical capabilities, and normal waste materials. In this case, there is no dramatic change in the new large premiums, and this is about regulation according to our classifications. The current situation, which is today, is in fact creating very serious obstacles that will allow for the acquisition of suitable materials and waste materials and techniques on the basis of the benefits. The introduction of this law will allow for what is already foreseen, which has already been done in the preparation of the budget, and so on, to be implemented in practice. I think it's strategically important. This bill needs to be adopted. I'd even be willing to support the adoption immediately in general, but really, there's a question about whether some of the budget indicators are going to change as a result, and there's been a warning by the deputies that individual positions might not be entirely in line with the relevant classification. So our faction is asking us to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u97	That's a good request, but I'm underlining that there's no faction like that, there's a MP group. Garbage George, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u98	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I went out and took the floor on this point because, you know, when we're looking at laws or other laws, we're saying that Ukraine doesn't produce and needs to be helped. So I ask myself and you, what does Ukraine do? What is Ukraine, apart from the raw materials exported to all countries that are now valuable from flour to metal produced by Ukraine? We almost destroyed such ideas that Ukraine could produce a closed cycle. Whether it's for bookmaking, or for building, or for aircraft construction, and beyond. We need to finally think, well, Ukraine is able to produce. For this there is a certain Academy of Sciences, there are appropriate fields that. It was Ukraine. Once it had its first place or could enter at least the competitive environments that are now in the world and focus on it at least. Because we keep talking and the argument is that Ukraine doesn't produce and let's give us the benefits. And how much can we give these benefits? And when eventually one or the other department says that let's do it, we're going to do it, or we're going to do it, or we're going to do it, and we're going to do it, and we're going to do it, and we're going to do it, or we're going to do it, and we're going to do it, and we're going to do it, and we're going to do it. And consider that if we were to close the borders today. Can Ukraine function as an industrial country as a whole? Never! Because we don't make anything! In the closed-circuit language. Not from the plow, to the plane included. So in the end, if you look from the point of view of my understanding of Ukraine's national security, you have to think about this in the end of the day to the departmental ministries, and what to focus on is how to allocate money to the State Budget, not asking for any kind of benefits. I am, of course, sure enough to support this bill, and in the end, we need to think about this important, very important issue in which the whole economy of Ukraine has come to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u99	Thank you. Question completed. I'll put the motions to the vote. The only thing I don't understand is what kind of problem we bring to second reading. Andrew Pavlovich, I'm calling. Why the committee is offering a second. The first reading, not the whole adoption of the bill? What should we correct in the second reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u100	The committee's offering, maybe. I supported the whole thing. In general, go ahead, Adam Ivanovich. Here's the only thing. That's the science-expert management that's been going on since next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u101	So, dear colleagues, let's do this. According to the One Customs Tariff Act, where we are making changes now, Article 1 of this Act states that any changes will take effect from the beginning of the new financial year. So I would like to add that this law takes effect on 1 January 2012 and that it will be passed as a law as a whole. Please vote. including the Budget Code and the law to which we are amending. [[12:04:51]] For 275 The law is passed. But once again, it enters into force in accordance with the Budget Code, in accordance with the One Customs Tariff Act of January 1, 2012. Thank you. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u102	We're continuing the meeting. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs is under consideration. [[on the Industrial Finance Group]] [[Bill 7477 registration number]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:36:06]] For a hundred and Who's in charge of coming back? [[12:36:30]] For 186 We're not back. Yes, please, Bandurov Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Prepare Pinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft Act amending the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on State Customs is proposed. The draft Law was designed to introduce the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On State Customs" in accordance with the Ukrainian Act "On Recognition of the Law of Ukraine "On Industrial Finance Groups in Ukraine", which was adopted on 9 September 2010. Ukraine's Industrial Finance Group Act lost effect on 2 November 2010, which led to the exclusion from the text of the relevant Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the regulations relating to the conduct of State duties in the creation of industrial and financial groups. The implementation of the law does not require additional funding from the State budget and will not affect the spending and income of the State budget. We propose a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on State Customs to be accepted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u104	Thank you. Any questions? Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Andrew Pavlovich Pinchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u105	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Let me remind you that the draft Law on Amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, provides for the exclusion of the provisions relating to the administration of the State's duty for the preparation of the project for the creation of industrial and financial groups, since the Ukrainian Industrial and Financial Group Act has become invalid. Thus, the bill is of a technical nature. Taking into account the above-mentioned committee at its meeting on February 15, 2011, as a result of its consideration of Bill 7477, he decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and generally as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u106	Thank you. Is there a question? None. Have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Are there no wanters? Dear colleagues, indeed, the bill is of a technical nature, since there is no longer an entity of economic activity such as industrial groups, industrial and financial groups. It is also necessary to clear up legislation accordingly. I propose to support the committee's position on adopting a bill under number 7477 on amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on State Customs. [[on the Industrial Finance Group]] Please vote. [[12:39:52]] For 235 Thank you. The law is passed. We should now consider the draft Law on Gardening Society. [[Registration number 5533]] However, National Deputy Samylenko wrote a letter in connection with his presence today with the President of Ukraine in the Dnipropetrovsk region, asking to be transferred to the next plenary week. I'm putting to the vote a motion to postpone Bill 5533 for the next plenary week, please support. [[12:40:48]] For 201 Not supported. Then we'll consider, there's a proposal to consider a reduced procedure, please identify. [[12:41:12]] For 209 Supported. Then I invite the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Perestenko Marina Volodymyrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Your consideration is suggested for consideration by the draft Law on Gardening of Societies, introduced by the National MP of Ukraine, Samoylenko. I would like to emphasize that the settlement of relationships that arise in the creation and activity of societies is of a very relevant nature. But the following is to be noted: the bill does not express the need for legal protection of garden societies, it has the nature of the statute, and it deals with the issues that arise in the creation of any public organization, i.e. it is governed by the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens. Some of the provisions of the bill are not in line with the provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land, particularly in the title of the Law on Planting Societies, the definition of the terms "garden", "land plot", "land areas of common use". The bill requires substantial technical and legal work. Yes, there is no defined legal form of establishment and activities of garden societies, there are no legal acts governed by members of these societies. Article 14, entitled “The Rights of the Members of the Garden Society”, duplicates Article 9, “The Rights and Duties of a member of the Garden Society”, although it regulates, by its content, the rights of ownership to land areas, as regulated by the relevant articles of the Civil and Earth Codes of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, having examined the bill in detail, notes most of its articles and suggests, in its conclusion, that the bill should be rejected as a result of the first reading. Based on the above and taking into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u108	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u109	and taking into account the request of the author of the bill, the committee proposes to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the proposed bill to return to the subject of the legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u110	Yes, if you want to share in the discussion, write it down. Yes, they are, Hellhound, please, the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u111	I think that both the rapporteur and the author of the law and everyone present understands that the problem of people today living in garden societies is there. Because of a number of circumstances, these gifts, so-called, have long become homes and people live there in families, people live in streets where no ambulance can be reached and people are living in a state of time, and uncertainty. And I'm sure that any national MP who's running the party has faced this problem. Therefore, the problem as such cannot be kept away from it and cannot be closed to it. I think that the proposed decision to return the author to work, it really makes sense and is confident that the Hall will support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u112	He's stoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u113	Stone, the Reforms for the Future faction. I also really want to support both the co-reporter from the committee and the previous speaker, because there are a lot of gaps in the issue of gardening societies, and people are suffering from it. In my own example, on the example of meeting with my constituents in the District District of Kharkiv, in particular on the example of the Gardening Society "Friendship" in Kharkiv, I confirm that this is indeed the case. It's not just about living in garden societies, it's about sharing property, roads, energy supply and a whole range of other problems. The bill therefore needs a very thorough revision, and the relevance of the problem is urgent, and it exists. This is a matter to be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u114	Thank you. But to you, Valery Grigorovich, as a representative, and not a representative, but one of the directors of the regulatory committee, I make a note. There is no reform for the future, there is no parliamentary group. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u115	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, do we need to answer the question: Is the law necessary or not? Moreover, the committee had a negative conclusion. The main scientific and expert administration has also made a negative conclusion about this law. But we should point out that today there are several million people involved in the country and have the opportunity to work, to live in garden societies, and that the protection of their constitutional rights should be normalized. Because there is a mixed interpretation of this legislation and, in principle, it must be said that it is a good thing that we have made any progress on this problem. Another question. That the bill is raw, but I think we should send it back for processing. But you don't have to pay attention at all. Perhaps it would be better for us to make a separate chapter in the Law on the Uniting of Citizens, where garden societies would be recorded and evidently would have made changes to the Codex earth. Because in this project, it's a confusing terminology, but we don't care, we owe it to those people who are members of the garden societies. And despite the fact that this bill is a little less legal, I still think that trying to resolve these legal relationships is a positive one. And so I would ask the committee not to forget about this and to send, under control, this bill to be drafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u116	Mikola Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u117	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. In fact, an indefinite status in garden societies has been a problem since 2008, when a mass re-registration of garden societies began in the service of cooperatives. Thus, at present, they may have a status, or cooperative, or union, of citizens. And yet, there is a lot of controversy in the legal relationship between members of garden societies and other institutions. Practical work suggests the need to adopt a bill, although perhaps not in the proposed text. I would like to point out accordingly that there are a number of significant disagreements in the project. So the bill is called "The Garden Society," and it uses the term "the Garden Society." However, the Ukrainian Code of Land uses a different term for "plantarian society". Part four of article 14 of the project uses the term "joint land" which is contrary to the Earth Code, which defines the legal status of the land of general use rather than the common land. The bill also makes no sense where the property is transferred if the land is voluntarily refused. Well, there are a number of other contradictions, serious, by the way, contradictions. In view of the above, even though the bill has already been highlighted, it is very necessary, but this bill should still be sent for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u118	Thank you. Question completed. The Committee's conclusion is to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The conclusion of the Chief Research Administration is to reject the bill. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Law on Gardening Society. [[Registration number 5533]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:51:06]] For 1 The committee's proposal for a vote is to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to draft Bill 5533. Please vote. [[12:51:40]] For 243 Decision taken. We are discussing the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Responsibility for Violations of Public Order in Sports and Other Cultural Action. [[Registration number 2267]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[12:52:18]] For 203 Supported. The author of the Moskal Hennaday Hennadiovich bill, I don't see him. Then, from the committee, the head of the committee’s committee on law enforcement, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u119	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues! Hennady Hennadyovich Moskal, a colleague of ours, drafted a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[on responsibility for violations of public order during sporting and other cultural activities]] The bill focuses primarily on improving safety in Euro-2012 football competitions. Despite the numerous comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, our committee has joined them and believes that the bill is designed for further development. But the main reason, dear colleagues, is that the Hennadia Hennadiovich Moskal bill was registered on June 22, 2009, almost two years ago, and on February 17, this year, you and I passed a bill in the first reading, number 7,137 authors, our colleagues Zac, Prasolulov, on the same subject, and this bill has already been considered in the committee for the second reading. And these proposals, which are part of the Bill of Hennady Moskal, are part of Bill 7137. So the committee, like the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, is recommending that a bill be drafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u120	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? None. Then I put to the vote the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on responsibility for violations of public order during sporting and other cultural activities]] [[Registration number 2267]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:55:01]] For two. The proposal of the Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work, please be determined. [[12:55:28]] For-37 Not supported. The bill was rejected. We are considering the draft Law on the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2470]] Moskal Hennaday Hennadiovich is also the author of the bill. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. [[12:56:01]] For 210 Supported. Yes, there is no Moscal. Then the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Oliynik Volodymyr Mikolayovich. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u121	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement was discussed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, a draft law on the Ministry of Internal Affairs. [[Moscalm, Grizzenk, Kuzmuk, Scybinetsk]] The purpose of the draft law is the legislative definition of the status of the Ukrainian Ministry of Law. The bill stipulates that the Ministry of Internal Affairs will have special formation status in Ukraine’s Ministry of Internal Affairs for the protection and defence of important public entities, public order and the fight against crime, and other tasks that require constant operational readiness and increased mobility. The bill also identifies basic tasks and the special membership rights of the Ukrainian Ministry of Law. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. After considering Bill 2470, the committee considers it necessary to finalize it. The reasons for this are the following. Presidential Decree No. 820 of 17.08.2010 established a working group on judicial reform. One of the tasks of this group is to develop a new Criminal Procedure Code with further adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee believes that any structural changes in the law enforcement system should be the result of the adoption of a new Criminal Procedure Code that will identify the main elements, especially the system of pretrial investigation. The other one. A number of basic laws are being developed, including prosecutorial and police laws. A redistribution of tasks and functions should be carried out in the system of law enforcement authorities. Fragmentary changes in Ukraine’s law enforcement system will not result in an expected improvement in the criminal system.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u122	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u123	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u124	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? None. I guess that's the initiative, that's the desire. I'm voting on a proposal for acceptance as a basis for the first reading of the Ministry of the Interior's rule of law service. [[Registration number 2470]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:59:16]] For-0 The proposal of the committee and the Chief Scientific Expert to return to work. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:59:40]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The issue is being addressed, the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the right of the suspect, the accused, the defendant]] [[Registration number 6654]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please make up your mind. [[13:00:16]] For 212 Supported. Please, Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich, author of the bill. Prepare Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u125	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, if we ask whether there are facts in Ukraine when people are beaten out of appearances with respect or confessions against themselves. Well, it's clear to everyone that, according to the information that's constantly being published in the media, there were these facts and there are. Now for the question. When such facts and demonstrations occur, these people should be beaten up? With lawyers or no lawyers? If statistics were taken when such cases were broken so - called in court, when people were acquitted, when they were rehabilitated, when real criminals were found, and then they were acquitted, it was clear that when they returned to the study of these criminal cases, all appearances of a duty or of a confessional nature were first received by law enforcement authorities without lawyers. What is proposed by the bill, in the first place? That is, if a lawyer is involved in a case, his immediate investigators should be involved. He has to work with his defendant. All follow-up should be with a lawyer. Why? Because when a lawyer comes to his defendant, his day or two or three are not allowed to do so. Then what's going on? And what happens is that at this time, this unsub is working with him to provide the necessary evidence for the investigation. I want to read the scientific conclusion. There's a note here that they might be removed before the second reading, but the main thing is: the science-expert administration, when they analyze the project, thinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u126	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u127	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. That is correct, as its positions will contribute to the implementation of the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine and of a citizen in the course of criminal proceedings and will prevent the abuse of the bodies of knowledge and judicial investigation in the course of the detention and detention of persons. But the question is, these same words are in the conclusion of the Main Committee. But why does the Main Committee say "to work"? That these changes will complicate the investigator's work, but are we in the citizen's defense, or are we in the defense of "complicate the investigator's work"? Thank you, I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u128	Thank you. From the committee head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Viktor Dmitrovich Schwetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u129	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, Committee on Law Enforcement, reviewed at its meeting the draft law introduced by National MP Mishchenk, registration number 6654. The bill proposes that article 44 KPC of Ukraine be supplemented by new provisions that will allow the defence attorney to be admitted immediately after giving him documents that confirm his authorization, but in any event no later than 24 hours after the date of the arrival of the petitioners' applications for his participation in the case. It is also envisaged that a guardian's admission order, any investigative action, or any other procedural action involving a suspect, accuser or defendant shall not be carried out. The bill also provides for amendments to article 106 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which provides that a complaint of detention has been brought before the court before the authorities about the selection of a precautionary measure, and is being considered by the judge for submission. In addition, it is proposed to amend article 165 with a badge of 2 and 165 with a badge of 3. After reviewing the bill, the committee notes that the proposed amendments to the ban on any investigator, or procedural action involving the suspect, the accused and the procurator's admission to the case may make criminal proceedings more difficult. In addition, such a prohibition is contrary to the requirements of the Criminal Procedure Code for the conduct of investigations in urgent action. In addition, article 44 of the bill has already been amended to include part six. In view of this, changes should also be made to the numbering of chapters in this article. Dear colleagues, the committee has examined.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u130	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u131	I concluded that it should be sent for processing, but only because of such technical problems. If the Supreme Council decides to take a decision on the basis, there will be no reason for the committee not to elaborate this bill and submit it to the Supreme Council on second reading as a bill. We believe that this bill will only strengthen the constitutional guarantees of a person's right to protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u132	Thank you. Who Wants to Take It? I see you're signing up, please. It's a knock-off.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u133	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, it is clear that such changes to the Criminal Procedure Code must be made at least so that we do not have two readings of the Constitution. Article 59 clearly states that everyone has the right to legal aid. And when this legal aid, unfortunately, comes through three days, and from the beginning of the investigation, the suspect already speaks of himself as never before, and could not be invented anywhere, as they say, and contemplated, then it is clear that the qualified legal aid at first sight will not only complicate the investigator's actions, but will stand in the defence of the rights protected by the Constitution of a citizen who will not be subjected to these singa, which sometimes happens to be law enforcement authorities, but will provide conscious evidence. So, to my conviction, any technical warnings can be regulated, but this bill needs to be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u134	Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, we have carefully considered this bill at a faction meeting and have come to that conclusion. Of course, the bill is needed in the state today. Of course, it should be accepted. But with some warnings. The bill will contribute to the implementation of the rights, freedoms and citizens guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine, but changes in the prohibition part of any investigation or other procedural action involving a suspect accused of allowing a defence attorney to take part in the case may significantly complicate the work of the investigator and may lead to an artificial delay in the examination of the material that has led to the selection of a precautionary action in the form of a security deposit. In summary, the MP's Reform for the Future supports this bill in its first reading. We would like this to be, all the troubles that are in this bill have been corrected for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Sergey Grigorovich Mishchenka for raising a very serious subject. Because his bill is complex, and today such complex bills are rarely adopted in the Supreme Council. It is based on part two of article 63 of the Constitution, which gives a suspect, accused, defendant the right to defend himself. This right is what this bill is all about. Because of this, it needs special support, and I want to stress what is currently being written, it's suggested in the project that it should be written that the permission of the protector is issued immediately after the issuance of the documents that confirm its authorization. I think that this record, where in any case not later than 24 hours, is not exactly a constitutional entry, Sergey Grigorovovich. On the contrary, it is urgent. In the event of an inability, we have to make this clear why it is not possible. That's right, but it also needs to be specified and possible when it can't be done. Amendments and additions to part three of article 165, which offers the knowledge body, to the investigating prosecutor if the application is made to select a precautionary measure in the form of an undertaking to hand the suspect or the accused and the defence attorney a copy of the case before the court is considered, are also an opportunity to exercise the right of defence. As a result, I feel that the objections that we have heard today may make the investigator’s work more difficult. The investigator’s task is objectively to establish the truth of the matter, and so is the task of the guardian of the case, in addition to providing legal aid. This law must be passed as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u138	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 6654, amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. [[on the right of the suspect, the accused, the defendant]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:11:37]] For 264 Offer supported. The draft Law on Reparation for the State of Material Damage is being considered for individuals who have suffered a crime. [[Registration number 7303]] There's a short-term proposal, please. [[13:12:11]] For-195 Supported. Please, the author of the bill, Viktor Dmitrovich Schwetz, and he's from the committee. So you have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u139	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I think that this is exactly the kind of bill that needs to be fully considered in the Supreme Council, which is extremely important and applies to the interests of an extremely large number of Ukrainian citizens. On April 8, 2005, Ukraine signed a European convention to compensate victims of violent crimes since November 24, 1983. At present, however, the convention is not ratified in connection with the absence of a law that would implement its position in national legislation. To date, it is the duty of the State to compensate victims of disability, other harm to health, or death as a result of a crime, if the person who committed the crime is not identified or if he is insolvent, provided for in article 1207 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. As noted in the second part of this article, the procedure for compensation to the State is regulated by law, and so is article 1177 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. However, the law on how to compensate victims of deliberate violent crimes to deal with the problem in a comprehensive manner has not been adopted until now in Ukraine. The bill provides for the grounds and conditions and establishes the order and extent of the State’s compensation for the damage to individuals who have suffered criminal attacks on their lives, health or property, as well as the authorities responsible for resolving the matter, and the sources of funding for the claimed compensation. In order to ensure the exact execution of decisions to compensate victims of a crime, the draft law provides for the establishment of a special fund for the victim in Ukraine, which will be formed at the expense of part of the State budget from the payment of government duties and other revenues to the budget related to the activities of the law enforcement authorities and other sources of the State budget. The adoption of this law will provide an opportunity to protect the legitimate interests of thousands of Ukrainian citizens who have suffered crimes, criminal violations of their constitutional rights, and will be a real step towards the establishment of the social and legal state by which our country is defined in the Constitution of Ukraine. The Law Enforcement Committee reviewed the draft law at its meeting and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis. At the same time, the Committee noted that the procedure for the formation of the injured fund in Ukraine was possible not only at the expense of the funds provided for in the draft law, but also from the implementation of the confiscated property and from other sources which the Committee considered to be absolutely correct. Given the noted, distinguished colleagues, I would like to ask you to support this bill. He's absolutely political, he's going to be such a strong link in upholding the constitutional rights of people and especially those affected by criminal acts. If the state cannot provide for the life and health of its citizens and expose crimes, the State is obliged to compensate the person for the damage he has suffered. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u140	Thank you. There is a need to discuss. Please sign up. Dig in, please. After him, Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u141	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, what is also one of the very important aspects or purposes of this law? Often, even when performing duties or other duties, if this is not related to the public service or the presence of law enforcement authorities, there are cases where the whole family is not working and the husband is dead, in fact, without any means of subsistence. And of course, this sometimes leads to extremes in such families when even then certain things arise and become the basis for suicides. Therefore, this law is really important, it is progressive, and, to my conviction, it needs to be maintained. That those who, including those who perform ministerial duties, know that they are also protected by the State, apart from those State bodies that are insured. So my proposal is to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u142	Cowchenko Mikola, Communist faction, Chernobyl is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u143	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the next moment. We've spoken several times, the faction has claimed to be defrauded investors, to be credit unions. You know that one and a half million people have fallen under this, fraud and one and a half million people today are beating the thresholds of local councils, turning to all MPs, but they can't solve the problem. Part of the problem is solved by the bill. If a fund is established, to date, Peter Simonenko is the head of the faction, and I have made a proposal to recognize it as a public debt and, through the budget, to at least cover these costs. I therefore believe that this bill will partially address the fates of those people who have suffered as a result of criminal acts against them. In the end, we will at least calm these people down by adopting the bill on first reading today. On second reading, it will be necessary to work very seriously to ensure that the fraudulent investors are on the list of the people to whom they will pay from the fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u144	Chernobyl Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u145	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The position of the Reformation for the Future faction contains two positions: first, what concerns the very idea of the bill, and second, what is the idea. What about the idea? It's the right idea, it's the right one. Those who have suffered crime should receive adequate compensation. This must be done. Moreover, it is important to ensure that, even when specific criminals are established, not people are usually wrongly aware of legal fines, not those people should seek compensation from the criminal, and the state should take on those functions and contribute to them. But the application of the law we consider to be insufficient. It does not provide for a general function of the role of the State in receiving such compensation from a criminal who is established. And in the case of an unestablished criminal, it is said that the source of compensation is a fund with a minimum of 2 million euros a year. First. Why the euro in Ukrainian legislation raises doubts. The other one. If a minimum sum is set, you have to understand that it's going to be the maximum. The amount of compensation for these crimes will be enormously higher. There is another factor in corruption, to whom to give, to not give, in what way to distribute. Rather than rejecting it, we suggest that we go to work to solve these problems in a more complex way, perhaps taking into account the laws in force rather than the creation of a new one. We support the idea, but its implementation is not enough to vote in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u146	Thank you. I'm making my last warning. If the MPs are supposed to represent a faction, I'll turn off the microphone. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of each of you to the fact that this law is long overdue. And we've been asking questions about that for a long time. I sincerely thank the National Deputies of Sweden, Bebelzo and Malishev for making the decision, the draft decree, and the National Deputy of Sweden for preparing the law. In fact, the law is done well. In fact, it is the implementation of the Constitution of Ukraine, starting with article 3 of this Constitution, which states that the State is responsible to a person for its activities. How does the State respond if it is unable to arrange a search in its proper order? As is appropriate, if she presented the wrong people to the IMF leadership, she put them up, and they can't arrange a search. Then it took six months and there's another mechanism involved -- compensate, then the Prime Minister, then the President will watch, and how this mechanism, the Attorney General, is involved. Moreover, in addition to this article of the Constitution, we are bound by article 27 of the Constitution, which states that it is the duty of the State to protect human life. How was I to explain something in Odessa at the reception yesterday when, in relation to a journalist, a public figure in Odessa, Valery Pesocki, who was hit in broad daylight, he was beaten for engaging in a social activity that was displeased by a party of regions, hit his head and refused to commit a criminal offence? I'm asking, how does that explain something to a person? As a result, everyone has the right to the protection of the State. I see this law has to be passed. There is also a complete picture of the absence of a person who has committed a crime within six months. A attack on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u148	Yuri Anatolyevich, finish, but talk on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u149	I'm done. Dear colleagues, our colleague Alexander Ilashkevich was sitting in this room. You came back to Kuchma's records today. See how he got attacked at the hotel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u150	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, please discuss the matter. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Reparation at the expense of the State for Material Damage to Persons Who Have Suffered Crime. [[Registration number 7303]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:24:56]] Z-71 Scientific expertise suggests that we go back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u151	The factions? Please. The factions for the time being. The Party of the Regions – 2, "The Fatherland" – 36, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 13, Communists – 18, non-factional – 2, "Reforms for the Future" – there is no People's Party – no. Returning to pre-work is a science-expert proposal. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:25:42]] For-99 The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Pension Insurance. [[concerning.dedication of a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner]] [[Registration number 6248]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please identify yourself. [[13:26:18]] For 199 Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Vizyowski, author of the bill. Get ready for Culchin's Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! In fact, you have a bill at your disposal that is absolutely apolitical and refers to an extremely small part of Ukrainian citizens, probably the part of Ukrainian citizens that is now the most difficult. This is, imagine, right after the citizens in Sokali were taken along with Oksana Kotik, who is the mother, who raises the disabled child, and her husband, who is the father of the child, died. Naturally, according to current legislation, the child lost a breadwinner. A mother, under 8 years old, even if a child, God forbid, would be healthy, a mother under 8 years old, is also considered to have lost a caregiver because she only cares for a child after 8 years. Unfortunately, the legislator didn't see it, because, in fact, the very small social class in Ukraine -- that's about 50,000 might be involved in the implementation of this bill, and that's why it's not even budgeted, the Pension Fund will be used for this need, because it's the citizens who are most in need of economic hardship. It is especially difficult for rich people to live when we say that it is difficult for them to live. And so it's only fair that, aside from that category that is already defined by legislation, if a child is under 8 years old, a mother who also lost a husband, and a child who feeds, is appointed as one who has lost a breadwinner to give this pension to a mother who looks after a child with disabilities, because she is still confined to a child. Otherwise, what's going on? The mother gives up the child here, it's in the worst case, on the Internet, specialized, the state on these specialists and on keeping such a child in a few more pay-as-you-go, and that's without the mother's love, clearly, and we're going out in a paradoxical situation. It would be easier, and perhaps more humane, to give money to a child than he does to a boarding school.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u153	Finish up. Thank you. From the Committee of Mikola Georgievich Kulczynski, head of the Committee’s Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u154	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance at its meeting on 6 October 2010. [[on the appointment of a pension in connection with the loss of a caregiver to care for disabled children and disabled persons from childhood]] As already noted, the bill proposes to refer to disabled family members who are entitled to a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner, a non-working husband, a wife, and in the absence of one of the parents, a brother, a sister, a grandfather, a midwife, regardless of age and productivity, if they are busy caring for children with disabilities and children with disabilities from childhood. To date, only those who do not work and care for the child of a deceased breadwinner have the right to a pension in connection with the loss of a caregiver until they reach the age of 8. Without denying the need to increase the social protection of non-working persons who care for children with disabilities and disabled children from childhood, the Committee believes that the treatment of disabled persons with disabilities and the right to a pension due to the loss of a caregiver to family members who care for children with disabilities from childhood 1 and 3 groups should be based on the conclusion of the medical advisory commission that these persons with disabilities need foreign care. The main scientific and expert management, supporting the whole idea of strengthening the social protection of the family of the deceased breadwinner who are not working and caring for disabled children and children with disabilities, made a number of suggestions to the bill. In particular, with regard to more detailed financial and economic justifications for the draft law in accordance with the requirements of article 27, part 2, of the Code of Budget for Ukraine. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons recommends to the Supreme Council a draft Ukrainian law amending the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u155	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u156	on the appointment of pensions in connection with the loss of a breadwinner to persons caring for disabled children and persons with disabilities from childhood as a result of the first reading to be accepted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u157	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up. Vladimir Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u158	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine. ” We support the legislative initiative of our colleague Vladimir Vyzawiski to extend pension insurance because it is the most disadvantaged group. Think about it, for families with children or families who have children with disabilities and who have lost a caregiver understandably that these families, especially in these times, need the attention of the State and all the rest of the pension. Notes that these people already have compensation, but think about it, compensation, which is only 15 percent in the care of the first group of children with disabilities, which is percent of the minimum subsistence minimum, when there is a second group, is ten percent, and when the third group is seven percent. Of course, it's low-cost today, and it's this bill that I think is in the legislative momentum that the President has been talking about, about social security, and about the fact that we should be helping people to feel some kind of concern about the state for their future, the more it's about children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u159	The prokupchuk Yuri, the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Dry is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u160	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. It's a shame, of course, that Victor Dmitrovic's previous draft was not adopted. But that's exactly what I was talking about, including losing and feeding. It is a shame that, in the background of the 21 billion in the crisis year in Ukraine, the rate of homelessness, vagrancy, of all the other negative effects of such activity is increasing. And today's only hope for these people and these children is for the state and only for the state. So even if this bill doesn't count the amount of money that's going to go into that, because now they're going to say again, "justification," we're not going to vote here because there's no article on it and all that. There's just a big need to accept it. As you go out on the street, drive through the streets, stand in each corner again and beg, and the number of criminal acts involved in theft has doubled. People go stealing because they can't survive. So let's do anything for those who really need our help, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u161	Oh, unfortunately, you're wrong, mostly people who live well steal. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, the idea of a bill by a colleague of Vyezovsky was understood by everyone, without a doubt this idea could have been supported if this idea had been written in the wake of a law called "On a mandatory State Pension Insurance". Here's the thing: there's a principle of solidarity insurance, and violating this principle of solidarity can lead to balanced sources. Someone who, and the author of the bill, knows perfectly well that in the Law on mandatory State Pension Insurance, clearly separate sources of pension insurance. Therefore, the author needed to put this question in the hands of a specific one: State budget grants to specific people. Because that's what I'm saying. If he makes changes to this bill, he should know that there is paragraph 14 of the first part of article 11 of the law, where there are clearly written compensatory mechanisms for those who need such assistance. So it would be more right and wiser, and I think we talked about it on the committee, and we're talking about writing clear government budget meth mechanisms, not the pension fund for that kind of category of people. Then it would be real. And that's how we get some kind of reboot and no execution. Dear colleagues, I particularly refer to those who speak, not to the authors, but to those who speak in the debate on social bills: people, if the resource base is not ready, we get the next Children of War Act, we get the law that won't work again. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we spoke to you on the committee. Don't wave your hands if you want. I'll come to you myself. I'll explain what's going on. You made the changes before the bill. Write a normal bill, we'll vote for it. And that's to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u163	Question completed. Now, now, wait, please. Cibenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u164	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! You know, very often we speak so beautifully that we forget what we're talking about. I would like to point out that in this case it is a matter of clarifying the number of persons who are not working. And it's about children with disabilities as well as those with disabilities from childhood. Dear colleagues, is there any doubt that these people should be included in the list of disabled persons? Probably not. And then when we don't want to vote, we start looking for something completely different. That's what I'm talking about, especially the science-expert office writes, generally supporting the draft law, and it's one line, and then two pages says "but." The faction of the Company of Ukraine will vote in favour of this bill because it is essentially social and it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u165	One minute, Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to think about it, including those who now have a minus in the voting line. The Ministry of Social Protection has estimated to you that this law will cost you 5.6 million dollars a month. All of it. But it didn't count that this amount would go down, because there would be an increase in human income and a decrease in the subsidy on that amount. Then it's going to be 2 million, maybe 2.5 million a month. There's nothing to talk about. And now I want to ask you a question. What if a person dumps this disabled child or a disabled person from childhood? At the same time, the state will be funding the internet, and then we'll anticipate it. And the state is more expensive, and it hurts people, and we humiliate people. And let's take the right vote. I address Mr. Ephraim. Give the team a political decision, take on the faction leader, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u167	Find Yuri Anatolyovich, find him. The discussion is over. I put to the vote the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". [[on the terms of the pension due to the loss of a breadwinner]] [[Registration number 6248]] Please vote. [[13:39:42]] Z-87 Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u168	The factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u169	The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 0, Fatherland is 41, People's Self-Defense is 19, Communists are 25, Reforms for the Future is 0, People's Party is 0, non-fractional is 2. There's no such thing as a proposal from the Chief Scientific Expert for further work, please identify yourself. For reprocessing, it's the same thing as re-reading the first reading. [[13:40:24]] For-97 Not supported, rejected. Again, the first and the second are practically the same things. Just once again, it's the committee that works, and the pre-processing is the subject of the legislative initiative. There's already been a vote, and you've spoken, there's no reason to vote. We are considering a draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the retirement of aircrews of civil aviation aircraft. [[Registration number 6688]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[13:41:19]] For-191 Supported. Please, the author of the Legwinenko Bill, Alexei Stepanovitch, prepare for the Kulchinski Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u170	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The bill, which is usually not the solution to any strategic pension problems. It's vital to 520 people, and that's exactly how many pensioners there are today, and that's the problem. At the time of the adoption of the Pension Insurance Act, all members of the aircraft’s crew are determined to calculate the pension according to one system, but for what reasons the masters have left the pension on a general basis. In doing so, it was determined that they too, like all other members of the aircraft’s crew, benefit from early retirement. And this is because Ukraine has signed all the international agreements under which ship leaders are members of the aircraft. It doesn't look like we have the old and the new version of the Air Code, but it's not written in terms of pension insurance. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the leading medical institutions have been recognized as being one of the most harmful professions of the shipmaster's profession. Moreover, in just one position, according to the World Health Organization, the radiation dose given to the same shipmasters exceeds the dose that workers receive at atomic stations, and there are vibrations and other problems. One more thing I'm drawing your attention to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u171	Finish, the bill has been read.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u172	Okay. The following is proposed, the bill proposes to amend Chapter 15 of the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine on the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance and Article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance. The price of the issue is 16 million, but if we increase what these categories are already paying, the employer pays 45.96 percent, not 33.2 percent, and if the physical person who is currently working pays not two percent, but five percent, it is 6 million. If it's economic logic, it's one situation, but I don't think this logic is acceptable here, so I'm asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u173	From the committee, the head of the committee’s committee for veterans and disabled persons, Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u174	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The bill proposes to amend section XV, paragraph 2, of the Act "On general government pension insurance" and article 4 of the Act "On the collection of compulsory state pension insurance" which preserves the order for the calculation of pensions set out in article 53, part three, of the Act on pension insurance for persons flying civil aircraft: pilots, storm pilots, shipbuilders, shipowners, shipmasters, boardmasters, flight attendants and operators who carry out special tasks in flight and extend to civil aviation pilots. And according to this category of workers, a 5 - percent mandatory state pension insurance rate is set for the congregation. And businesses that employ hired on - board workers pay 42 percent of the tax facility. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council is of the opinion that changing the conditions for the definition of pension rights over seniority or setting specific conditions for determining the size of these pensions, perhaps only when the pension is introduced through professional and corporate funds. And it is suggested that the first reading of the bill should be rejected. At the same time, I want to point out that the problem exists and needs an urgent solution. About 7 years have passed since the adoption of the basic Law on National General Pension Insurance, but the pension of individual workers through professional and corporate foundations has not been implemented. Even when it is implemented, it will apply to future young workers. Thus, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, having considered at its meeting on 6 October 2010, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, as a result of the first reading, asks for support as a basis. [[on the pension provision of aircrews of civil aircraft]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u175	Thank you. Vote? Yeah, except for Zibank, Prokopchuk, Dry. Sign up. Cibenka, please. After him, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u176	Thank you, Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, indeed, the problem proposed by the author of the bill exists. And I want to do a little bit of helping, and the drafter said on his way out to the rostrum, "There's no telling why this happened." I know why, because I was in charge of the profile committee at the time. And it came about because the pilots were listed as number one, and the other crew members of the aircraft were not included in the list. And that's why we were forced to consider that the pension issue of the board of directors was regulated, that other crew members should be regulated by law. And that's why it happened. Today they're off list number one, I mean, they're on board, and this is the situation. Dear colleagues, we are absolutely convinced that together, in support of this bill, we are eliminating a certain imbalance in this issue and a certain gap. What a time it was for both the Professional Committee and the Supreme Council to adopt amendments to the Pension Insurance Act. Because it's about, in fact, not a very large number of people, but every person, it's a member of the airship, and it depended a lot on it when it worked, and today it was going to benefit from that level of social protection. So I think we need to solve this problem, we already have a beard. And the faction of the Ukrainian company is going to support this bill, because it's really about solving a problem that is extremely urgent for a particular category of our citizens today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u177	Thank you, Carpuk Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u178	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We support the legislative initiative of the drafter of the bill, and we also agree with the view of the profile committee on the need for a legislative solution to the problem, namely the inclusion of ship leaders in the category that all other flight crew members receive. However, onboard guides have the same loads of ionizing radiation, stress, vibrations, and psychological stress, constantly communicating with passengers. And it's really about a small number, 510 crew leaders, who are now on retirement. And the author of the bill rightly included increasing and modifying the Pension Assembly Act, increasing the percentage to 5 congregations for pension insurance from the board of directors. I also think, on behalf of our group, "Our Ukraine," that we will support this bill for adopting it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u179	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I have asked for the floor because I would like to remind the people of Ukraine of the fifth and fourth vocations, how many years here in this rostrum we have tried to stand up for the promotion of a professional committee, then I think Peter Cibenko, the right to pension insurance for civil aviation personnel, the same pilots. Well, for example, you know where the whole story started. When the committee came to us at one and the other, and at personal receptions, former pensioners began to come to the SAFU, which were the same pilots as the military pilots, and civil aviation was the same. They taught those warplanes to fly, and so on. Thus, a change was made to part three of article 53 of the Pension Insurance Act. I very much ask everyone who discusses this issue, we have two laws: a mandatory government pension insurance and pension insurance. So this is actually about article 53 of the third part of the Pension Insurance Act. Of course, it would be good to have onboard guides on board if it were provided in the body of the bill or in an explanatory note at least an indication of some financial and economic justification. Dear colleagues, this speaks only of one thing. Without pension reform, without the introduction of corporate and professional funds, we can't move the issue. As you can imagine, an increase of 5 percent to the mandatory government pension insurance from the board leaders themselves, when today 31 to 33 percent is funded by a hired employee and only 2 percent by a person for other funds. So it's clear that, again, this law is imperfect, even though the idea is understood and it has, of course, elements of social justice. But in the way that this law is written, it can't be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u181	You're an ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u182	Parliamentary Group Reforms for the Future, People's Authority. We had a serious discussion about this law in the group, and I agree with my colleague, Mr. Suhim, on the basis that, indeed, it would be appropriate to adopt this law in terms of social justice, but there are some contradictions. And in principle, even on the Transport Profile Committee, we discussed this issue, tried to regulate it in the Aviation Code. But there are some warnings. So we're going to vote, our parliamentary group, in the first reading, and I think in the second reading, we still have to work on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u183	Thank you. Discussion. One minute, Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u184	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland." Colonel of the Air Force, just in case. Yes. I want to see the eyes of all our colleagues. All, or the vast majority, used or used air transport when, above all, most of them, beautiful girls who are visiting Ukraine meet, conduct, serve. In fact, they are sometimes beaten, for example, by one of the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Konovalov, who struck the stewardess of Aeroflot. And what I'm saying is, he was confusing the territory because it was Russian territory. I don't know how this employee can even stay, whether it's the face of Ukraine or the face of today's new power. You can't do that. But I'd like to talk to everyone else. There has been a number of accounts of the strains these people are subjected to. It was not said that only one of them was exposed to cosmic radiation, or cosmic radiation, when they were constantly on high altitudes. It's huge.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u185	Thank you, sit down, please. We need to talk about the bill, not read statements from the Internet. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 6688, amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the retirement of persons on aircraft of civil aviation aircraft. Please vote. [[13:55:25]] For 1052 Not supported. The factions. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 43, Our Ukraine - 20, Communists - 25, Reforms for the Future - 11, People's Party - no votes, non-fractional - 3. The bill was rejected. I continue for 15 minutes in the morning. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to improve legislation on the prohibition of gaming in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8024]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. [[13:56:19]] For-189 Supported. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u186	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I suggest that you consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to improve the legislation prohibiting gambling. [[No. 8024]] The purpose of this bill is to remedy violations of the Act on Game Business. That is, we want to remove loopholes in legislation that allow us to bypass the law today. You know, there are examples of violations of the law today everywhere. And this is happening all over the country. The gambling business is no longer hidden, it's out of the underground, and it's passed the law, and it's flourishing again. And the work we did with you turned out to be completely useless. You remember how we voted in this session room for banning the gaming business, voting for the drug of gambling to stop destroying Ukraine. At the same time, we agreed that before the adoption of special laws, the gambling business in any form in our country must be eliminated. You also remember that we have amended the legislation banning gambling, but unfortunately, there are different institutions throughout the country, and the violators are bypassing the law. I think you'll agree with me that the law doesn't go away because we made this law good, but because it allows legislation to find loopholes by bypassing this law. Therefore, the so-called interactive institutions, which today offer computer stimulants and Internet access to participate in virtual gambling, have remained without regard to the law. The trick is that a server with these games can be located anywhere in the world. And participation in virtual gambling allows a player to receive points or points that are then converted into national currency or credited to electronic accounts. Such actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u187	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u188	Two more minutes like the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u189	Natalia Juryovna, finish, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u190	Such actions are nothing but a violation of existing legislation prohibiting gambling. The law proposes to amend the Police Act and to include in the duty of the police to bring an action before the court, to impose financial sanctions on gambling operators. Also change the term “igorna business” and “a gambling game” so that the law applies to interactive facilities and computer stimulants. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council supports the bill. The Committee requests support for the bill. In conclusion, I would like to recall the words of the classic that “a legislator who is unable to close loopholes in the law will eventually become an accomplice to the crime.” Dear colleagues! Let us now test whether there are really accomplices to the crime and those who support interactive casinos and those who support today's illegal legal gambling business in the country, or whether you and I really want to combat the scourge that has plagued our society today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u191	Thank you. Who is this classic? Yes. Shall we vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 8024 on amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving the legislation on the prohibition of gaming in Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:00:34]] For 289 Thank you. The bill was passed. [[B in m in s a l in]] I went on for 15 minutes! Dear colleagues! I have a request from you to support my offer. In view of the fact that the Minister of Justice is busy on the international line of communication after lunch, if we now consider a bill on amending some Ukrainian legislation on migration with the President's proposals, which is reported by the Minister of Justice. [[Registration number 2232]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please vote. [[14:01:29]] For-200 Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u192	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine took advantage of his right and proposed to the Supreme Council of the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Migration in view of the fact that three components relating to amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Basic Law have been amended, which do not fully comply with other valid rules, including the Criminal Code. And what's relevant to the Code of Administrative Violations is not always the presupposed sanction, which is the measure of misconduct. For example, when it comes to punishment for not arriving on time at the educational institution of those who have entered the school visas and who have not arrived on time, there is no possibility that a person might get sick at that time, or other force majeure conditions may happen, so it is proposed that these penalties be applied only when there are no such important reasons. As for other penalties, such as the transport of illegal migrants in Ukraine, it provides for punishments that cannot be linked to another type of punishment, especially when it comes to the punishment of drivers who are to be deprived of their right to drive. This is another part of the decision for other offenses. This is also true of the other positions you have on your hands, and I hope you will support the President's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u193	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, from the committee of Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilovich, head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u194	Dear Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, is a long - suffering bill by colleague Gregory Smytheuch and for which I am evidently speaking today or not in the fourth. Frankly, when we heard that the president, well, vetoed this bill, we were very, very confused at first. But when we read the president's remarks, we unanimously, virtually, came to the conclusion on the committee that all of these observations were reasonable and correct. You can divide them into two parts. The first part, I actually think, is the Ministry of Justice, and not personally the President of Ukraine himself, has cleaned up some of, well, such legal flaws, descriptions of some that may have been to be done by the Chief Legal Authority. This job is done well. And secondly, it turns out that Gregory Smythech, when he was making his proposals, was stacking up, he was too much, I'd say so, figuratively speaking, he was already very angry. And he proposed in the Criminal Code, in the Administrative Code such proposals that are very strong and very strong. And the second half of the President’s proposals and remarks are designed to soften them. Our committee unanimously recommended acceptance of everyone without exception of the President's proposal in the form in which he introduced it. So I would just like to vote them out, to support the President's proposals and the position of our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-05-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as you understand from the committee's report, the committee took into account all the president's comments. So I'm voting on the proposal. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on migration with proposals from the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2232]] Please vote. [[2:06:21]] For 301 The law has been passed. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
