ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:31]] Cards were registered in the 356 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Mr. Berezkin Stanislav Semenović and Mr. Geller Eugène Borisovich. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them good health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 11 May 2011. 17 issues of the agenda have been considered: 1 bill has been adopted on a basis, 11 bills and 4 draft regulations have been rejected. If I don't remember, one of the draft decrees is included in the agenda -- the celebration of the 70th anniversary of Bogdan Kotorovich's birthday, right? There was one draft decision I took for it. They've put it in order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u2	And the law was passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the issues set out in the schedule on Thursday, May 12. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to take a decision in accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the Elimination of Disagreements in the Text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on the Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption in Ukraine. For that matter, Ruslan Knyazevich? Please, microphone, Ruslan Knazevitch. And then I'll ask the report to make Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u4	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would very much ask that we have a full discussion of this issue, because it's not really a passing technical question. There are a number of things that change to some extent the philosophy of the changes we have adopted during our second reading. The primary concern is those in the fields of education, science, culture, and health care. Remember, we fought so long that these people did not become extreme in the fight against corruption, and now it happens that, unfortunately, to some extent they get completely undeservingly hit. So I would very much ask you, there is only a question, in part, about subordination, and with regard to the other issues that we have insisted on, it remains open, unfortunately. I'm afraid this could be a very serious subject of speculation from the authorities who will fight among the workers of culture and education against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u5	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, please. Since Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk was in charge of this issue at the Supreme Council, I would like to make the information and then we will be determined. And, Adam Ivanovich, if possible, immediately to the remarks of Ruslan Kniezewicz. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We make a serious decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, we need to make this article according to 131, and you will remember that when we gave the task and a professional committee before the law was voted on in general, and the Chief Legal Authority, when it was necessary to edit and prepare, if necessary, a clarification, in accordance with 131 articles, so that we could agree with you here. A professional committee, along with the Chief Legal Authority, prepared these proposals, prepared these proposals. We have reason to support them. Once again, we can go back to what he is proposing, to the problem that our colleague Knazevitch is focusing on, let's be clear. But right now, I would like you to be careful that we answer the, finally, two questions that concern the declaration. First of all, what the committee supported yesterday is that when we voted, at first we were spending what we had on private property. Then we voted that we should also add the property that is in the lease. So it's suggested that in the declaration, there should be a separate cost of property in the declaration, which is private property, and a separate graph is the cost of the property that is in the lease. The committee agreed. I think we also have reason to vote that way. And the most basic question about 11 notes of the declaration is 11 notes of the declaration. I remind you that when you and I spoke about the amount that we paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u7	No, she's 11th now. Now she's 11th. In the materials you received from the committee, I'll take a look. Now she's 11th. On page 10 of the 11th Amendment, which refers to the amount of expenses. When we voted with you in the amount of expenses, I called it by memory that 50,000, referring to what is in the Fathom law. And we voted the sum that's in the law. I'll read you the 15th article of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization of Laundering. The 15th article “Financial transactions that are subject to mandatory financial monitoring” states: "The financial operation is subject to mandatory financial monitoring if the amount for which it is carried out is equal to or greater than 150,000 dollars. And we voted for it. So what I'm suggesting right now is that 11 notes say exactly this amount, which is equal to or greater than 150,000 dollars. And another clarification in 11 graphs to make it clear when this sum is recorded. In the reporting year. If we're filling in for 2012, that was 11 years old. And so on. During the reporting year, this sum is filled in to make it clear. Thus, 11 footnotes will read: “The value of the spending of money on property, rent or other rights of use in items 23, 28, 35, 39 and all in items 46, 48, 50, 56 and 59 shall be filled if the cost, contribution, contribution for each of the indicated positions in the reporting year is equal to or greater than 150,000 dollars”. The committee determined a different amount. But this is a committee matter. We voted with you as I quoted article 15 of the law, the Fatfian known law. That's how we can vote. Now, please, Ruslan, I'm the Prince's microphone to make us.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u8	Ruslana Knazevicha microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u9	If, Adam Ivanovich, if you agree with your logic and accept that Parliament's decision was just like you say, then paragraph 5 should be deleted "Definition of Mid-Moon Income". Because in that project that the committee gives, that's exactly the basis for the cost. And man, now there's going to be another cost. And the average monthly income he has to figure out for himself. If he misjudges him, it's subject to sanctions. Well, that makes sense. Then we must go to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u10	Ruslan, I don't see, on the other hand, it's going to be clear that if you read 5 points that you have an average monthly income of 20,000 or 2,000, and in other chapters where 150,000 says you've bought 150,000, it's clear to the examiner right now that your income is 2,000, and you've spent 150. I don't think there's a problem here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u11	Prince Ruslan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u12	I wanted to. The thing is, the average monthly income came up completely by accident. It's in the Law on the Status of Judges, and it's now being implemented in accordance with this law. In case we're changing this kind of approach right now, we're changing the philosophy of how to estimate expenditure in general. Given these circumstances, we're going to have to automatically change another law, first of all the Law on the Status of Judges, that's in this part. But if you don't mind, I'd like to make other comments. Or another time? Can you be more comfortable now? I'm just on average wage. I'm saying once again, it's a valid rule of the Law on the Status of Judges. If we are now introducing another special sum, then we are violating this philosophy of laws that are already in force. We need to, well, somehow change those laws, even though people are already doing them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u13	So let's ask a question. And we agree with the relevant international standards, so let's move on in the same direction. That's why it's an offer. I see, Sergey Mishchenko. Now let's vote on what's being prepared by the committee and what Adam Ivanovich said and then we'll take a separate look at the proposal. One minute, one more. Don't get hot for one minute. And then let's figure out another question. Sergei Mishchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u14	Vladimir Mikhailovich, Adam Ivanovich, well, it's not possible to vote right now, because I've raised a transcript and that may be the basis, it will serve to make a difference to this law in general. I would like to remind you that the committee's ruling on the amount of corruption expenditure and family members was what Knazevitch said, the average monthly income. But the transcript says that Adam Ivanovich said 50,000, not 150, but 50, and the parliament voted 50,000. Why is 150 now, and the question arises? How will the transcript be altered? Will It Be a Reason for Change?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u15	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I suggest we stop the groundless discussion. I'm just reminding you what we voted about in the session room at the time, and we discussed this in detail. That's the first one. The other one. In view of the fact that the committee, unfortunately, did not put the amount in the declaration, I stressed the amount to be recorded by referring to the 15th article of the Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization of Laundering of Proceeds by Crime, what Fatf requires of us. And we had a discussion with you when we voted. I just remembered what number we were voting for back then.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I put to the vote a decision on the clarification and elimination of disagreements in the Prevention and Anti-Corruption Act, taking into account the proposals made by the committee and the clarifications made by Adam Ivanovich. Please vote. [[10:12:42]] For 253 Copy that. Ruslan Knyazevich, please, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u17	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in fact, there is something far more important here than the form of a declaration. Remember, at Adam Ivanovich's proposal, which was perfectly correct and supported by all the factions of Parliament, we sent a special second reading of article 1 of the law, where we instructed the committee to define the term "persons of legal persons of public law". Then, with the efforts of virtually all factions, we found a compromise, and this definition got a corresponding expression in the law. What was the purpose of that definition? In order to get people out of this law who don't have any corruption in their work. These include education, science, culture, health, physical culture, and sports. But now it is proposed to go back to that, delete that definition, and it will not be at all, instead the removal of those persons will only apply to the 9th article of the Law of Subordination concerning loved ones. At the same time, I would like to remind you that there are already public figures, more specifically the officials of the legal persons of the public.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u18	Please make a proposal, I'll put it to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u19	During the second reading, they were removed from the 11th article, and they were only left in the 12th, so I propose the words of sub-paragraph "a" in paragraph 2 delete from part one, part five of article 12, because there should not be any reference to these people. This applies to government officials, the declaration and publication of their income. The head of the country club should not declare his income and give it to himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u20	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! I remind you, I remind you that when we talked about this language, really, you're right that we wrote it down, but I think that what I've prepared is more logical now for the Committee and for the Chief Legal Authority. We preserved the point that, in fact, those who work in the fields of education, science, health, physical culture, and sports, they don't belong in the service, but what we said about the declaration was that the declarations were being filled out. That is, declarations are filled by all, including this category, but they are not subject to service.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on Ruslan Knazevitch's proposal. By voting, we'll define everything. Please. [[10:15:38]] For-38 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote for adoption, as a whole, in accordance with article 131 of the Rules of the Law on the Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption. Please vote. [[10:16:05]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! The factions, please. Region Party – 175, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-factional – 6. Dear colleagues, yesterday after. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, yesterday we held meetings of the Conciliation Council on the proposal of two factions (the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" and the faction "BUT – Fatherland") on the issue of information from the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the circumstances of detention under the watch of former Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Yuri Lucenka. Since we did not make the final decision during the Conciliation Council, I was asked to consult the factions in order to reach an acceptable decision. As a result of the consultations, the reconciliation of positions I put to the vote a draft decision. Please listen carefully, dear fellows! Oh. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on information from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the conditions of detention of former Minister of Interior of Ukraine Lucenk Yuri. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: On Friday, May 13, 2011, at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine informed the former Minister of the Interior of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenka. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. I place this motion on the vote and ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support it. [[10:18:29]] For 354 It's working. Dear colleagues, we have made our decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please. If anyone thinks that the button didn't work, the statement will be added to the transcript. I'm asking you to check it out. The complaint is on the right and on the left that something is missing. But we made decisions, dear colleagues. Please take this as normal. Let's take a minute from the factions about the further procedure of our work. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Next up is the "BOUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u23	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, two questions. The first question is, we just accepted 19 anonymous amendments with you in the morning. I emphasize that the Constitution states that the subject of submission is either a national deputy, or a prime minister, or a president, or a head of the National Bank. We accepted an anonymous amendment with you, 19 grand. It's up to such a serious law as "On Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption." That is, the practice of lawmaking, which is currently taking place, is in grave violation not only of the Rules but also of the Constitution of Ukraine. The other one. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I thank you for being able to take a decision on the question of Lucenka. But it would obviously not be complete if we did not listen to the Human Rights Commissioner, Nina John Carpathian. I suggest you invite her, too. She had the right to report; she asked the question not to allow destruction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u24	Thank you. Please, Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, I also thank all those who voted to hear about Yuri Lucenka's health, but at the same time I support absolutely Carmazin, who should be here, Nina Ivanovna Karpachov, who had it. On the other hand, will the MPs be able to ask questions? From what we've accepted, it looks like we're not going to be able to ask a question. And that means that the DA's office is so much more pionarian, it's all good, it's nothing to worry about. And the scary thing is, a person dies completely, a person is tortured, he's already lost 20 kilograms of weight, he's got second-degree diabetes. Well, it's impossible, people are being killed in front of us for political reasons, and we won't even be able to ask a question. It'll only be pioneric. And so I would very much ask, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, to foresee the opportunity for MPs to ask questions, not to say that "it's all good, beautiful Marquis."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u26	Please, no more wanters? Dear colleagues, we provide information on this issue: we have reached a compromise, and the results of this compromise have been demonstrated as a result of the vote, regardless of what the MPs have said that a number of cards have not worked. 354 votes. So let's move on in this and in all other ways step by step. We've reached a compromise, we've made a decision if other proposals -- we're going to have a dialogue with factions. And according to the procedure for hearing information, your honorary colleagues, it is defined by article 240, information-question, and discussion only if it is taken separately, that decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this matter. So we're gonna be okay. So I would ask you not to insist on this problem, let's move forward. Dear colleagues, we must now include in the order of the day a series of drafts. I would like to be careful with the suggestions, especially since we have a lot of work to do on Thursday. Draft Act on the Number of Armed Forces of Ukraine for 2011. [[Registration number 8444]] For inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[10:23:28]] For 257 Decision taken. Draft Act approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2011 to participate in multinational military training. [[Registration number 8440]] I'm betting on a vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:24:10]] For 266 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on national commissions that regulate natural monopolies, in the area of communication and information, securities markets and financial services. [[8403]] Please vote. [[10:24:47]] For 240 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. [[on the identification of the State Agency for Investments and the management of national projects as the main cost manager]] [[Registration number 8466]] Please vote. [[10:25:27]] For 248 Decision taken. I am voting for a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on the Financial Recovery of the State Enterprise "Production Union of the Southern Machinery Factory named O.M. Macarova." [[Registration number 8425]] Please vote. [[10:25:59]] For 293 Decision taken. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 1, the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, please vote. [[for Multi-Children]] [[Registration number 8314]] [[10:26:29]] For 293 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include the draft Law on the Announcement of Natural Areas of the City of Hmilnik of the Vinnitsk Region as a resort of State importance. Registration number 8271. Please vote. [[10:26:59]] For 304 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[on the Personal Voting of Ukrainian People's Deputies in Plenary Meetings]] Projects 8262, 8262-1, 8262-2, please identify. Please vote. [[10:27:40]] For-164 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party 9, "BUT – Fatherland" – 59, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 34, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 10, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 7. I'm betting on a motion to include the bill in the agenda. In the end, let's go through this one. One minute. Draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and Other Legislative Acts of Ukraine. Registration number 8130, 8130-1. There's a vote coming. [[10:28:34]] For the 250. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Law on certain issues of debt for natural gas consumption and electricity consumption. [[Registration number 8351]] Please vote. [[10:29:02]] For 249 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine. [[on taxation of natural gas and electricity]] [[Registration number 8352]] Please vote. [[10:29:33]] For 249 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. [[Registration number 8361]] Please vote. [[10:30:01]] For 285 Decision taken. Sergei Sasa's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think you have been unfairly put to the vote in favour of introducing drafts into the order of the day 8261 and 8262. Because in this case it is necessary to include in the agenda the basic bill you tabled on personal voting. Everyone else is alternative, they're not allowed to be included, they're automatically included in the agenda. Therefore, I propose that I return to this vote and put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of your bill on personal voting. [[No.8262]] And please put this motion to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Sergey Sass has drawn the attention of the presiding officer, i.e. me, to the fact that I had to put to the vote only one Bill 8262, the author of which is me. And if they are included, if a positive decision is made, then other bills will be regarded as alternatives. That's why, dear colleagues, I'm going to put a motion to the vote. May I have your attention, please? I'm betting on the vote to go back to the subject, and you'll figure it out. If we go back, we'll look at it. Go back to the study. Well, that's exactly what I'm saying, as Sergei Sass suggested. There's a vote coming. Please vote. [[10:32:11]] For 139 We're not back. That's too bad. But we will return to this question until we accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to a second-reading draft. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on joint activity is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Voropeyev. Reporter. Yeah, who's gonna report from the committee? Yeah, Voropeyev. Dear colleagues, while the reporter is coming, I'm addressing the committee heads for the bills that we've just included in the agenda. Many have already been prepared for consideration at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I would ask the committees once again to take a closer look at these bills so that those who are ready will have the opportunity to consider at the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and those who cannot wait. Thank you for your understanding. Yes, please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u29	Bill 5328 is considered by the Committee, the table is approved, it is distributed to you. So most of the amendments are made here. There are some amendments that have been rejected. I suggest you go on the table and discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, the amendment of Sphen's 3rd. Does a colleague insist on it? No, it's not. Sphinx, 5th. No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, 6th Amendment. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u31	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, at 6th Amendment, I propose that you complete part of article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property, paragraph 17. This content is: "Approves the default joint venture agreement, which is a party to state enterprises, institutions and organizations. And also businesses that have at least 50 percent of the state's share in the statutory fund." To complement also sub-items "L" and "M" and continue to suggest content. It says "refused." I didn't see the reason why it was rejected. Because this is about a serious law and the fact that governance of state property is not actually being carried out in the state, and as a result they are bankrupt and so on, I would like to hear why it was rejected at first and then asked questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u32	It's the 5th amendment, not the 6th. Note the difference between the proposal made by the committee in the table and the proposal made by our colleague. The Committee says that a State has the right to intervene and approve a model contract only if it controls the enterprise if it has a share of more than 50 per cent. The Colleague proposes that this percentage be reduced by less than 50 per cent. That is, if he writes that this right of the State appears when the proportion of the State is equal to 50 per cent. That's not right. Control's done, there won't be a State. The Committee therefore proposes to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u33	I'm voting on Yuri Carmazin's 6th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u34	It's the 5th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u35	No, that's 5-a, that's Sphen's. No, no, the 6th amendment is Sphen's, where it's paragraph 17 with the "1" badge. And Amendment 6 of Carmazin is about to. I'm putting Yuri Carmazin's amendment to the vote. [[10:37:14]] For the four of us. Correction not accepted. Well, 7 is the same thing. Yuri Anatolyevich, will you insist on her? Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u36	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you that in any case, the state has to control its property. Look what happened now to the property of our state in the oil refineries, around where it was, how it was washed away, and then what it did. What happened to Crucifixion? With everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u37	Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u38	As a result, I propose to complete article 5, paragraph 18, of the Act on the Management of Subjects of State Property, sub-paragraph "L" of the following content: "Conclusion by State Enterprises, Institutions, Organizations, and Economic Associations in the Charter Fund, whose share of the State is not less than 50 per cent, in a joint operation agreement, commission contracts, assignment and property management." I think I'm offering absolutely everything logically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u39	Well, it's the same thing. I'm going to put the vote again to see if there's any support in the session room. Vote 7 of Yuri Karmazin. [[10:38:38]] For -14 Correction not supported. There is no point then in voting on all the following amendments by Yuri Karmazin, because they relate to the same topic – at least 50 percent in state ownership. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich, your closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u40	The Committee proposes that the bill be approved and adopted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second reading and generally a law. The main legal authority for this bill has a number of observations that are not actually supported by the committee. So I'm voting on a second reading proposal and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u42	Take down the vote. What's the 14th Amendment? Take down the vote. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich, 14th Amendment, insists. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u43	Yuri Carmazin. If you had considered Carmazin’s amendments, there would probably have been no legal comment. And you already see it by the previous law, by other laws. So I propose article 13 after part one to complete this new part of 1.1. The cost of a joint venture involving a state enterprise, an institution or an organization is determined on the basis of an independent assessment of the application of the valuation database approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, which corresponds to the market value required by the law on the valuation of property. When making joint venture agreements, the size of a share of state enterprises, institutions, organizations, as well as companies with at least 50 percent of the total share of the State’s statutory fund should be more than 50 percent of the total share of the joint ventures, but not less than the size of the share of the State’s enterprises. institutions, organizations and these farm societies. Otherwise, the interests of the State and the size may be violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u44	Yes, please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u45	With regard to the first part of the amendment proposed by our colleagues. The value of the valuation of property to be privatized is already regulated by law and is referred to in the draft law. I mean, it doesn't have to be a new law. There are evaluators. They are determined by the Housing Fund, there their procedure. Therefore, Mr. Karmazin's amendment, in this case, is being made, in conflict with another Ukrainian law, which regulates the matter. With regard to the second part of Mr. Carmazin's amendment, well, we have already voted, decided that no less than 50 per cent or more than 50 per cent. It's like I'm giving an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! Amendment 14 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[10:42:10]] For the 18th. Correction not supported. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on joint activity. [[Registration number 5328]] Please vote. [[10:42:44]] For 279 The law is passed. I am introducing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on clinical trials of medical devices, the Rapporteur, the head of the Committee on Health Affairs, Yuri Alexanderovich Haydaev. [[Registration number 7054]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u47	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Masterful colleagues! The draft adopted in the first reading was based on December 3, 2010. The goal of the bill. The bill aims to improve the order of clinical trials involving minors and minors, as well as with limited efficiency and incapacitated persons. It takes into account the norms and rules used in international practice. The essence of it. The proposed changes are proposed to allow clinical trials of medical devices involving young, underage children with significant limitations. To be carried out only when a medical device is used to treat children’s diseases. Only conduct them after full clinical trials in adults and only when their parents have written consent. Clinical trials involving minors and minors who do not have parents are prohibited. Clinical trials of medical devices involving persons who are found to be incapacitated by a court may be conducted only in cases where a medical device designed to treat mental illness, provided that the benefit of the possible success of the tests is justified by the risk of serious consequences for the health or life of the person and the written consent of their caregivers. The bill also proposes to expand the list of bases where clinical trials can be conducted that will be determined by the Ministry of Health. Article 281 of the Ukrainian Civil Code proposes to impose a responsible rule that clinical trials of medical devices are carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. We take into account the editorial regulations of the judiciary. The bill is designed by the legal authorities without notice. The committee supports a bill that has been drafted before the second reading and requests that it be adopted as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u48	Thank you, too. Vladimir Karpuk insists on his amendment? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, the conclusion of the committee is related to the conclusion of the General Legal Authority, which is positive. So I'm voting on a second reading proposal and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on clinical trials of medical devices. [[Registration number 7054]] Please vote. [[10:46:10]] For 258. The law is passed. Thank you. I am announcing before the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting. [[on the improvement of the protection of certain species of animals introduced into the 1979 Convention on the Protection of Wildlife and Wildlife and Natural Environments in Europe]] The Deputy Committee will report on environmental policy, environmental management, and the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Well, then, dear colleagues, I'll let you know. I'm asking the secretariat to keep an eye on the presence. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. The main legal administration of the comments for the second reading of the bill does not have. Then why don't we put it to a vote? I'm voting on the second reading proposal and, as a whole, as a bill of the bill, registration number 4628. [[10:47:37]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Suggestion: To re-read, send a bill. Please support this proposal. [[10:48:02]] For-79 The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to simplify the procedures for the cessation of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs. The reporter is Natalia Kraljevska. At the same time, there is a letter from the committee to move the matter forward. That's why I'm putting a proposal to the vote. I'll read you a letter from the committee head. "The committee reports that the draft law is currently being prepared and submitted for consideration at the plenary session, but due to the urgent need to clarify certain provisions, please return it to the committee." So we have to get the committee back to work then. Then I put to the vote the proposal to send the bill for re-reading. [[Registration number 8295]] Please vote. At the same time, I draw the attention of the committee to the need for a more responsible approach to drafting drafts, yes, with a mandatory presence in the session room. [[10:49:29]] For 253 Decision taken. I'm announcing a draft Act amending the Animal World Act of Ukraine. [[on strengthening efforts to combat poaching]] Anatoly Seminoga, head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u49	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft Act amending the Animal World Act of Ukraine is proposed. [[Registration number 6452-1]] The purpose of the bill is to urgently prohibit the manufacture, sale and use of poaching tools, as well as the prohibition of imports into Ukraine of traps, synthetic nets, electrical devices used solely for poaching purposes. The draft law proposes to be supplemented by a new article 52-1, "Prohibited tools for acquiring animal world objects", and article 53, to supplement the rules on the prohibition of imports into Ukraine of synthetic nets, electroconductors and traps. In addition to the second reading, all the comments and suggestions of the National Deputies were considered, as well as the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, left the bill unattended. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill on second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, which of the authors of the amendments insists? Please. 8th. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin. The 8th amendment relates to my proposal to delete part 4 of article 53, which states: "the list of instruments in part 2 of this article for the acquisition of animal world objects and the order of their destruction is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" – the end of the quote – as it duplicates the text of the standard in part 2 of article 52-1. Furthermore, in accordance with article 379, part 2, of the master code of Ukraine and section 3 of article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity, the list of goods, works and services prohibited from export and import is determined by law. I emphasize, by law, not by government, not by anyone else. Thank you. Please support this proposal. Apparently she was or didn't understand, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u52	Please, Anatoly Ivanovich, your comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u53	The amendment was rejected, given that this bill does not fully regulate those norms, and we have left the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to regulate by its regulations those provisions of the law that are not taken into account and are not drafted by this bill. This, in our view, is a normal practice that practically allows the Cabinet of Ministers to regulate their sub-legislative acts to address this issue. The committee rejected the amendment. If the MPs support her, she'll be counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, be careful. I propose to support the amendment made by my colleague Karmazin, whose point is that we raise the issues that are set out in the Code of Lords to regulate the laws, to consider the Cabinet of Ministers, that is, the regulations and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. It would be better and better for the Supreme Council to do so, as defined by the Master Code. I'm putting the vote to the 8th amendment of colleague Karmazin and I'm asking her to support it. Vote. [[10:53:30.]] For 279 Correction supported. Thank you. 3rd Amendment. Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, we've been having productive discussions with the government for several months. And my majority of the amendments to the law that we made with our colleagues, Danilenko, Horoshevich, Seminog, Tomenko, are counted. But for insurance, Ivanovich and I had a discussion, and we'll take into account MinAPC's position so that we don't have any differences with the government. Let's add it to the text about catch nets in parentheses other than industrial fishing. There's a warning from our colleagues that this might affect the MinAPC economy in part of industrial fishing. I think if we add that word "except industrial fishing," it's like we're going to compromise with MinAPC, but most importantly, we're going to take a serious step in order with poaching. Today I remind you, my friends, that according to our experts, we have fish, industrial fish, official fish, 200,000 tons, and poachers, 197,000 tons, practically industrial fish. So I would like to include these three words and vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u56	Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u57	The committee agrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I offer to accept this amendment. Where individually we ban; where it goes for industrial fishing, that is, on a national level, it is permitted. Please support this amendment. Vote. [[10:55:31]] For 282 Thank you. Supported. So, we've supported the smart one with all of you. I'm voting on a second reading proposal and the whole Act on Amendments to the Animal World Act. [[on strengthening efforts to combat poaching]] [[Registration number 6458-1]] Please vote. [[10:56:08]] For 284 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the number of members of a limited liability society]] [[Registration number 2059]] [[second reading]] Deputy Head of Economic Policy Committee Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law has already been considered once and sent to the Committee for further work. The bottom line is this. The Community Act was amended in 2007 to limit the maximum number of members of society with a limited liability of 10 to 10. And they gave a deadline for all societies with limited responsibilities to bring their participants to this maximum table, up to ten people, without thinking that we have a huge number of farmers who have turned into farmers, into OOska, with this number of people -- 100, 200, 300 people, and so on. And the question was, what do we do with them? They can't. What are they supposed to do, banish all of their participants? And by law, it was granted the right to eliminate such enterprises, such as OOSki, which did not bring the number of participants to this maximum plan, 10 people. And it was then that we, the authors of the bill, came up with a proposal to raise that amount to a hundred people. Why a hundred people, not 50, 12? When we go to the table, you'll see that there were different proposals from different deputies. After that, there are also 100 people, 100 people, 100 people, in private stockholder societies, as they are called. That ZAO, that OO is the legal nature of these societies the same. That's where they're closed, that's where they have the preferred share or share. Therefore, 100 people were proposed. However, given that the time frame for the entry into force of the Act had been omitted and the alignment of Osék with this maximum plan had been omitted so as not to create a problem for people in order to enable them to transform and bring their statutory activities into line with the new law, the bill proposed that they be extended until 1 January 2012. That's the whole point of the law. And in terms of the table, it's comparable. Unfortunately, the main mass of amendments has been rejected. I'm ready to go and report for each of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u60	We're going after the repairs. 1st, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin. I absolutely share the ideology of the bill. At the same time, I propose in paragraph 2 of article 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Associations that 100 be replaced by 12. And, without fear of being a retrograde, I'm going to justify it. This is how it should be written: "The maximum number of members of a limited society can reach 12 persons. The limitations on the number of participants are explained by the need to ensure closer personal relationships between members of a limited liability society than, for example, between shareholders in shareholders. In connection with the granting of limited liability to members of the Society the right to exclude a member from the Society and the right to consent to transfer a portion to the statutory capital of the heir or successor. The number of members of a limited liability society should not be too large to ensure its effective operation." That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u62	An explanation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u63	You realize that if there were a maximum of 10 people and a proposal to make only 12 people, it would not solve the problem. If in the village, for example, there are 100, there are 70 families and there are 500-700 people in general, they can give their pies to one family member, but add only two people – this does not solve the problem in general, therefore.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u64	There's Karmazin's first amendment to the vote, please. [[11:01:06]] For-16 Not supported. The second amendment, Krutz, does not insist. It's amazing, it's third. Don't insist. Carmazine, fourth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u65	Yuri Carmazin. I propose to exclude from the draft law a new paragraph two, paragraph two, of chapter III of the Final Order of the Law of Ukraine on Amendments and Recognition in such a way that certain legislative acts of Ukraine have been lost in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine. The quote is "a limited liability society that was created before this law became effective is obliged to bring its statutes into force as part of the maximum number of members of a limited liability society in accordance with this law, within a period of time until 1 January 2011". Since no changes can be made to laws, changes to other laws, as well as the release of a back - number liability, the more the date in the comparative table stands on the basis of the date of 1/07.2010 is to be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u66	There's a fourth amendment to the vote, please be determined. [[11:02:39]] For the 10th. Not supported. Seventh Amendment, Carmagina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u67	Thus, the seventh amendment, George Carmazin, I propose to exclude from the draft law the new paragraph three, chapter III, of the Final Order of the Law of Ukraine on Amendments and Recognition in such a way that certain legislative acts of Ukraine have become invalid in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine. It's only written down, there's no justification, so I think that this amendment has to be taken into account because the limited liability companies that have been converted into equity societies go to the equity society and all the rights and obligations of a limited liability society, the size of the statutory capital, the shareholding, created as a result of the transformation, are going to be equal to the size of the statutory capital of a society that becomes an equity society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u68	The 7th Amendment shall be voted on. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:04:03]] For-13. Not supported. All the other amendments we've been through. At the last amendment, by 8, she's accounted for. Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u69	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." Dear reporter, Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, please pay attention to the contents of this amendment. It says that those societies that are now more than 100 of their participants should be brought into line by January 1, 2012, but today the 10th standard is in effect. Thus, today, there is no legal way to have a society with more than 100 participants, which is the legal burden of this standard. I believe that this rule is empty by its legal content and therefore is not necessary in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u70	Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u71	I would like to remind you once again that the previous law, which is now in force, determines the maximum ten-person plan, states that if before, if I am not mistaken, by 1 July 2007, society does not bring its number of participants into line with this plan 10, they are to be eliminated. Wait a second. Therefore, in this case, I have proposed an amendment that the period within which a limited-liability society will bring its number into line should be extended until 1 January 2012 so that it has the time to do so. Otherwise, tomorrow they can just be eliminated. By the way, the recommendation for this rule to be in the End Positions is an expert management proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u72	Yes, Yuri Mikolaiovich, would you please say a hundred is a minimum or a maximum?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u73	One hundred is the maximum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u74	One hundred, tops. So the societies that now have 10, 12, 13, 15 and 20 have less than 100. I mean, you don't need them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u75	And you don't have to do anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u76	They're just the ones who've gone over a hundred.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u77	A percentage.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u78	But they're illegal, they say. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u79	Since 2007, it has been true that some 14,000 different OOs have not brought their number of participants to this plan 10. And it turns out they're illegal, they can be eliminated at any time, but they're farmers, they're coworkers who used to be. We must enable them to produce their statutes in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u80	It's all clear. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u81	And that's what it's for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u82	We're done talking. I'm voting on the 8th amendment. No, you can't. Well, to change, we'll be constantly. It's such a thing, the hall will determine now. I put to the vote the amendment of the national MP Voropeyeva this for the purpose of taking into account the validity of the law that is considered by the committee, but my colleague Klukkowski insists on its confirmation. So please support the committee's decision. Vote. Vote. [[11:08:03]] For 233 Supported. I put to the vote the proposal of a profile committee, a profile committee on adoption in second reading and the whole Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws. [[Although there is a note by the Juru administration]] [[on the number of members of a limited liability society]] [[Registration number 2059]] Please vote. I've been paying attention to that. [[11:08:41]] For 247 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[on increasing liability for forest pollution]] [[Registration number 6141]] [[second reading]] Reported to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on legislative security and law enforcement activities, Schemczuk Viktor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legislative Security and Law Protection has been prepared for a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on increasing liability for forest pollution]] The bill is designed to increase fines imposed on civil servants for damage to forests by sewage, chemicals, oil, and petroleum products. Harmful discards, wastes and wastes, and waste disposal by amending articles 72 and 73 of the Code of Administrative Offences. In preparation for the second reading, there were 10 proposals, of which 4 were taken into account in full, 5 were rejected, and 1 was included in part. In particular, the proposals for increased fines have been rejected because of the fine for the administrator. the offence must not exceed the fines provided for in criminal offences. In article 194 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, a fine for intentional destruction, or damage to property, does not exceed 50 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. So taking this proposal into account will require a change to the Criminal Code, which we cannot do in this draft law because we are in violation of article 116 of the Rules. It was also impossible to take into account the proposal to apply such a social occupation to the offenders, since this would require an amendment to article 221 of the Code on Administrative Violations. After all, the decision to impose it has the right to make an exclusive decision. This is also true of the comments of the General Legal Authority. Although they are quite correct, their consideration will lead to a violation of article 116 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At its meeting, the committee adopted a decision: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a bill in second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u84	Yes, dear fellows, let's go to the repairs. Who among the national deputies insists on their amendments? I don't see them. For example, I say that the Chief Legal Authority has made some observations. And the committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading as a whole. I put this proposal to the vote: the adoption of the second reading and the whole Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on increasing liability for forest pollution]] [[Registration number 6141]] Please vote. [[11:12:14]] For 305 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering: the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on increasing responsibility for burning vegetation or its residues]] [[Registration number 5171]] [[second reading]] Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u85	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honorary Colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, prepared for the second reading a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which was adopted by the Supreme Council on first reading. [[on increasing responsibility for burning vegetation or its residues]] The bill provides for the legal protection authorities to have a real impact on owners, land leasers who burn areas with tap, wetlands and other natural vegetation on land plots of 1 hectare and more, as most land users generally do not have a land size exceeding 1 ha. At the same time, the burning of vegetation or its remains takes place in areas that are owned or leased by land users. The Chief Legal Authority notes that making such changes to article 245 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine would decriminalize responsibility for destroying or damaging the plant world under the Code. I would like to remind you that the authors of this bill, Karmazin, Moysik, Bondar and others, have in parallel introduced a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administering Violations, which provided for the involvement of individuals in administrative responsibility for burning rubble, onions, pastures, grassland, wetlands and other natural vegetation up to one hectare. It was submitted to the Supreme Council later than Bill 5171, because it had long been missing the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. These two bills were intended to be submitted to your second reading at the same time, but on March 19, this year the bill, registration number 5170, was considered by the Supreme Council, but did not receive the required number of votes. In preparing the bill for second reading from the legislators of the legislative initiative to the committee, there were 7 proposals, of which 4 were fully counted, 3 were rejected. The proposal of the Yavorowski National Deputy, who proposed part one and two of article 245 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, was rejected, since members of the committee felt that the text of the article was more effective. Also rejected was the offer of the national deputy Zdravnov, who proposed to remove part two of the 245 articles from the Ukrainian Criminal Code in general. The committee's decision is to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the prescribed bill in second reading and in general as the Law of Ukraine. And the last. In the case of the adoption of the law in "The Final Positions" according to the requirements of the General Legal Administration and the legal technique, part one should be written as follows: "This law takes effect from the day of its publication." Well, a part of the second will sound like this, "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within a three-month period from the date of entry into force of this law to bring its legal acts into line with this law. These are editorial regulations. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u86	Thank you. Yes, the amendments are largely taken into account. Not including the correction of Yavorowski, he does not insist. The bill needs substantial work to be done. This is a remark made by the Chief Legal Authority. The committee's offering to take him in. I'm putting this motion to a vote. On the adoption of the second reading and the whole Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine, [[on increasing responsibility for burning vegetation or its residues]] [[Registration number 5171]] [[11:16:16]] For-81 There's an offer to re-send the second reading. Please vote. Vote. [[11:16:36]] For 290 The law is directed at rereading the second reading. Please take a closer look at the comments made by the General Legal Directorate. We are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure for Procedural Succession, by the Justice Committee, reports Dmitry Mikitovich Pritica. [[Registration number 4604]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u87	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! During the preparation of Bill 4604 for second reading, he received 18 suggestions, of which 10 were taken into account and 8 were rejected. Among other things, the proposals made by the National Deputies of Wonderland, Krutsa, Schustik are to replace the term “entities” with “enterprises and organisations”, and these proposals are not supported by the Committee. Since the Ukrainian Code of Masters also refers to business entities engaged in economic activities, both for profit and for profit, nonprofit activities. Thus, the narrowing of the circle of business - and - business - management entities in this case would significantly violate the rights of other operators in the field of farming, such as farmers and business entities. In this regard, the proposal of the appointed national deputies is not supported by the committee. The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Legal Authority called for a bill without interference. Please support the bill, which is extremely important in the economic process, in the second reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u88	Thank you, Dmitri Mikitovich. Yes, please don't take Krutz's amendments into account. He doesn't insist. Correctional shushik does not insist. Yes, the Great One is not. Kelestin? No, it's not. In this way, I am voting on the proposal for a profile committee to adopt the second reading of the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure on Procedural Succession. [[I note, however, that the Chief Legal Authority has called for a bill without notice.]] [[Registration number 4604]] Please vote. [[11:19:17]] For 280 Thank you, the law has been passed. We're considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[concerning the regulation of the broadcasting of programs and online bidding broadcasts]] [[Registration number 4510]] [[second reading]] Report to the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Committee, Helen Konstantinovna Kondratjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this bill provides for the prohibition of broadcasting on normal channels of interactive competition programs, which provide for the acquisition of a person's status as a participant in such a program or transfer. In restricted access channels, these broadcasts are only allowed to be distributed in compliance with legally established conditions to prevent financial damage to television viewers. The Committee on Freedom and Information had five amendments to the Rules, which had been considered by the Committee, three amendments had been taken into account, and two had been rejected. In line with the decision of the Committee approved at its meeting on 3 March 2011, it was recommended that the bill and the whole should be adopted in the second reading. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u90	Thank you. Let's get some repairs. Who insists on coworkers? Carmazine, please, 2 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u91	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have only made three amendments to this project. And on this amendment, I would like to propose this: paragraph one of the first part of article 6 to read: "No broadcasts except on channels with limited access, programs and online competitions, games, quizzes. First. In which television and radio audiences are offered to win in cash or in personal form for a personal victory, they are invited to contact a television organization in any way that provides for the collection of funds for a merger or a telephone conversation. [[make a phone call, send a short text message to a mobile phone, etc.]] The other one. Or conditions under which directly or indirectly provide for the acquisition of a person’s status as a participant. This position is not extended to broadcast programs and broadcasts from the games of state lotteries purchased by their parties in accordance with the law. Remembering other types of competitions, games, quizzes, sports competitions, etc. gives money or property to their participants."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u92	What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u93	The amendment was rejected because, in view of the frequent practice of interpreting in the same terms by various governmental authorities, it is justified to mention and list the activities permitted by the legislator in our situation. I mean, except for state lottery tickets, for example. This situation does not extend, for example, to creative competitions, such as the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u94	2 Carmazin’s amendment to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:22:40]] For-25 Not supported. 4th Amendment, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin. I thank all 25 deputies who have the courage to support this amendment. She really improved the situation. Part two of article 55, prime. I suggest you do the following: "According to the broadcasts of programs and broadcasts with paid interactive competitions, games, real-time quizzes, there should always be information, the text color of which should be in contrast to the color of the background warning, and its size should be no less than the size of the phone number that participants are invited to call: first, at the bottom of the screen, about the cost of the call to the studio or other way to pay for participation in the competition, game, quizze, the amount of calls and the chances of getting involved in the studio, second, at the top left of the screen of the warning that they are paid." Dear National Deputies! Now a lot of kids, pensioners get caught up in these scams and then they don't know what to do. Please consider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u96	The 4th vote is on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:24:03]] For-39 More, but not 226. So we've been through all the adjustments. The Chief Legal Office notes that the bill requires substantial work and re-reading. A professional committee suggests that it be accepted in a second reading and in general. I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee to adopt the Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[concerning the regulation of software broadcasts and online bidding broadcasts]] [[Registration number 4510]] I would like everyone to support this bill in a friendly way. Vote. [[11:25:00]] For-81 Not supported. On the one hand, we protect the interests of TV owners, but we forget about millions and millions of our citizens. The offer is for re-reading. Please vote. [[11:25:40]] For 294 The bill is being re-readed. I'm asking the second-reading committee to pay attention to the comments made by the Chief Legal Authority. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the protection of social morality]] [[Registration number 6532]] Report by Oleg Condratuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on 20 April 2011, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, prepared for the second reading, as of 16 June 2010. [[on the protection of social morality]] [[Registration number 6532]] The bill is supplemented by the laws of Ukraine: "On Childhood Protection", "On Printed Media and Press in Ukraine", "On Publishing," "On Advertising", "On Cinematography", all positions aimed at protecting social morality. And the relevant Social Moral Protection Act, with effective legislative changes, is going to lose effect. During the drafting of the bill, 24 amendments were made. Including 18, including editorial regulations, one and negative five. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend the Supreme Council of Ukraine to enact Ukraine’s Law as a whole. in the second reading and in general. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u98	Thank you. Let's see the amendments. Quiet, 3rd. Don't insist. It's seven o'clock. Is there a silencer? Please, the microphone. I forgot you were elsewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u99	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I insist that this amendment be left behind. My motivation was made last time. It is a matter of fatigue that we can eliminate the adoption of the moral laws of the Commission. We know why all of this is done: so that today everything on television, in print, in multiplication, in pornography and all the other perversions is uncontrollable. And that's why I think it's just necessary to keep this standard right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u100	Is there a committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u101	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u102	We totally agree with you, but your amendment contradicts article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council Rules: it was not the subject of the first reading, so it cannot be included.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, do not claim to be a reporter; I fully support it, for this really goes to the limit of 116 articles of the Rules. I thank the committee for such a position. I don't even put her to the vote. 7th Amendment. Silence, please, if there is. Paul Mikhailovich, 7th Amendment, yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u104	I think it's appropriate. How do you feel? You put it in the context in which it is, don't just take it out separately and don't give up your treatment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u105	Please have the Committee's opinion on the 7th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u106	I speak only to the committee, not my own opinion, first. Secondly, it wasn't the first reading either. If you want to regulate your amendments further, you can just put them into a separate bill and give them as an additional bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u107	There is a 7 amendment to the vote. [[11:29:54]] For-153 No correction supported. 11th, Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u108	Well, I don't think it's appropriate to continue voting because we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u109	Thank you. And it's the 24th, Wonderful. Don't insist. The Chief Legal Authority has noted that the bill requires technical and legal work, which can be done if we accept it in preparation for signature. I am voting on the proposal for a profile committee to adopt in the second reading and in general the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of social morality, registration number 6532. [[11:31:06]] For-12. We don't. Dear colleagues, I am for those who listen to us, the name is very good and correct, but unfortunately there are some nuances behind this name that pornography can be sent out, but if it's in an opaque package and so on and so forth. That's why I'm sorry. I think the Supreme Council did the right thing, and the bill is rejected. We're now, my dear fellows, approaching the chapter where three stars, that is to say, to the extent that the bill is ready. So far, the table in Bill 8399 on amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget 2011 Act on Road Finance has not been published. As soon as she gets here, we'll look at the table. The same applies to 7532. 7532 on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on public procurement. We are now discussing the draft law amending some of Ukraine's accounting laws. [[Registration number 8194]] [[second reading]] Reported by Irina Anatoliyovna Belousov, deputy head of the Economic Policy Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed that the Committee on Economic Policy prepare for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on accounting matters. The bill was adopted at the first reading on April 21, this year. I would like to remind you that the bill deals with the issue of the transition to financial reporting under international standards for public stock companies, banks, insurers and businesses that carry out business activities by species that are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The adoption of this law is an important step in moving economic operators into international standards of financial reporting, improving investment climate, and developing international cooperation in the economic field. The committee’s second reading included seven suggestions from the national deputies. Four of them are asked to count and three are rejected. I would like to draw your attention to the amendment of article 69 of the Banking and Banking Act adopted by the Supreme Council on February 15, this year. In particular, the bank is obliged not later than 30 April of the next reporting year to publish annual financial reporting and annual consolidated financial reporting together with an audit opinion. In connection with this bill, it is not appropriate to amend the Banking and Banking Act, as noted in the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. Exclusion of part two of the bill logically requires that the title of the bill be clarified and that it be drafted as follows: "To amend the Ukrainian Act on Accounting and Financial Reporting of Ukraine." The Economic Policy Committee proposes that the draft law be considered and adopted in a second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u111	Thank you. We're going after the repairs. I'm asking you to support the first amendment that's taken into account to change the name of the law. In the first reading, we adopted it under this title, "To amend some of Ukraine's accounting laws," the committee proposes "To amend Ukraine's Accounting and Financial Reporting Act in Ukraine." Please vote. [[11:36:04]] For 239. Supported. Amendment three, fourth and fifth, Carmazin insist? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u112	Yuri Karmazin, only Adam Ivanovich, I ask you not to hurry, all the corrections can't be justified in one minute, and you're restricting me to three times.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u113	No, I'm not limiting, I'm saying the third amendment, then the fourth and the fifth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u114	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, sorry I misunderstood you. Part of the first article 12 Prim., I propose to add to the new sentence, the following content: "The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine publishes on its website only the six of these accounting requirements and financial reporting requirements agreed upon in accordance with part two of this law." And I'd like to send you to the second point of the General Legal Authority's second observation, which says that the government is delegated Parliament's mandate to define the circle of persons to which the law applies. Please see the second point. Because of this, I ask you to consider my offer, at least a little bit, to improve the situation, even though I am not taking out all the warnings of the Legal Authority. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u115	Karmazin's third amendment to the vote, please identify yourself. [[11:37:39]] For -14 Not supported. 4th Amendment. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin. I propose in the second part of article 12 that the word "bank" be deleted and in amendment 5, Adam Ivanovich, after the second part of article 12, I propose to add a new part of the third sentence. Banks form financial reporting and consolidated financial reporting according to international standards and in accordance with the requirements of Part Three of this Law. In this regard, sections 3, 4 and 5 please consider sections 4, 5 and 6 of Article 12 prime. And I'm sending you back to the conclusions of the Scientific and Experimental, more faithfully, already the General Legal Department, which say that we need to reconcile the position of part five of article 8 and part three of article 12 of the Bill on Bugs and Financial Reporting with the provisions of the law and part five.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u117	Thank you. Irina Anatolyevna, what the committee thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u118	The Committee, I have already mentioned that, on 15 February, amendments to the Banking and Banking Act have been made and the way banks report on international standards is clearly set out. But when we talk about the Accounting Act, we specifically allocate a group of enterprises that are required to report financially on international standards, they are banks, they are public shareholders, they are insurance companies, and they are a number of other enterprises that the Cabinet of Ministers will set up for us. Thus, it is not appropriate for the Committee to enquire separately by bank in the Accounting Act, as all of this has been prescribed and amended by the Banking and Banking Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u119	Right. Although I think we've already taken the word "public" from stock companies, because it didn't exactly fit them. Remember, the law was recently passed. So essentially 4th and 5th interconnected, Yuri Anatolyevich argued them, we listened to the committee's response, but each of them I'm going to put to the vote. Vote 4 of Karmazin's amendment. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:40:32]] For-19 Not supported. And Karmazin's 5th amendment votes. [[11:40:49]] For -14 The rest of the amendments are counted. I'm voting on the second reading proposal and the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine with the name that we have specified with you. [[Registration number 8194]] Please vote. [[11:41:33]] For-52 There's an offer to re-send the second reading. Please. So take down the vote. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. [[11:42:05]] For 251 We're back. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8194]] Please vote. [[11:42:35.]] For 253 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibility of officials of state authorities and local self-government bodies. [[Registration number 6497]] Reported to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection, Oliynik Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Ukraine's draft Act amending certain legislation on strengthening the responsibility of officials of state authorities and local self-government bodies submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers was adopted on the first reading of April 21st of the year. The purpose of the bill is to set up charges for infringements of legislation in the field of entrepreneurship, including legislation on State regulatory policy. The issuance of documents of a permissive nature by the authorities, their officials, the legislation on the State registration of legal acts. In spite of the fairly tight terms, the committee has worked hard to prepare it for consideration in the second reading, and today I present you with the option that is proposed to be approved as a law. There were 16 amendments to the bill, 13 of which were taken into account entirely, and 3 amendments were rejected. [[this is Amendments 4, 5 and 6]] The Committee considers the proposed edition to meet the requirements of article 116 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Thus, according to the committee, the bill presented for consideration can be adopted in a second reading and in general. Please support and thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u121	Yes, dear fellows, we will follow the amendments. Yes, Carmazine, 4th. Are you insisting? 1 to vote? All right, now. Excuse me, Yuri Anatolyovich. 1 correction of Sweden is included. The confirmation is subject to 1 amendment, please specify. [[11:45:07]] Z-11. Not confirmed. So there's still an amendment to the first reading. 2 correction of Carmazin is included. I'm betting on confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:45:34]] For -6 Not supported. The first reading is left. Yes, four-a, Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u122	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the peoples of Ukraine, we see that now, as a representative of the majority, the leader, everything has been done to ensure that everything the committee wants to improve in this not entirely successful bill has been removed. That was how the correction of Sweden, Carmazin’s amendment, was now taken into account. Karmazin's next amendment is that in article 166, with the "10" badge in part three, after the words "refusing the authorising authority of the holder in issuing a document of a permissive nature" should be supplemented by the words "without sufficient grounds to do so or.".. Because the legal authority can and is justified in refusing to do so. Because of this clarification the words "without sufficient grounds to do so or." It is absolutely necessary for the principle of determination to be that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u123	Yes, 4 amendments are made to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:47:16]] Z-11. Not supported. 5th Amendment, Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u124	Thank you, Mr. Director. You're doing beautifully with your hand. That's why we live like this, that you're destroying the legal field. By the way, it was done in all dictatorial regimes absolutely, if you follow correctly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u125	We have a democratic power.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u126	We call it a democratic, and basically right now, Adam Ivanovich, it's turning into a dictatorial absolute monarchy with a conductor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u127	This is your subjective opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u128	For this reason, the 5th amendment of Yuri Carmazin refers to, in part four, after the words "cancellation of a document of a permissive nature by a permissive organ" to be supplemented by the words "without sufficient grounds to do so or." Please take into account. Please support my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u129	Yuri Karmazin's request is for a vote, 5 amendments. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:48:32]] For-21 Not supported. Yeah, 6th Amendment, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u130	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you very much to all who have supported. In part five, in paragraph two, after the words "imposing a fine," the words "on officials" should be deleted. And then you follow the text. It is reported that the number 3 proposal has been rejected, but we see that both the first and the second sentences are not fully taken into account. So please support the offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u131	Yes, the 6th amendment is Karmazin. Here we go. [[11:49:30.]] For-16 Not supported. The 7th amendment, I take it, is also rejected, right? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u132	Four a's, five a's, six a's just rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u133	What about the 7th Amendment accounted for?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u134	And the 7th count, yes. Confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u135	Well, it says here. So, yes, dear colleagues, the committee says that 7 amendments were taken into account. Colleagues insist on confirmation. So I'm putting the 7th amendment on confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:50:13]] For-13. So the first reading is left. 8 is included. It's on confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:50:36]] For the five of us. The first reading is left. 9 Amendments apply to Sweden’s confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:50:58]] For the Not supported. Edit the first reading. 10th, for confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. Also Sweden. [[11:51:19]] For two. Not supported. 11 Carmazin's revision is not known whether it's counted or not. The 11th Amendment votes. It's counted. We're voting for confirmation. [[11:51:51]] For the four of us. The first reading is left. 12th. 13th for confirmation, please. 13th count, bet on confirmation. [[11:52:16]] For two. Edit the first reading. The 14th Amendment of Sweden is included. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:52:40]] For the four of us. The first reading is left. The 15th of Sweden is accounted for. To confirm, please vote, determine. [[11:53:01]] For the The first reading is left. 16 Amendments included, Sweden. We're on to confirmation, we're on to it. [[11:53:26]] For two. The first reading is left. 17th, accounted for. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u136	Yes, in the light of the amendments that have been voted on, I put the vote to the vote. I am voting on the proposal of a committee of profile for adoption in a second reading as a whole of the Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to increase the responsibility of officials of State authorities and local governments. [[Registration number 7497]] Please vote. [[11:54:20]] For 247 The law is passed. Now we should be looking at the draft Ukrainian Air Code, but unfortunately there's not yet a table, it's another second reading. We are considering a draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on improving the institutional and legal framework for the fight against crime and corruption]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number 8255]] Reports the head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of Malishev Vladimir Stepanovic's activities, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Recently, our committee held hearings on a very serious, relevant topic: "Prevention of offences, crimes committed by militia personnel". The Committee was attended not only by heads of the Ministry of the Interior and the Attorney-General's Office but also by other law enforcement agencies. The hearings concluded that there were still many serious shortcomings in the work of the police that could not be kept silent. There has been a situation that the Ministry of the Interior Internal Security Service is not working as well as it can, but should work. There are many factors: and insufficient funding, this year the Ministry of Internal Affairs is financed by 40 per cent of the amount required; and personnel that have been destroyed by the orange authorities. Think of the fact that 15,000 staff members have been dismissed in 2005, by the way, over the past 12 years, 100,000, the vast majority of whom are honest, professional and literate. Of those left to work for 20 and 25 years, there are units left. Question: "Who will teach young people to work under these difficult conditions?" In our view, there must be a strong Internal Security Service within the Ministry in order to prevent crimes and offences committed by members of the militia. It is now part of the governance structure to combat organized crime. [[UBOP]] Let us consider what is common between organized crime in the general sense and the offence of police officers. One thing is to catch bandits, drug dealers, and quite another: to develop, for example, corruption schemes among police officers in the IMF system itself. The submission of this service to the Head of UBOP has not brought and, I am sure, will not be of any use in the future. I've told the Minister of the Interior about this before. That is why we have drafted and introduced this bill. One of the initiators, by the way, is the Minister of the Interior, Lieutenant General of the Anatoly Mogilev militia. The purpose of this bill. First, internal security units will be directly subordinated to the Minister, and no minister will be able to eliminate them in the future without Parliament. Secondly, internal security units are granted the right to conduct search and search activities. The Chief of this unit is entitled to work within the framework of strict secrecy. In preparing the bill on second reading, the Committee received 8 amendments to the bill, 7 of which were taken into account in full and 1st drafting. The Chief Legal Office has made comments, but they, the Committee considers, are unfounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u138	Thank you. Yes, all the corrections are included. No one insists. Dear colleagues, let's be friendly about the proposals for adoption in the second reading and in the whole Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Improving the Fundamentals of the Fight against Crime and Corruption. [[Registration number 8255]] Please vote. [[11:58:51]] For 273 Copy that. And, dear fellows, we have a small 1 law left, let's take it and move the break. The draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the participation of the national jury]] [[Registration number 8308]] [[second reading]] He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Oliynik Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. I'm going to continue the session to consider this law, and we're going to continue the break for exactly 30 minutes. Please, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u139	The Committee of the Supreme Council on the Legislative Security of Law, prepared for consideration in the second reading and submitted by the People's MP Philippenk, a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the participation of the national jury]] I would like to remind you that this bill proposes to eliminate the national jury's institution in criminal proceedings as obsolete and obsolete. The committee disagrees with the proposed proposal and notes that the need of the national jury in criminal proceedings is due to the fact that the area of criminal and procedural legislation is most sensitive, where rights and freedoms of the citizen are most often limited and then requires effective criminal and procedural safeguards to protect those rights. Yes, the existence of a national jury institution is a requirement of article 124, part 4, of the Constitution of Ukraine. In the process of preparing the bill for consideration in the second reading, there were 28 suggestions: 25 of them were taken into account, partially or editorially, and three were rejected. I would like to point out that taking into account the proposals made by the national deputy of the country of Sweden has allowed the committee to settle the questions about the harmonization of the draft amendments proposed by the author from the Constitution of Ukraine, i.e. the national jury of two persons will participate in a court session. [[this is Amendment No. 3]] The committee proposes to accept it as a second reading and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u140	Yes, please, dear colleagues. Everything's almost taken into account, except that it's in conflict with article 116. Nobody insists? No, it's not. Then, with your permission, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and the whole Act on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the participation of the national jury]] [[Bill number 8308]] Please vote. [[12:01:52]] For 203 Honorary colleagues, the committee, and the Chief Legal Authority have called for this bill without any notice. I propose to go back to voting on this bill. Please vote. [[12:02:28]] For 233 We're back. I am betting on the adoption of the law, registration number 8308, the Act on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code. Please vote. [[12:02:56]] For 214 Who's in favour of re-reading the bill, please vote. [[12:03:27]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a break of up to 12 hours is announced for 33 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u141	Yes, Your Honor, I ask you to come into the hall today. I mean, at 12:30, we're supposed to be talking to you about the election and release of judges. Yes, we're looking at draft regulation 8479. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u142	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! According to article 76, part 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53 and 64 of the Act, and examined the referrals of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government bodies concerning the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who came to the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine on a stand-by basis during the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to serve as judges on an indefinite basis. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, I submit the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis. To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Sergey Viktorovich, Polishchuk Vladimir Yusefovich, Hripun Oleg Alexiyovich; the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv district of Vilko Stepanović; the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv District of Vienna, Eugene Mikolaiovich; Dnipropetrov's Court of Appeal Oreshkin Elin Valerievna; Kiev’s Court of Appeal Kuksov Vladimir Volodymyrovich; The Kirovograd District Administrative Court of Bregey Roman Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, comments on the nominations were not received from the national deputies. That is why we have reason to vote on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to elect judges. [[Registration number 8479]] Please vote. [[12:36:58]] For 254 It's been decided. Let us, fellow judges, welcome to the election on an untimely basis. [[Applause]] Let us now consider the question of the release of judges. Reported the head of the High Council of Justice, Koleschenko Volodymyr Mikolayovich. These are regulations 8480 and 8481.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u144	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! The Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting on 19 April this year, pursuant to section 126, paragraph 9, of the Fifth Article 126, article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law of Ukraine on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the dismissal of judges under general conditions and decided to apply the relevant application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All the judges have been identified with their true will. There is no adverse influence or coercion in their decision to release. The Supreme Council of Justice is proposing the release of judges. According to article 126, part five, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council should be dismissed from office of judges: Bahchisarai District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Pozniak Alexander Mikolaiovich, in connection with the application for discharge at your own request; The Novobus District Court of the Mikolai district of Chernikov Volodymyr Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Kharkiv District Court of Kharkiv Savchenka district, Grigori Mikolaiyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; and the judge of the Obollonian District Court of Kiev, Volkova Sergija Anatoliyovitch, in connection with the application for resignation. Please support our submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! She understood the situation, the dismissal of judges in connection with their resignation applications, and one of them applied for release on his own terms. No questions, no comments? On these candidates, please. Microphone, Kenderora, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u146	Volodymyr Mikolaiovich! Jaroslav Kenzier "For Ukraine!".. I'm not on these nominations that you're presenting, and I'm interested in this High Qualifying Commission, and I know that you're looking at the case of the Lviv judge Jaremenko for his exploits, when he let go of an open gang known to the whole of Ukraine, the Suska gang, and before that he fabricated the case and condemned the evidence to the permanent imprisonment of Vladimir Panasenko. I know you're looking at this case, you're going to have the Panasenko family's application to have you in a complex, so to speak, one decision of this judge and another decision that is the opposite, to look at this case for the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u147	Thank you. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, don't answer, I gave it to the mach, and my brother-in-law set me up, it's not about that question. I'm voting on the proposal. When we're looking at it. If we're going to look at the candidates, the names you're talking about, then you're going to speak. Yavorowski, do you have any of these candidates? Please, Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u148	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I'm referring to the last candidate who applied for his own resignation. I want to welcome him and thank him very much, I'm sure he's a conscientious man, because today I'm working as a judge, I'm not blaming the judges, but in the system that came together, yesterday I was in the so-called court of Julia Timoshenko, and then I had my cases with the courts, and I imagine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u149	Dear fellows, let us not show ourselves before our judges. You said it had a point not only to the last candidate, to everyone, because they wrote a resignation application the same way. So don't use the drive to do that. You'll be able to say anything you want tomorrow. I'm putting to the vote the Bill of Order 8480 on the release of judges. Please vote. [[12:41:53]] For 285 It's been decided. And Project Order 8481, but here it is. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u150	Telegrams of the following content came to the address of the Supreme Council. This is regarding Judge Neznak Viktor Fedorovich, who is asked about his release for breaking his oath. "To arrive at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on May 12th, I have no choice but to stay in the hospital." I ask you to make a decision on the possibility of listening without his involvement, taking into account the practice that has evolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u151	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, we're looking at it for the first time. Then let's just say if there's a telegram, we'll put it off, if he continues to abuse it, if he abuses it, we'll consider it without a judge. Is there no objection? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u153	Thank you. The question of the election and dismissal of judges has been settled. Once again, welcome to the elected judges. We're moving on in the daytime. Let us turn to the question of the appointment of out - of - turn local elections. From the committee head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Upper Sergei Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u154	Honorary colleagues, honourable voters, distinguished Adam Ivanovich, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 20 April 2011, reviewed the concerns of individual local councils regarding the appointment of out-of-office elections in 11 local self-government bodies, in particular in 10 rural and one village heads in connection with the early termination of their powers pursuant to article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. The reasons for the early termination are as follows: if you wish, six cases, in connection with death, four, and the Council's decision, one. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Laws on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, and the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, village heads, the Committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the appointment of individual rural and rural heads on Sunday, July 17, 2011, by adopting the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, whose projects were distributed in the session hall. Please support these positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will vote on draft decrees. I'm voting on the Bill 8460 -- the appointment of the Raj-Alexandrov Rural Head election. [[This is the Slovenian area of the Donetsk Region.]] And once again, I emphasize that the election, all the Sunday elections on July 17th, is not to be repeated in every decision. 8,460 votes in favour. Please vote. [[12:45:13]] For 261 Copy that. It is based on the vote of Supreme Council Order 8460-1 on the appointment of the Zaidarov Rural Leader's election. [[This is Novopskovsky district, Luganszina]] Please vote. [[12:45:41]] For 265 Copy that. It is based on the Supreme Council Resolution No. 8460-2 on the appointment of the secondary elections of the Chubarov Rural Head. [[The Pologna Region of Zaporozhye]] Please vote. [[12:46:10]] For 264 The Order was passed. Puts to the vote Order No. 8460-3 — the appointment of the consecutive election of the Wessel village head. [[Judge City Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Please vote. [[12:46:40]] For 267 The Order was passed. It is up to the vote to order the selection of the novice elections of the nouvelleslav village head. [[Berislav Hersonian Region]] [[Registration number 8460-4]] Please vote. [[12:47:08]] For 268. The Order was passed. Registration number Order 8460-5 is the appointment of the election of the Visninovskie Rural Head. [[Onufriyev district of Kirovograd]] Please vote. [[12:47:37]] For 267 The Order was passed. The Order on the Assignment of Subsequent Elections of the Dumanec Rural Head shall be voted on. [[Cherkast region, Cherkastina]] [[Registration number 8460-6]] Please vote. [[12:48:03]] For 276 Decision taken. It's a draft decision on the appointment of the Stribski Rural Head election. [[Red Army District of Žitomir]] [[Registration number 8460-7]] Please vote. [[12:48:34]] For 277 A decision has been made. The registration number of Decree 8460-8 is for the appointment of the non-sequential elections of the Zelenodibrian Rural Head. [[City of Cherkast Region]] Vote. [[12:49:04]] For 279 It's an order. The Supreme Council for the Assignment of the Extra Elections of the Zenogoya Rural Head, please vote. [[Circumstances in Ternopilska]] [[8460-9 registration number]] [[12:49:31]] For 273 Copy that. And the Supreme Council's draft decree on the appointment of the election of the New World Village Head. [[Krasnodon region of Luhansk]] [[Registration number 8460-10]] Please vote. [[12:50:00]] For 277 I'll take the order. Thank you. I've been assigned to the election. Here's the question: a draft decree to change and establish the boundaries of the city of Hmelnicki and Hmelnicki district of Hmelnicki district. [[Registration number 8395]] Reported to the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[12:50:45.]] For 217 Offer supported. Please, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Demchishen Vasil Vasilovich, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been approached by the Hmelnick district council to provide information on the change and establishment of the borders of the city of Hmelnicki Hmelnicki R., where it is proposed to increase the existing territory of the city and establish new borders. Today, according to the land-cadastral data within the city of Hmielnicky, there is a total area of 8,000.624 hectares. The need to establish a new border of the city of Hmielnicki is due to changes that have taken place, such as new housing, the location of the city’s waste site, the reconstruction of the cemetery, and so forth. A suitable project by the Land Administration to change and establish the boundaries of the city of Hmielnicki, developed by the State Enterprise "Hmelnic Research Institute", taking into account the actual land use situation, the master plan for the construction and the prospects for the development of the city. In doing so, it is envisaged to increase the hop town’s area by 681 acres [681 ha] at the expense of the land of the Hmelnick district. The city will have an existing housing structure, including the Ostrius and the Wildlands, the city's active municipal clearing facilities of the Hmělnikvodokal utility in its permanent use, the area of the city's solid residential waste site of the Spetkomuntrans utility, with the possibility of its reconstruction, the existing city cemetery and the areas necessary for its expansion. Within the city of Hmelnicky, there are also 306 hectares of rural land, with more than 20 garden cooperatives created over the past 25 years, and 5 hectares of Hmielnický kremobeci. The city’s residents, who have a house in the listed garden cooperatives, are actually living there for a long time, are questioning the authorities, the local government about the granting of housing status to these houses, and their ability to reconstruct them at appropriate addresses. The issue of changing the city’s borders is agreed upon in accordance with current legislation and has been considered and supported by the appropriate rural councils, the Hmelnicki district, the Hmelnicki district councils, and the Hmelnicki district councils.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u157	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u158	The Council on State Building and Local Self - Government agreed with the suggestions for a positive solution to the issue and supported the concern of the Hmelnick district council. I would like the National Deputies to support the proposal made by the Hmělní District Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u159	Yes, please have a seat. If there are speakers, please sign in. Yeah, I think we're clear. Dear colleagues! The question, as always, is not easy. But at the same time, we need to understand the needs of every developing city. And in order for all of this to be in the order established by law, we need to make appropriate decisions. So I'm asking you to support the proposal that came from the hopsmen and supported by our committee of profile, and to adopt Order 8395 on changing and establishing the boundaries of the city of Hmmelnick and Hmmelnicki district of the Hmmelni district. Please vote. [[12:54:35]] For 277 Thank you. It's been decided. Let Hmelnicki develop. We're considering a draft regulation on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances and consequences of activities in the Ukrainian oil market of the company Livela. [[Registration number 8407]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:55:15.]] For 208 Supported. The author has the floor, one of the authors of the Yacenouk Bill Arsenij Petrovich. Get ready for the McKeenka Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u160	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You will have to decide who stole 5 billion dollars from the Ukrainian budget in the last year. A short story next. Livela, who made a total of $400 as a foreign investment, decided that she could go back to the Foreign Investment Act, which lost its relevance back in the '90s. Under this law, such a company could import any goods 15 years ago without paying taxes. This company receives a number of court decisions last year, including the decision of the Supreme Economic Court on the reinstatement of the administrative, I'm sorry about the renewal of the company. And notice, 80 percent of all oil products imported into Ukraine are imported through this company. The government budget of Ukraine, which has a registered deficit of 38 billion, is simply not enough, the state budget, which lends tens of millions of dollars to increase by as much as 10 dollars, as our government made a decision yesterday, paid to teachers and doctors, lost 5 billion dollars. The commission of inquiry should establish the names, surnames, addresses, appearances and passwords of all those involved in this scheme, because this scheme cannot work without the direct coverage of the strong world of this. The committee was nominated by all, including the Party of Regions. So I ask the members of Parliament to vote and determine where the 5 billion dollars of Ukrainian taxpayers have gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u161	Yes, thank you. From the Committee of Vladimir Volodymyrovich Makeenko, head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u162	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! We are informed that the committee at its meeting has considered the draft regulation. All the factions put their representatives on this committee. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u163	The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u165	Thank you. Have a seat, please. If you would like to participate in the discussion, please sign up. Please, Grigorovich Lilia. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u166	Lila Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Very short and logical. In support of this draft decision, I immediately want to offer material from which it can move away, data from the Court of Auditors on our major issues in the country in one quarter, all of this has grown: unemployment, prices, external debt service. And so if we move away from the question of "Little," it's obvious that we're just going to the country's default. We need to support the creation of this commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u167	Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u168	I want to give the word to the head of the opposition government, Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u169	Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I don't think this is the first case in the state of Ukraine. I think everyone remembers a company called Bison, which also imported petroleum products, cucumbers, meat, and she had a different problem. What do we actually see here? What the reporter claims to be 5 billion direct losses only from the non-payment of excise duties, duties, and value added taxes is not enough. You know perfectly well that all of Ukraine's oil and gas plants are actually stopped. Why process crude oil if it is possible to import excise, customs and tax free of charge into a positive actually lion's share of all oil products in Ukraine? But the question for this company isn't just this, the question is, who actually allows those judges, for example, the Kharkiv Administrative Court or the Supreme Administrative Court, to decide one single company out of ten thousand who, in their time with foreign investments, registered in Ukraine, to let them come here without paying taxes, excise duties and oil duties, oil products and everything else. What's more, it's been known that the company's latest equipment is tobacco and alcohol. She's moved on. She repeats Bison's record, which during her leadership in the government of Yanukovich and Azarov resumed her entire activity. So I'm convinced that without Yanukovic and Azarov's roof, this company couldn't bring an ounce of oil into Ukraine. So we need to immediately create this commission and investigate these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u171	Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u172	There was no case where I personally or the Party of the Regions did not support the creation of special or temporary commissions of inquiry to investigate facts, especially those of the State budget. I wouldn't have done it, I'd have done it if it wasn't for the previous man, who again instead of talking in fact, got a lot of politics here. Let's say that the court wrote down 7.5 billion dollars of debt from EESU and wrote us all down. Why do these judges remain at work until now, and no one has brought them to any responsibility? We were in this room, remember, creating a temporary commission of inquiry, trying to figure out where 24 billion dollars went for the sale of Crevystall, and we also set up a transnational corporation in Ukraine. And then there was, by the way, a beautiful bill. We had the opportunity to close at the expense of 9 billion of these funds 37 percent of our savings commitments. I think we need to support the idea of Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk, of course, but I would ask all my colleagues, let's talk in fact, let's not go by the names, especially with these roofs. I'm just wondering where the B.I.T.s got this "female": "crossing," "specific." But speak the normal language! We all understand what you're talking about and what you're saying. You have a major task now different and otherwise, we feel for you in this task, we wish you success, but order in the country needs to be brought together: opposition and power. We are the national deputies of Ukraine, we are the branch of power, and we must fight together for more order in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u173	Please, from the "Reforms" group. One minute. Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u174	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable colleagues! It's a technical question. Yesterday at the Standing Committee, we considered this issue, made a positive decision, and made comments to the hall. The only point was that there was one point about the activities of the MP's Reform Group for the Future. We, at the request of the initiators of the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry, have submitted to this commission our fellow national deputy, Bobilov Aleksandra Fedotovic. We would like to correct this error because he is a member of another commission, and we would like to invite a representative of Hassuk Petrovich, a representative of this committee, to vote. The corresponding submission to the head of the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” was filed and registered. Thank you. As for the commission's activities, in principle, the MP's Reform for the Future cannot see the obstacles to not supporting this decision. We will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u175	Please, one minute, Lechchenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u176	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Montenegro. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Of course, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this decision. But I want to point out this. The faction of the Ukrainian Company has always proposed and suggests that all strategic directions of the state's vitality should be taken into the hands of the state, including energy supply. Unfortunately, the other part of the hall, other than the Communists, does not support that. So this situation with Livella is just part of the stretching, the stretching, the not adding to the budget, and so on. The question needs to be resolved, as they say, in the root. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u177	Thank you. Only I don't understand Arseny Petrovich, for what? We don't vote on the ruling yet. One minute, Yatzenuk. But I didn't hear any attention at your address. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u178	It's not about notes: the last name was named. So according to the Rules, order is order. I have a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u179	The name can be called, but it doesn't mean anything yet. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u180	If you have no objection to us in the first paragraph to add the words "Livela" and other related legal persons." I'll explain why: because they were there to depict from two dozen other legal persons who received the same court decision, in order to establish the truth within the framework of the commission's work, I would ask that the phrase "and other legal persons" be added to the paragraph of the first ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u181	Not really, Arseny Petrovich. Because "other legal persons" and we belong to you. You'll be us, too. Oh, that's a different matter. So now we're going to vote on the draft ruling, I'm going to base it. Please vote. 8407: on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the circumstances and consequences of activities in the Ukrainian oil market of Livela. Please vote. [[13:07:36]] For 340. Vote. Now we're going to go after the repairs. Amendment by the author of the Yatsenuk bill. He's proposing -- I think it's worth supporting -- that "Levela companies" and other legal persons associated with it." Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. Vote. [[13:08:26]] For 178. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, wait! Do you want to make a decision or should it not be accepted? I think you want to take it. So let's take it easy. 178, since it takes 150 votes, it's accepted. Yes, there was an amendment, and she did. which is necessarily what our response needs, and the profile committee has pointed to it, and the Reforms for the Future group is asking us, instead of Bobilov's last name, Bobilov's candidate, who is a member of another commission, and the Rules forbid it, to propose to the committee of Haysuk Peter Petrovich. Please vote. For. [[13:09:27]] For 321 This proposal is supported. Me, too. Now, now, Yuri Anatolyovich. Carmazine, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u182	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose the obvious things that we need to do here in order to make it easier for the commission. Write down, ask the High Council of Justice and the Higher Court of Justice to study the issue of the activities of the courts and judges who have decided on the possibility of working "Livela" under the conditions she has worked. And the Court of Auditors is charged with checking the tax administration in this section. Because, as we know, the State Tax Service and the Administration waived their claims when the case was considered by the Kharkiv Administrative Court of Appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u183	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, but it's not from this opera. That is when we listen to the report of the commission, then we can be determined by the results of the report to accept these recommendations. And now we're just creating a commission that should or should not be able to reach its conclusions. There is no proposal for a decision. I'm not going to put it to a vote, because once again, it's not that. I have a question: Do we need to study this situation for a year? It's too much. Maybe we can create a commission for six months? I'm proposing to determine the duration of the interim commission of inquiry, six months from the date of adoption of this decision. [[7 Points]] Please vote. Vote. [[13:11:34]] For 315 So, dear fellows, we have voted on the amendments with you. We have reason to vote in the entire Order 8407 on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances and consequences of activities in the Ukrainian oil market of Livella and other related legal persons. Please vote. [[13:12:16]] For 322 Order adopted with a double reserve. Dear colleagues, you have been given a comparative table to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the financing of the road economy]] This is registration number 8399. I invite you to speak to the committee of the Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets of Melnik Petar Volodymyrovich. Where's Melnik? I was just walking around the hall. Please read second.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u184	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, I am very grateful that you have received today's monograph of reforming the Ukrainian tax system, which came out in this current year, according to Mikoli Janović Azarov, head of the entire collective of Fedor Alexiyovich Jaroshenko and deputy, I think this will help us in our practical work, all within the framework of the 90th anniversary of the National University of Taxation of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Loans, loans from foreign governments, banks, and international financial institutions for the implementation of investment programs refer to government external loans. The bill proposes the addition to article 27 and article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2011 which allows the Ministry of Finance to amend the State Budget enrollment rates to reflect the actual arrival in 2011 of such loans, loans and expenditure under the relevant budgetary programmes, within the overall scope of these loans, the loan was approved by Appendix 9 to this Act with the adjustment of the expenditure and credit indicators set out in Appendices 2, 3, 4 to this Act and the marginal amount of government debt defined in Article 8 of this Act. In addition, article 29 of the bill allows the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in its 2011 schedule, to provide funds to the State Motorways Service of Ukraine to cover temporary cash breaks of the special State Budget Fund related to the implementation of the budget programme "Network Development and Maintenance of Roads of General Use". On the basis of a single treasury account, they will be returned by the end of the year without accounting for interest on the use of such funds. The monthly breakdown of expenditure from the special fund does not take into account the increased financial need for the summer period, as it depends on the availability of funds from the source of the special fund, resulting in a significant current loan to the subcontractors, which is due only at the end of the year. In addition, due to the lack of circumvention costs, companies are unable to purchase the necessary road-building materials, constructions, fuel-oil materials, and so on, which makes it impossible to do the work in a timely manner. The Committee on Budget Affairs today considered a comparative table of the draft amendment to the 2011 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, number 5399. And the second reading on the committee came up with five proposals from national MPs, which are included, proposals are editorial and technical-legal. The committee decided to recommend Bill 8399 to the Supreme Council as a result of the second reading, to adopt as a whole as a law. Please support the decision of the Committee on Budget Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, three wise suggestions have been made to the law, five because they are all taken into account. Dear colleagues, you know what this is about, it's about road farming. On our way, we ride with you, which are far from European, although some of them appear close to us. No, no, they'll build roads. So I suggest, let's be friendly about Act No. 8399 amending the Ukrainian State Budget 2011 Act. [[second reading]] [[on the financing of the road economy]] Please vote for the law. You can't because it's a second reading. [[13:17:15]] For 245 Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, there are no questions during the second reading, this is already the second reading. How much did it cost, how many laws did we write there, a gift to what extent could it be accepted? How much? 400 bucks. I think it's cheaper. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The Strategy for the Humanities Policy of Modern Ukraine". [[Registration number 8364]] Head of the Yavorowski Committee, Vladimir Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u186	Dear voters! Dear representatives of the opposition! Dear representatives of the patriotic wing of the majority! [[Applause]] I think so. A patriotic wing. Don't all clap like that right now, I didn't mean everybody. I wanted to draw the attention of Ukrainian society and the people I called, to the fact that, in fact, Ukraine's very fearsome humanitarian policy, which was just born in 20 years, is actually being burned by napalm, a complete napalm. I also mean that, at last, Ukraine, a great state, does not have a vice-premier on humanitarian issues. I don't think it's random. Today we have an anti - Ukrainian minister of education who can't make it up, even a literary imagination can't make up such an anti - Ukrainian hater as Tobacco. I could call it, call it, call it. Because of this, it seemed that if it were not for the Supreme Council’s collegiate mind, it would somehow have to rely on the problem, restore the humanitarian space in Ukraine, and restore it. As a result of these hearings, the hearings were very calm, normal, intelligent. And this is the second time that I'm going to go up to this rostrum to get everyone to work, because our committee includes the majority, and the minority representatives, absolutely representatives of all the political segments that are in Ukraine today. It's all done. And I have to tell you what's actually up to 07.04. In 2011, no comments were received from the majority who voted against these recommendations. Once again, very cautious, calm, considered in all areas, what we should do today in Ukraine. Because of that, we're actually making one small amendment to the fact that the Ministry of Culture would have to provide the premises of the National Research Centre for Restoration and provide funding for the renewal of the independent technology base of this centre. That's it. The rest, I say again, are considered, normal proposals. Because of that. Well, let's test you once again for your patriotism, your affection for building our Ukrainian state. Because society, most of it, I think it's embarrassing that you were yesterday. Today we vote for Oleškovsky Sich, the committee I support absolutely Zruvica, your national deputy, it's a wise proposal and we'll support it. But not to vote in favour of the day Crowd, not to vote but to vote that there was a Ukrainian in Canada, Yatzik? I was very familiar with him, by the way. Who decided to invest a large amount of money in a Ukrainian - language contest, and you did not vote to celebrate his Jubilee properly. Because of this, please take another disgrace on your head! I propose to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u187	Yes, Your Honor, I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on "The Humanitarian Policy Strategy. Yes, take down the vote. Who wants to speak: two for, two for against, please sign up. Kamchatten, the Reform Group for the Future. After him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u188	Please give my word to my colleague Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u189	Please, Mr. Cranwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u190	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Right now, I think there was just a negative example of how we shouldn't present drafts and how we shouldn't act in the hall. Once the vote had taken place, the accent could be placed on it. Our group has considered this draft regulation, and we understand that there are things in it that can be perceived differently. But we have seen that the overall goal is beneficial, and we have decided that we will vote in favour of the decision. But in the end, this discussion, it led to the fact that I can't even guarantee that all the members of our group would press the pros button. Why go out with a bunch of accusations, the more the charges of yesterday, when there was almost supposed to be a successful vote when our group gave all 20 votes in charity, the projects that had to do with honouring the memory of the truly prominent Ukrainian actors gave most votes to almost all the factions of the majority. But those who now speak were absent from the room. Well, as far as I'm concerned, if I can still understand "Our Ukraine," BUT is for an imaginary reason. And today to make this statement, well, you know, it's like a kind of spit to the people who voted in favour of these draft regulations yesterday, supported them with their soul and regretted that they didn't pass, who today are willing to vote in favour of the good, in our view, even though some problematic decision on these hearings is being made. We'll vote yes. But I would very much like to ask my fellow MPs in a similar style to hold a little bit of emotion inside of me. Because you've directed them not against those who go against them. You spit on those who were willing to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u191	It's just, Taras, there's a lot of energy in people. They weren't at the meeting yesterday, so they say so. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u192	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak to Deputy Vadim Koleschenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u193	Kolesnicka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u194	A faction of Party regions, Koleschenko Vadim. Dear colleagues, the humanitarian policy of our State must reflect the national idea of our State. And the national idea of our State is expressed by the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic, “Ukraine exists for people!".. Both the President's policies and the Government's policies and the majority's policies in the Supreme Council are aimed at unifying. We must cooperate, not accuse and divide. In this part, I would like to welcome the very right, very promising, very European policy of the Minister of Education of Dmitry Tobacco. And all the uninvolved professionals certainly recognize the remarkable gap in the system we have been left with. Which today, minds, not the one we would like to have -- our education system is finally beginning to appear healthy, reasonable, eternal thanks to Dmitri Tobacco. I invite the drafters of the bill not to concentrate on humanitarian policy only on the issue of language, because the language is not in the European arena of Ukraine, but in the people. And we have very good people. And people speak different languages. And people in Ukraine want to live together and want to build a state together. Therefore, the concentration of Ukraine's humanitarian policy is wrong, and this does not unite our State. I therefore express my view that this project should be sent to the finalization and that the humanitarian policy of Ukraine should reflect the full range of languages, cultures and aspirations of our united people, the Ukrainian people, our remarkable State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u195	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u196	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. Of course, each member of the Ukrainian Parliament has his own view of what humanitarian policies are, and this notion cannot be narrowed down to language. But we must not forget that language is one of the defining factors of the nation. There is no Ukrainian language in another country, and it is the way it is done today in our country under today’s rule that only someone who does not love Ukraine very much and who does not want it to have a future, including a linguistic future. I'd like to say that humanitarian policy is being put in place today and in decisions concerning villages where schools are being destroyed and children are said to be going to district centers. I point out that this will lead to the destruction of villages, as was the case in Russia’s non-terrestrial zone. Humanitarian policy is also the possibility of sounding the Ukrainian word on the air, and you have recently decided to remove any quotas for Ukrainian songs, for the Ukrainian word. Moreover, newspapers today are 80 percent Russian - speaking. So, wait, please tell me, Putin and Medvedev, who are accusing Ukrainian veterans of staying in the Great War, of not taking part in it, of worrying about our language humanitarian policy? Obviously not. Therefore, today’s proposal that this issue should be broken and not made is certainly evidence of the great patriotism of those who offer it. And what the President defined as the basis for the humanitarian line is Ukraine to improve people's lives, so 26 of them have already improved their lives. They have become billionaires, they have an enormous increase in their assets today in a year, with the general poverty of the nation, the destruction of the people, including the diseases where we became the world’s first. That's what we need to think about. And not to destroy the field and obstetric points, as it was done and so on. That's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u197	Yes, Carmazin, one minute from BUT, from Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u198	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The comprehensive bill that has now been proposed must be accepted. It refers to various aspects of the development of the humanitarian policy of Ukraine. I just want to remind you that there's also education here. And this, for example, is what you ask every schoolboy today, every teacher, whether they approve of what they were given in a month and a month and a month and a half, and they say you're going to have five, six exams and it's going to be every day. And the abuse of children! What's that, politics?Oh, my God! Is It Headless? Children and teachers and parents say that it is headlessness. This is why it is right here in chapter V: “The Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports to improve and create a single system of evaluation” and so on. Keep going. Adam Ivanovich, to you. Is there another language available in Russia? I request that there be a decision of the Constitutional Court on the application of Article 10 of the Constitution. Do it, Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u199	Yes, the rule says it can speak in a different language. Yes, please, Katerina Samolik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u200	Thank you. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine proposes a given decision, a draft decision to send for work. What are some of the reasons? Well, first of all. Why make a list of drafts that are already under consideration. See how the question is: To ensure the adoption of draft laws in Ukraine. Who will provide it? It is with you that we must provide for tourism, for general secondary education, which is already regulated by legislation and so on. Next. Here comes the reform of the governance system, we write: the creation of a separate government body with language issues at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And there's a lot of, a lot of comments. It seems that for a couple of decades it should be a state program -- it needs to be cleaned up. What you're looking at is clean it up. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u201	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u202	But clearly, the decision has to be substantially reduced so that it actually has the nature of the parliamentary hearing recommendations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u203	Yes, please, Yavorowski, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u204	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I'm addressing our voters first, and I want to explain. This is the second reading of this project. The committee prepared the first one, and there were certain remarks on his lips there and so forth. We've got it all figured out. I called this number: By April of the month, by April 7, no more remarks were made. As a result, I turn to those who want to be processed. Why don't you make some changes? Why are you just talking about it here? That's why I don't know what we're supposed to do on the committee -- we've done everything. We think that everything is done in very normal, intelligent, absolutely. It's a collective effort. It's not my job, Yavorowski. That's why I don't know. How do you feel about pre-processing? Where are your comments? Where are your suggestions? Is it just to talk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u205	Yes, the discussion is over. I'm voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The Strategy for the Humanities Policy of Modern Ukraine." [[Registration number 8364]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:32:50]] For 106 Not accepted. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 0, BUT – 53, "Our Ukraine" – 30, the Communists – did not vote, "Reforms" – 20, the People's Party – did not vote, non-fractional – 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u206	What are they? There is no such thing in the Rules. Matvienka, microphone, please. Unfortunately, there is no such thing, but Matthew has a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u207	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Adam Ivanovich, I'd like to speak to you about the conduct of our meeting. The faction has the right to give a word to someone by the faction manager or his deputy. And then you have to be guided by this, who asked you to do so. If there's no such request, to give a word to someone from the faction, I think it's a little disrespect to the factions on your part. So I'd like you not to show any more of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u208	The thing is, I thought you authorized Yuri Anatoliovich, he said he was from the faction. So come on, I'll always be suspicious of the faction of our Ukraine, and I won't give a word to anyone without permission to direct the faction. I was just working on trust, so I'm sorry. There are no other claims yet. We are considering a draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Health and Recreation of Children and Young People. [[pre-worked version]] [[Registration number 8144]] The rapporteur is the secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Nadjonov Andry Mihajlovich. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:35:00]] For 225 Offer supported. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u209	Honourable deputies of Ukraine! In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the drafting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the health and rest of children and young people. At its meeting on 20 April 2011, the Committee finalized a draft of the relevant decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, submitted by Ukrainian national deputies Kostenek, Volkovi, Suslový. [[No.8144]] The updated draft recommendations for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine were substantially reduced, in particular by removing standards that are already included in the current legislation of Ukraine. The committee proposes to adopt a revised draft regulation on the above-mentioned recommendations on the basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u210	Thank you. Have a seat. If you are willing to participate in the discussion, please sign up. Please, Stoyan, Faction Party. Behind him is Samilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u211	Dear colleagues! Well, we actually have this subject coming up in the summer when the kids started getting better. Since May 20, the children’s health has begun, and they would certainly have to do the benefits and passages, the benefits, and the benefits, and much more. Well, in principle, you can listen, of course, to the recommendations, then something else, just before winter, we'll solve this issue. Actually, I think, Adam Ivanovich, that we need to adopt a law once and for all that would make the benefits a condition for the recovery and rest of children. We did our time, I remember as a deputy, I made every year, before the new year, Catherine Samuelk made such proposals. And we passed these laws, but somehow they were of a one-year nature. So maybe it would be better, Adam Ivanovich, to entrust the Committee of Humanities or the Committee of Youth with a serious law that would forever, well, not forever, for many years and legalized these procedures, because, in fact, here and transport, here and nutrition, here and medical treatment. I’m not talking about the cost of traveling today, which is that parents are unlikely to be able to get their children to rest. So let's maybe do this: we'll do, really, parliamentary hearings, if we have some more time here that allows this to happen, we'll make recommendations that are serious, and we'll make recommendations to draft a law that would, well, legitimize what I'm saying. I support the need to hold such parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u212	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Behind her is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u213	Thank you. I want to fill my colleague with honor. To remind you that on February 9, parliamentary hearings were held. Before that, committee hearings were held. Three committees were held earlier: health, youth policy, science, and education, where we have considered all these issues. I would like to remind you that this is such a pleasant exception when we consider issues related to the recovery of children at the beginning of the year. The faction of the Ukrainian Company did not vote in favour of the draft parliamentary hearings that had been presented earlier. I'm looking at a draft decision on parliamentary hearings, and I can see that it's pretty well worked out. I just want to make some warnings. In my time, I was also dealing with the issue of child recovery, and a little bit of it is getting tired that we've been writing down for 10 years about the adoption of the State’s program on child recovery, that we have to figure out how many children we have, on. The rest of which should be taken by the State. We're talking about creating this, you know, records of all health care providers. The need to create a file for all health facilities. Also, not for a year do we talk about it, and we record it again in parliamentary hearings. We also need these points that relate to what we need to do. The pride that our nation is proud of is the Artek MDC and the Young Guard, and we need to develop a really separate state program where we can predict these children's health clinics as a training laboratory that's not created in any country of the world, and we have. It's a faction, actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u214	Okay, thanks. Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u215	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, sooner or later, we are considering this bill. We considered, on February 9, we had a hearing. Who doesn't remember what date today? The middle of May. Is it at the right time? I don't think so. We have to record that the right of citizens to the health and rest of children and young people under the Constitution of Ukraine are not being sufficiently implemented today. Is that so or not? Do we have to find out if all of us are satisfied? Obviously, we have to make a statement. We're passing a statement, but we're writing that the school graduates' disease rate is 80 percent of graduates have chronic diseases. And this year these diseases will be added, because the exams gave the kids, they get nervous all the time. Where do you get the money for your homework? Thirty-eight choices! And how many stitches you've got! And who are the firms that are now multiplying these problems? And, dear friends, I'm looking at the tasks that these hearings are about: to develop, approve, develop and approve the target programme, and -- and no cost -- what we now have behind this decision to make changes to the State Budget is just as friendly as you are now voting in an anti-constitutional way on the road fund to give yourself all you need, and to control yourself, you don't have to vote on Parliament, you have to vote on children exactly the same. That's why I'm going to vote yes, but the content of the document is extremely ill-prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u216	Do other unregistered factions not insist? I am voting on the adoption of the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on the Health and Recreation of Children and Young People. [[pre-worked version]] [[Registration number 8144]] Please vote. [[13:42:43]] For-286 It's been decided. Let's move on to the section "To review with the proposals of the President of Ukraine." The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving Publication Orders on State Procurement is under consideration, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6554]] Report to President Miroshnichenko. From the Yavorowski Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u217	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On March 15, 2011, the President of Ukraine returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with his proposals, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving Publication Orders on State Procurement. But the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice suggested that the President apply the veto to the law, since the individual provisions of the law do not conform to the rules of the Ukrainian Master Code, according to which the State supports competition as a competition between the operators, which ensures their own achievement of certain economic advantages. The adoption of the law will result in higher prices in the market for publishing products, poor use of budgetary resources, create conditions for corruption in the area of budget management, and do not comply with Ukraine’s international obligations and with the position of international organizations on the inadmissibility of unwarranted expansion of the number of goods, jobs and services that will be purchased on non-competitive terms. Therefore, it is proposed that the general order of purchase of printed products be laid down on a government basis. The President has vetoed, and I urge you, Your Honor, to support the President's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u218	Yes, have a seat. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u219	Dear fellow voters, distinguished fellow national MPs! To be honest, there is nothing I can understand about the situation that has arisen. I'll explain to people who understand who are listening to us, it's very simple. Today, there is such a concept as government procurement, that is, for socially important literature. Some funds are being allocated from the budget. This book comes out -- whether it's an artist or a documentary -- and it's distributed itself, and the state itself distributes this book into all the libraries that are in the libraries in the schools. All right, dot. No copy of the book of government procurement is available. I'm saying this before you have to understand why in that market that the President isn't talking about today, I understand very well that it's someone from the President's Department, someone from the lawyers who wrote it, completely without understanding the situation. That is why we today have such a poor presentation of the Ukrainian book on this market. Because, I say again, it's all there. It's very good that she goes to the library and stuff. What did the Cabinet of Ministers bring in, the Cabinet of Ministers himself? And I want to remind you that this bill is submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill is accepted without notice by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine and even the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What are you talking about? When a government order was made, I remind you, all the books went, they ran in libraries, they filled out libraries, and that's okay, that's right. After that, the Cabinet of Ministers introduced the bill itself to allow the person who published the book to use the form, as it were, and to release the book that would go to market. I think that's what this is all about. The state loses absolutely nothing. I'll remind you again. The whole list that was, why was it imposed? If we don't get through the veto, if that's the position, then there's nothing to talk about, nothing to accept. Because all these things are already there, they're accepted. Because of that, I can't understand why it's being said that there's going to be a decrease in competitiveness, or it's going to get bigger in the market. Because books and books will go to market, by the way, even cheaper because they are already ready. What's going on here, I can't understand. Why did the President's administration actually oppose the proposal of the government itself? Please, most of you, take a look at this situation, and I said everything I had to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u220	Dear colleagues! I don't have any questions for you, for example, so we're going to vote on the President's proposals. Since the PIC didn't agree to the President's proposals, we'll be in touch with you. It is the President's first proposal, in the chapter of the first law that came upon the signature, in paragraph 5 of paragraph 2, to delete the words "without a procurement procedure". I ask you to support the President's proposal, we vote. [[13:48:49]] For 242 The President's proposal is supported. The President's second sentence, paragraph five, to supplement paragraph five with such a sentence that "the selection of the public procurement contractors is carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement," please vote. Vote. [[13:49:19]] For 242 The third sentence of the President of Ukraine, section 4 and delete, please vote in favour of the proposal. [[13:49:42]] For 239. The President's proposal is supported. Thus, my fellow Members, all of the President's proposals we have supported, I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving the order for the issuance of publishing products on public procurement terms, taking into account the President's proposals]] Please vote. [[13:50:19.]] For 249 The law is passed. We are discussing the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 11 January 2011. [[Registration number 4071]] The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Defence, Možarovsky Vladimir Mikolajovich, of the Kuzmuk Committee, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u221	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, December 21, 2010, passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but the President of Ukraine is not signed, proposed to be finalized and reconsidered. The proposals made by the President of Ukraine relate, firstly, to the arrangements for contracting students from the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence military and teaching institutions who are preparing for the interests of other military formations. It is proposed that a contract be made between a student and a state represented by a military authority of the Ukrainian Armed Forces or other military formation. Secondly, the President of Ukraine proposes to refrain from making changes to part of article 25, which provides for compensation for the cost of maintenance in military educational institutions, namely: officers who are released from military service within five years of completion of the training due to the termination of the contract. Secondly, persons of the military, sergeant and senior staff who are admitted to the service under the first contract in the event of its termination during or after the completion of the training in the educational parts. The Ministry of Defence supports the proposals of the President of Ukraine in terms of reducing the attractiveness of military service, introducing additional compensation rules will further exacerbate the image of military service. In our view, the return to improved maintenance costs is only appropriate after improved financial security for military personnel. Additional costs related to the incorporation of Presidential proposals into the law are not foreseen. Therefore, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u222	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a question? Well, sign up if you have any questions. Yes, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u223	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister! I have a question like this. If we take the President's second amendment into account, we have military personnel, as stated in paragraph ten, in part ten: "military personnel, except for members of the military sergeant and the chief of staff, admitted to military service, who are released from military service within five years of completing their studies in higher military institutions. But there's only one left. and here are the members of the army and the sergeants, and there are only students left when the contract is terminated. Why do we have such a different approach? In fact, the only basis is the question: Are funds being reimbursed or not being reimbursed? Clearly, then, they may not be. They've already become military officers, and they've been cadets on their previous status. Do you understand my question? Why do we do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u224	I want to make it clear that the current law is designed to compensate the students for their tuition costs if they do not want to learn or carry out military service after the end of the school and the officers. I would like to emphasise that the current law also provides for compensation and for officers who are released after they have completed their studies for five years on the grounds of official inadequacy, according to the court's verdict that they will be deprived of military service in disciplinary order and that they will not comply with the terms of the contract. This law is in force, it is being applied. And it was suggested that today this law should be expanded to include officers who graduated from the academy, higher military training institutions of tactical and operational strategic level. And in addition, including this, we have proposed extending the law to military service employees on a contract basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u225	Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u226	Wait a minute, I want to speak to you personally. There was always a sense of tragedy in the family when the child did not serve in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and that was indeed true until recently. You impressed me, you humiliated me by what you said about the unattraction of military service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Please tell me, if you're a man who works in military service, you say such things, what can everyone else talk about? What kind of attraction? You come with me to meet my Hersonian, and you'll see your parents come from all over the country and ask that the army is the only one who can save a man from immorality and help him to find something. And they ask: "Please negotiate for the child to go, whether it's for the contract or.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u227	I'm sorry, I may have misapplied in this case, but I understand the meaning. The point is that the law does not apply only to military service officers. First of all, the law applies to officers who, at government expense, sometimes end one, two, three. And after completing the second, or third, U.S.U., with diplomas today and specialty, they are eventually released from military service. Of course, these processes need to be regulated. Moreover, not Ukraine alone today has such laws. On the contrary, we have the very soft laws of today. Even the former republics of the Soviet Union have long passed the law: both Russia and Belarus and other countries of the former Soviet Union. And what I meant by the attraction of the service, if necessary, I can explain. Maybe it's a bad word. Maybe it's a bad word. It's also a lack of financial security, and the cancellation of some of the benefits, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u228	Thank you. Got it, I think. In fact, it is not as prestigious as it used to be. That's understandable. Have a seat, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. The committee is Kouzmuk Alexander Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u229	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Your view for ugly consideration is proposed by the Supreme Council on December 21st with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since January 11th of this year. Two proposals were made by the president. The first is to refrain from making any changes to part of article 25, leaving it in its original form. The Committee on Defence and Security, in an effort to take this proposal into account as far as possible, concluded that part of article 25 of the existing law provides for the provision of compensation for students and officers who are released from military service within five years of completing their studies in higher military educational institutions. At the same time, the law does not provide for such compensation by members of the orderly and senior staff. This is also true of the contractors we speak of, who were trained in the higher military educational institutions and training centres of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The proposed editorial adds only one category to the current edition of part of article 25 of the tenth, and takes into account the requirement for military service after the completion of the training or foresees compensation for the costs incurred by the State for their maintenance during their studies, which is a logical extension of the already in force law. The above-mentioned edition is agreed upon, supported by the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority. In the second sentence, the President proposes to establish in law that one of the sides of the contract for military service, which is made after the completion of the training, is the State on whose behalf an authorized authority of military administration or other military formation is acting. The committee fully supports it. On the basis of the foregoing, members of the committee unanimously recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a law taking partial account of the president’s comments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u230	Yes. No questions? There's a question. Sign up. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u231	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, I would like to hear from you the answer to the question that I asked the deputy minister, you remember. That's the first part of the question. And the second part of the question. How, in view of article 35 of the Constitution on free education? Do we not violate it? And haven't we written enough that this is about reeducation or extra education? What it is is, somewhere to show the limit that the state has fulfilled its obligations. This is already an additional commitment made by the contract between the State and that person. So that it doesn't have any lawsuits on it and everything else that's there now. And there are such lawsuits. And there are such questions. And the third question. Please correct what has been said. Because I'm kind of embarrassed when they say it's an impeccable military service. A prestigious service to loyalty to Ukraine! Honey! And I ask you not to humiliate the military service and its prestige in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u232	Yuri Anatolyevich, we invite you to join the army.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u233	Honorable fellow workers! And all of you. There's no attractive and unattractive, there's no prestigious and impeccable. There is the Father’s service, which every military official makes an oath of allegiance to the Ukrainian people. And a dot. Another issue is that an adequate state should motivate conditions, noble conditions for military service. Yuri Anatolyevich, we speak to you in one language. Your first question. You got it right. Why Discrimination? Why an Officer? Coursent? If he has for some reason stopped his education or fled the service and refuses to serve, why does he pay the State back money for his education, and a contract sergeant who practically receives the same education, he doesn't pay back? Therefore, our committee asks for the support and guidance of order and justice. The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u234	It's all clear. Dear colleagues! I'm continuing the session until the decision is made. Sit down, Alexander Ivanovich. Sit down, Alexander Ivanovich. Yes, dear fellows. Alexander Ivanovich, sit down. There are two proposals from the President. The committee agreed, one agreed, the other agreed in part. I'll explain the rules to you. If we accept, in part, only the President's proposals, we need to vote in favour of the law at least 300 votes. If there are no 300 votes, there will be no law. If we don't agree with everyone. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u235	No, no, it can't be. Read Article 135 of the Rules, this is the law, and it says so. So here we go: the President's proposal is being voted on. I'll put it to a vote. Yuri Anatolyovich, read me, I'm telling you right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u236	It's all right in the Rules. It's all right in the Rules. 135 articles. President of Ukraine. The first sentence is included, so there is no need to put it to the vote. Although let's set it up, because it's just a proposal from the committee. I'm putting the President's first proposal to a vote. The committee counted it. Please be supportive. It's a new edition, but it's through the committee again. [[14:06:34]] For 252 Supported. The second proposal of the President of Ukraine is part of the committee. But I'm putting this proposal by the President of Ukraine to a vote. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m0.u237	Not in part, in whole. [[2:07:03]] For 245 Counted. Thus, honourable colleagues, since both proposals by the President of Ukraine are taken into account, 226 votes are sufficient to pass the law. I put to the vote the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service, taking into account the President's proposals. [[Registration number 4071]] Please vote. [[14:07:43]] For 257 The law is passed. At this, my dear colleagues, I declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council closed. At 16 o'clock we're going to dinner.
