ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:32]] There were 425 national deputies registered in the session hall. Honourable National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council at the opening ceremony of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion of the convening of the sixth meeting of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. [[Applause]] Organisation Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov and members of the government, Head and Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on Civil Criminal Matters, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Auditors, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopopol Committee of Ukraine, Head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the Diplomatic Representation of Foreign States, Other Officials. [[Congrats]] Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion was declared open.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u2	Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! Today is the birthday of the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Mr. Golovin Anatolia Sergeiovich, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Tsushka Vasil Petrovich, National Deputies of Ukraine, Mr. Mikoli Fedorovich and Mr. Petruk Mikola Mikolaiovich. [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] Please welcome the nominees and wish them good health and productive work. [[Applause]] Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I welcome President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! Welcome, everyone, to the beginning of the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A few words I'd like to say at the beginning of the Supreme Council's 2011 work. First of all, what I'm saying is that we're going to have a very intense job, and the steps that we're going to take with you, they're going to be productive, and maybe historic. The Ukrainian people will give an assessment of these steps. Working together, we will continue to reform legislation, which will enable Ukraine to finally take a course towards modernising our society, to formalize its relations with the European Union. This means that Ukraine will become stronger, new jobs will be created, the work of power will be more stable, the living standards of our citizens will rise. Since mid-2010, we have managed to stabilize the situation together, including in power, consolidate all its branches and work together on the basis of trust and understanding. I am convinced that this practice will be preserved in 2011. In the face of a global economic crisis that has not yet come to an end, only a policy of profound reforms aimed at modernizing the country can ensure Ukraine’s further development. This is evident to all without exception from the world’s discussions about the ways and parities of post - crisis development. I would add another important conclusion: the crisis has shown that there are no ideal models or models that can be replicated blindly. The times of literal copying of someone else’s experience have gone back in time with past stability. Each country will be successful when it can find its own unique path of reform and further modernization, using all the useful experiences of other countries that are effectively adapted and perceived by society. It's a very difficult task for us to get into the circle of developing countries, find and go our own way and methods, be modern, competitive and strong. That's what social innovation is all about. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2010 reform course has been announced, with the aim of modernizing Ukraine deeply and comprehensively. The idea of change is supported by all the citizens of our country. The Reformation course was brought together by the majority of the People’s Chosen Ones in the Supreme Council. Working on concrete plans to implement the main pillars of the reforms has taken a lot of time and energy. In the year that has passed, we have been able to take a number of important steps, together with you, to reform the economy, the system of our state. But in advance, without exaggeration, there's a huge amount of work to be done. Today, we have to talk first of all about providing an administrative, political, social and, most importantly, legislative framework for reforms. This is the main challenge and challenge in 2011. In 2010, we took the first steps in reforming government. Gradually, from the reform of power, we will move on to reform of the entire political system by applying the mechanism of the constitutional assembly. But it's all about time. The political precondition for reform must be the stability and close interaction of branches of government, constant communication and a broad social dialogue, the further development of the principle of the distribution of power, the strengthening of the role of its judicial branch. At the same time, we must do everything we can to increase the effectiveness of parliamentary work and the exit of political forces from a state of opposition. That's why you need a national round table, a business conversation with opponents. Today, I advise all political forces to postpone corporate interests and start a constructive dialogue focused on national interests, not on their own ambitions. Next. The social basis for reform is a very complex task that we all have to work on together. Protecting the weak and vulnerable members of our society is our moral and political duty. Among today's uncertainties, we need to make sure that the social security system is firm and that it meets the requirements of appropriate social standards for our citizens. Perhaps not all decisions will be made on the first day. I do not rule out harsh criticism and dissatisfaction, but I am deeply convinced of one thing: the practical results of reform changes for entrepreneurship, further deregulation, the creation of new productions and jobs in construction, in the social sphere, in the pension system, in health and education, will soon become our answer to opponents and to the unwelcome. We have to do everything we can to make sure that people, not talk, but feel in their everyday lives that reforms are being done for them, for the sake of our children, for the sake of the future country. Our joint task is to make the necessary reforms as less painful as possible for society, to prove in practice the effectiveness of our fight against corruption at all levels. So the answer to today's problems is in the success and social effectiveness of reforms. Dear colleagues, this room has always worked and worked, and now nationals with different political views. Is it true that different political views are necessarily opposition and hostility? I'm deeply convinced that we need to turn the page forever. Politicians can certainly have different views about ideology, political order, or economic politics. But there are problems that have no parity: poverty and unemployment, inefficient economy, unreformed armed forces, poor hospitals, schools, corruption. And the solution to these problems is the common state affairs of all without excluding the political forces that consider themselves patriots of their country. I underline: all without exception. That is why we must be united by the ideas of deep economic and social reforms, the modernization of the country, the creation of an effective system of national security, and the strengthening of Ukraine’s authority in the outer arena. We need to work together on an effective formula for cooperation between all political forces. And those who do not share it and who do not find the strength to join in the work together for the future of our nation, do not hesitate! That is why I appeal to all of you people’s deputies: let’s go together for Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u4	Honorable national deputies and guests and invited by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the floor is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u5	Dear President, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Today's participation in the opening of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the State of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, the presence of members of the Cabinet of Ministers led by Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov, the leaders of the legal system, the judicial branch of government and local self-government is far from a traditional testimony to the beginning of the new political season in the country. This is clear evidence that all state authorities are fully, I stress, fully aware of the unique importance of the tasks that must be addressed in the near future and the shared responsibility for the coordinated work to achieve the tangible positive results that our people have already expected. So when we begin the session, we need to see clearly all the elements that will isolate its meaning and build the logic of our actions accordingly. I believe that these six months will determine not only the fate of the country but also the political future of each of us. 2011 is the year of the 20th year of the sovereign Ukrainian state. Of course, this period was not devoid of meaning. But this date is the most important stage in the state-building process, if you want, a crucial time, given the history and previous attempts to create a sovereign Ukraine, which is known to have failed and known for what reasons and under what circumstances. Since then, the challenges have not changed. What is more, they're getting worse, they're getting new dimensions. The country is tense. The people paid a huge social and even moral psychological price for independence. Partly killed is the belief in justice, including social justice, in human solidarity. Answers to questions that are far from simple are urgently needed. How do we reconcile the idea of equality with reality, the giant spread of society? How can we prevent wealth and its bearers from taking over power? How to form a civilized relationship between capital and the social community, and what's important is to let people come to their senses and protect them from the consequences of previous market relations, to correct the apathy and cruelty of the social atmosphere, to establish national solidarity and justice. The government should practically become a nation’s minister, and a sense of justice must be achieved in real measure. Without the help of the State, a single citizen today is unable to cope with his problems that are not caused by him. Thus, we need to make a meaningful assessment of the marginal statehood, without dipping into the long-standing Ukrainian self-existence, until self-eating, and enter into practical systemic reforms. Reforms, as a viable alternative to social malice, are reformed, not only of relevance but also of social, moral conviction. Reforms are being discussed by all, and more and more. It's a key word in the lexicon of politicians, but say, who offered active, including brain work to get the country out of a difficult socio-economic situation? Who has actually outlined and proposed their vision of reforms and insists on making far from simple transformations? President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. Banking today is the center of reformism, which should be welcomed and supported, especially by the Supreme Council. Who doesn't agree, at least don't bother. [[Applause]] Predicting the reaction, we learned to criticize, but we did not learn to live by the principles we proclaim. In general, criticism is a slave habit, and accordingly calls for a paradise in Ukraine are turned into hell. We can, fellow believers, have such a saying. [[Dear Colleagues, Calmly]] There is such a saying that one man spent his entire life, or year, indignant about his boss, and he did not know about it. Accordingly, calls for a paradise in Ukraine are turned into hell. We can create an event, more precisely a conflict, not a life, and never have we learned much art to make life. We are enough to fight, and the country, more than ever, needs work today. It takes a new turn, a new course, and a new timeline to prevent the movement from going back. We need to show the ability to catch up with the world. That is why, during this session, the Supreme Council should play an extremely important role in implementing reforms, and then become a decisive part of the country's political system, not an official part in covering up long-standing social and economic problems. To this end, every national MP is obliged to raise the profile of his professional, political, moral, and intellectual responsibility. The period “to live high and to think modestly and to act beckon” should be transformed into an age “to live modestly, to think and to act high”. Without that, we cannot expect social support, in turn, without it there will be no real reforms in Ukraine. I will now take a few points related to the practical work of the Supreme Council at this session. Thesis one. Legislative provision of reforms. Ukraine is the epitome of such a complex set of political, economic, social, cultural, ideological and other problems that it is not systematic to address. It's a waste of time, power and government finances. This will finally kill the state. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is preparing 117 reform bills for Parliament. Apparently, in addition to the 136 draft laws already registered in the Supreme Council. In view of this, I see the need to define the sequentiality and sequence of consideration and implementation of the proposed laws. In this regard, the proposal for a joint meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is noteworthy. This is because our laws have lost the halo of holiness. But what kind of halo, if not the law, is at least 3-4 changes to it?Oh, my God! For meditation. Since August 24, 1991, 886 laws have been passed in Ukraine and 2,000 174 amendments have been adopted. Against this background, there are constant appeals about the lack of legal regulation of one or the other areas of our lives. And it turns out in practice that two dozen articles have been published for the European Court of Human Rights to cover almost the entire life of the members of the Council of Europe, and we are under 90,000 legal acts. From that point on, it also stimulates sub-legal acts, which often change laws and create an inequitable legal field for him. With this practice now, we have to finish. Thesis two. The Supreme Council has an immediate legislative response to corruption, with a focus on preventing corruption. In general, laws should be enacted to warn against corruption, so far as we usually have a verbal contest between those who no longer love it. Therefore, when they speak of this phenomenon, they feel that it does not apply to them. The Supreme Council is faced with the task of enacting a law initiated by the President. However, it does not permit the reproduction of the provisions of previous legislative acts that caused them to be repealed. It should take into account the position of the relevant international treaties of our country and the warnings contained in the expert evaluations of international organizations concerning Ukraine. Thesis three. It deals with an extremely sensitive land issue for the entire Ukrainian society. Its consideration after a broad public discussion must take place under one undeniable condition: giving unconditional priority to our national interests and to the interests of the Ukrainian people. Earth is, if you want, our last bastion. The same is true of pension legislation. Thesis four. On how to deal with the problems of the humanitarian sphere. They should be objective, delicate, surgically accurate. In practice, the draft laws for education, language, historical, religious, and educational work are a source of tremendous conflict - related stress. We need to protect the country from conflict on this soil, otherwise Ukraine will be divided. And the divided Ukraine does not stand. Let us keep in mind that the tree is nourished, not by flowers, but by roots. And for the people, the humanitarian sphere is also the root. I say, let's not try to cross each other, let's think about the common ground, not our own. And so we have enough hate, enough suspicion in the political environment, we shouldn't carry it all over the country. We need to be constructive and act with full thought. Thesis five. The importance of the proven position of the Supreme Council in political matters. Moreover, their very nature has changed. They have ceased to be purely legislative. They've become social. Because we are dealing with the need to sustain life itself. At this point of view, as I see it necessary, first and foremost, to approach constitutional reform. The Constitution should be a tool for the development of the country, ensuring its stability on the basis of a clear distribution of power: legislative, executive, judicial. In doing so, we must remember what wisdom has been tested for centuries: “The trickster in which each side is different in size than the other is the most unstable figure. ” The main thing to do is to restore the sovereignty of the people, including through a civilized electoral system. Democratic governance should be self - control. In the coming days, we must finally identify ourselves with the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine in the setting of the only terms for which the representative authority is elected. To those who are constantly drooling on the topic of early elections, I say, under Ukrainian conditions, this is a shock to the country. And for today's time, it's the biggest shock ever. Do you need them? My answer is no. Thesis Six. About Ukraine's place and role in regional and universal world exchanges. Today, these questions have come to a special attention. This has to do with two circumstances. First. Ukraine is now in charge of PACES. Since May, he has taken up the chairmanship of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers. In 2013, he will head the OSCE. In 2012, she and Poland were responsible for the European Football Championship. So we have a chance to make ourselves a leader of the region, because before that, Ukraine was modestly represented in the world. The second condition dictates the need to live in the province of Ukraine. Knowing that we are not neighbours of Europe, but neighbours of Europe. It is time to demonstrate Ukrainianism in international affairs. To ensure freedom of action, the right to be friends with whom we want, not just with whom we are allowed to be friends. From here, it's all possible for one. Of course, all of this is possible on one condition: when we share our Ukrainian home rather than waste it in Europe. We have already created a unique precedent for the Council of Europe when the ruling state itself is under monitoring. PARJE accepted more than 10 resolutions and recommendations in which she called for attention, and she did not persuade Ukraine to do what she wanted to do but everything she had promised. The result is known. A great deal of responsibility lies with the Supreme Council. I believe that the Supreme Council, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, is obliged to clearly define the work schedule for the preparation and adoption of laws, as defined in the Presidential Decree of 12 January 2011 on the Roadmap for Ukraine's performance and commitments arising from its membership in the Council of Europe. Consider, too, that the longer Ukraine is under surveillance, the more new claims are made in areas that were previously not considered as commitments. Why so? And because life is not in place, demands, standards and criteria for assessing democracy are increasing. And someone needs to test new approaches. Here we are, acting as such soldiers of democracy. Our inaction revolves around the country’s humiliation. The luxury of living in conversation is unacceptable. Dear National Deputies! The attitude of people to the long - awaited changes should keep us from continuing to spend energy on internal disputes and confrontations. The January 22 events associated with the Assembly Day events showed a low threshold for politicians to understand their responsibility for the consolidation and reunification of Ukraine. Party action was dissonant with government action. Each politician called for unity from his own field, claiming that Ukraine should unite under it, demonstrating its desire to steal Ukraine. It is good that the country does not feel the lack of ambitious personalities. The bad news is that generally correct slogans do not find a continuation in practical work. Now is the time to show the congregation in practical work. Power is not party colors, it's professional competence. Power must be the command. And we're all authorities, though different. We are simply obliged to do the great work that the President of Ukraine spoke of today. I fully support the President's proposal for a round table. We have to reject our ambitions, our claims to each other, go out for a new zero and start a dialogue, learn to hear each other and make consolidated decisions. By rephrasing the words of a prominent statesman in the early 20th century, I will say that this work requires a physical form of athlete, mother patience, and the courageous endurance of the early Christians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, let's thank the President of Ukraine, the government in charge of the Prime Minister, all those who participated in the opening ceremony. So, we're thanking you? Let's thank you, dear fellows. [[Applause]] There is an offer, honourable national deputies, to announce a 30-minute recess so that we can exchange thoughts, communicate with each other. At 11 o'clock, we'll resume our session. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the session room, we'll continue to work very hard. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs. I'm asking the factions to record the performance. Yes, Sergey Greenewecki, faction of the People's Party. Alexander Ephraim will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Last year's experience has convinced us that a solution to the crisis and modernization of the country cannot be achieved on an existing technology base and, most importantly, on the basis of an existing model of government. In order to avoid a financial catastrophe, the authorities have to meet the requirements of the International Monetary Fund by carrying out unpopular reforms, limiting budget spending and reducing social guarantees. But at the same time, we have to look for our own ways to build a competitively viable economy. One such way is to pursue an effective regional policy. The crisis showed how fine the limit is, which distinguishes economically developed regions from depressed ones, and how easy it is for some to turn into others. At the same time, imbalances in the economic development of individual territories have increased, threatening negative political consequences. Poverty is a factor that fuels social and national radicalism. In this context, it is entirely timely for the President of Ukraine to introduce a new regional policy to combine the tasks of economic reform and the modernization of the country with that of regional development. The creation of a State Regional Development Fund along with the implementation of national projects, I think, should create new growth points. Unfortunately, Ukraine’s regional policy is far from being implemented in other Eastern European countries. We should not forget, too, that this policy has a significant external dimension along with its internal dimension. This is quite evident in Ukraine’s relationship with the European Union. The European Parliament's resolution of 20 January of the current year “The EU Strategy for the Black Sea Region” is a testimony. Regrettably, this rather meaningful document has given Ukraine only mention of the total number of Black Sea neighbours of the European Union next to Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia and the Republic of Moldova. While our nation has the longest coastline on the Black Sea, and 19 of the 40 Black Sea ports, unlike Russia, we do not even consider the strategic partners of the European Union. There is also a lack of Ukraine in energy supply sources and routes diversification projects. Instead, the Nabucco pipeline, the combined natural gas transport projects to Europe, such as the AGRI project with the participation of Azerbaijan of Georgia and Romania, the development of terminals at the ports of the Black Sea and the Pan-European pipeline of Constanta Trieste. Another feature of the European Parliament resolution is the development of the Black Sea and Danube ports of the European Union. The European Union intends to combine its Danube strategy with the Black Sea. The Black Sea and Danube ports of the European Union are primarily Romanian Constances, Tulce, Galac and Braille, Bulgarian Varna and Burgas. So the competitors of the Ukrainians are Odessa, South, Illysi, Renee, Ishmael and others. The same attitude toward Ukraine by the European Union is due, among other things, to the lack of regional policy. For a long time, projects related to the development of Ukraine’s Danube, other coastal areas, remained out of central focus. The state was more aggressive about its own transit potential. Today, Kyiv faces the Black Sea and the Danube. A decision has been made on the continuation of the comprehensive programme for the development of Ukraine’s Danube for 2011. The Danube Corridor project has been approved as a national project. At the same time, the question arises as to how many projects envisaged for the construction of infrastructure in the Ukrainian Danube region are in line with the Danube Strategy of the European Union. The initiative to implement this strategy is largely in the hands of Romania, which is known to accept Ukraine's intentions to strengthen its position on the Danube without any particular enthusiasm. The answer is clear: Ukraine needs an active, long-term Danube and Black Sea policy that takes into account both its own national interests and the European Union’s policies in the region. The objectives of the Head of State must be strengthened by the basic law on the principles of State regional policy, which should determine the foundations of international cooperation in the regions, resource security and mechanisms for obtaining international technical assistance. Thank you for your attention. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u9	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, faction of the Party of Regions, please. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u10	Honourable Presidency, distinguished colleagues! On behalf of the Deputy faction of the Party of the Regions, I congratulate you on the opening of the eighth session of the Supreme Council. Last year was hard. However, power has created a good developmental target this year: political strife has ceased, governance of the State has been restored, the economy has stabilized, the country's GDP has increased by 4 per cent last year, and industrial production has increased by more than 11 per cent. The stabilization achieved has led to systemic changes. Reforms were long overdue, but there was no responsible leadership in the country that would have recognized that we could not just keep going. Yes, modernization may be painful, but power must tell the truth. We, the team of statesmen, are therefore thinking about the prospect of the country's development, tomorrow's human day, not looking back at the upcoming elections. I am convinced that the main trend in 2011 should be the open dialogue between the State and society on the objectives and methods of reform. We are ready for honest dialogue. Pension reform is one of the most sensitive to millions of citizens. Therefore, the people's representatives have a special focus on this issue. The objective of reform: to make the pension system as fair as possible and to make pensionable. A frank dialogue is needed not only at the expert level but also with society as a whole. One element of such dialogue is scheduled for 16 February – parliamentary hearings. Only after a serious, serious discussion will we make a decision. Citizens and drafts of the Labour Code, the Housing Code, are being set free. We are not hiding, and we are concerned that the proposed innovations are not sufficiently explained to people. Lack of information creates the basis for distorting the purpose of the bill, thereby causing the opposition to rise social tensions. The most effective remedy is honesty and openness. Among the other urgent challenges that we have yet to face are the dismantling of the divisive bureaucratic system, which is a source and carrier of corruption. To that end, the Supreme Council will have to adopt European anti-corruption legislation. In the context of administrative reform, State Service Laws, Central Executive Authorities, Amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Act will be introduced for consideration by the People's Deputies, and Reforms will be brought to the regional and local levels. It is not only the reduction of staff, but also the change in the form of citizens'relations with officials. A public servant is obliged to provide services at his workplace, not to sell them. Social reform, education and health are needed to improve the standard of living of people. The relevant laws will be reviewed immediately following their introduction to the Supreme Council. In this regard, I would like to recall that the timely adoption of the State budget has allowed for the full financing of social expenditures, including pensions, from the first days of the new year. The budget provides for a planned increase in the income of the population. On the basis of the country's economic development indicators, in the first half of the year, I hope that the Government will implement our agreements and revise the budget towards further increases in social benefits. Also on instructions from the Head of State, the Electoral Code will be drafted and submitted to Parliament. It systematizes the rules for holding elections in the country at all levels. It takes into account the national experience and wishes of the experts of the European Union. The practice of enacting laws for each particular election will be terminated. Dear colleagues, in mid-year, the Supreme Council should generally complete legislative reforms. I am convinced that the positive effect of their embodiment will be felt by people this year. This year is unique because for the first time in seven years, the country is not on the verge of another election. He took a break from a grueling political marathon. Today we have had the opportunity to conduct a systematic modernization of the country. We are obliged to meet with dignity the 20th anniversary of independence as a respected State to preside over the Council of Europe. I'm sure everyone understands the importance of the constructive attitude of the MP Corps. The Supreme Council is obliged to maintain its role as one of the country's intellectual reform centres. Parliament's work through dialogue and compromise will ensure a decent future for Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u11	Welcome to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist faction. Vladimir Moses will be next. Martinenko? Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u12	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! As the main tasks of the session are considered, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will come out of the following. Today, despite the global financial crisis, Ukraine is on the verge of a new crisis. First of all, it's a series of so-called reforms of pension, housing, labour legislation and land reform. All of these so-called reforms are being pushed by lobbyists from the national and transnational corporations of the International Monetary Fund and foreign nations. In doing so, the social interests, the needs of hired workers, peasants, teachers, doctors, scientists, cultural and artistic actors, military and law enforcement officials, as well as the few protected levels of the population, pensioners, veterans, disabled people, or the people of Ukraine, are brutally ignored by the great oligarchic capital and high-ranking activities. From the very beginning, the company has strongly opposed those changes to pension laws, the Labour Code and the Housing Code, which, contrary to the Constitution, significantly undermine the social guarantees of the population and directly lead to a decline in the standard of living. We also made it clear that we will not vote in favour of such bills. At the same time, the Company has proposed a series of radical measures at the legislative and organizational levels, whose implementation will certainly contribute to the strengthening of social justice and social guarantees for workers and the creation of mechanisms for a more equitable redistribution of social wealth. We believe that the problem of government deficits is not a problem for workers who pay taxes effectively, including the Pension Fund. This is a problem of the quality of government and the lack of state ownership for the most powerful and profitable strategic enterprises and sectors of the economy. Here's a situation where, for example, the 52 percent pension fund is made up of revenue from government and budgetary institutions that account for only 2.3 percent of all taxpayers. That's why, among the first steps of the bill, which our faction proposes to consider at this session of the Supreme Council, there should be a law on the return of property to the basic domain of the national economy to the property of the state. In other words, the Nationalization Act. We encourage citizens to take an active part in all those actions that will aim at upholding the rights and freedoms of our citizens. We also propose the adoption of a number of social laws that protect citizens from banking and financial abuse, guarantee the return of lost savings, determine the decent level of pensions, such as the increase in the minimum retirement age, grant free travel to people who have lost their jobs and are unemployed. We Communists are definitely against the sale of land. Today, we need to learn to dominate the earth, to manage it so that we are not a raw supplement for Europe or other countries, but a powerful nation that fully provides food for the internal market, and is conveniently implementing its products on the outside. You have to create cooperative farms, and you have to produce latifundists, and you have to turn peasants into beggars. Respectable Friends and Respectful Citizens! Another painful problem that Ukraine entered the second decade of the twenty-first century is the problem of national fascism. This is done with the deliberate political and financial support of national extremist organizations from the oligarchic clans, and that's what they openly claim. I want to remind you that playing with the Nazis in its own time has led to a world tragedy. Nationalists today. Nationalists, descendants of UN-OPA soldiers who swore allegiance to Hitler and the Reich, are getting green light on private channels and radio stations. Even on national television, they are welcome guests. This is a disgrace to a country that, in the anti - Hitlerian coalition, liberated the world from the Fascist invasion. This is a disgrace to Ukraine, which was the founder of the United Nations. We Communists today take a firm stand against this policy. And we want to hear an answer from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, why the delegation of Ukraine to the United Nations General Assembly last December did not vote in favour of a resolution condemning the propaganda of Nazism. That's why we bring the Supreme Council up to date and insist on increasing criminal responsibility for promoting Fascism and abuse of the memory of Soviet liberators. We also need to review fiscal policy -- and not give any more help to those areas that today are giving pensions to those who have been aided by fascists in the Great War. The National Fascist plague must be stopped today, and stopped immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u13	Mikola Martinenko, “Our Ukraine — People’s Self-Defense” is invited to the presentation. Get ready for John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, past the seventh, the session became open - minded for the Supreme Council, more specifically for the vast majority. Her job was to automatically push the buttons by sized MPs for the decisions they had to make. As a result, buttons are produced by laws that are just harmful to society. Consider a series with a pervasive Tax Code or a very Syrian State Budget for 2011. Sad to say, minority laws are ignored, rolled without discussion, or even reading. Here's an example: last session they were approved as many as 13 percent of all draft laws printed by the majority. When the Party of Regions was in opposition, 15 percent of their proposals were voted on. Simple arithmetic: democracy was 7 and a half times larger. The last session of the parliamentary minority even had to boycott the Supreme Council, a form of protest against the actions of the authorities. But the main thing in another is to ignore the interests of most societies that do not support power. On the other hand, both the government and the majority in Parliament have shown complete failure to respond adequately to Ukraine’s problems. The efficiency of the work of authority for humans is not even zero; it is negative. Citizens experience daily rising prices for everything and a worsening of life today. The so - called reforms involve the withdrawal of public spending and budget deficits from people’s pockets. Ukraine is steeping down in all international ratings from democracy to economic freedoms and the media. Sadly, our nation has gone back to the level of the African Third World. Integrating is a measure of power. European integration, like the announced visa-free regime with the European Union, has become an empty declaration. Both Europe and the United States express their concern over political persecution by the authorities. Ukrainian authorities. She carefully imitates deafness. As we go back to the work of Parliament, we need not just formalize the rights of opposition as a major test is the willingness of the authorities to take our proposals into account in the work of the Supreme Council. [[By the way, the appropriate bill of representative of our faction has already been filed.]] In particular, the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” is ready to participate in the improvement of tax legislation, as the Tax Code still needs to be regulated seriously. In April we propose to hold parliamentary hearings on this subject, and until then we will work out proposals. What country, besides banana republics, is there going to be a constitutional assembly around Parliament? What kind of Honduras is this? It's not even like that. Any changes to the Constitution should take place with the active participation of the highest legislative body. A representative of our faction passed an appropriate bill. Exclusion of the Supreme Council from this process can finally destroy Ukrainian parliamentaryism, move our state to the European periphery. The "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" faction urges the parliamentary majority to mention at last the interests of the state, support the decisions offered by minorities, in one simple principle – their benefits to the country. This session is followed by a series of so - called reforms: the pension, the Labour Code, and the Housing Code. But if they continue to endorse the asphalt collector’s methods without a proper discussion, without considering the minority’s point of view, it will be another step toward collapse. Then it is better not to do anything — less damage to the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u15	I invite you to address Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, the “BUT – “Fatherhood” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u16	Respectable fellow countrymen, fellow workers, a venerable predestination! The New Year began, and the New Decade began. According to recent developments in the world, there will be no peaceful life. There is still a lot of tension in Europe, and yesterday the well - being Mediterranean still burns, restlessly across the ocean. The deep causes of destructive natural rebellion, including terrorism, were named in Davos: unemployment, poverty, poverty, orphans, and mass poverty. Against this background, it is more dangerous and immoral than ever to see a gap between the rich and the poor, and the underprivileged actions of power in any country are causing anger, irritation and mass undirected simple. Obviously, without a broad dialogue with society, without returning to the real values of life for people, namely, honesty, justice, openness, the government will be sad everywhere, and Ukraine in the global world will not be excluded. The evidence of this is what started the reforms with us: crazy prices, dragon tariffs, school closures, hospitals, a new retirement age, and many other exotic money that beat people. It's derived from a derivative, not a fundamental one. People were waiting for another, for it is obvious that without radical, profound changes, the very economy of reform in other areas is almost doomed. For many of us, the country's economy, its structure is ordinary, and for professionals on the side, it's paradoxical. And we're really importing huge amounts of extremely expensive energy resources, and we're using the left part to extract and only to process raw materials, which we then export for copies. And then we import the high added value of our raw materials. Absurd. There will never be a rich country in the raw materials sector. Don’t look there for high wages, well - paying budgets, and full pension funds. The potential for the country’s prosperity to grow in raw materials has been exhausted. Under these conditions, the economy is doomed to collapse. We're not talking about this for the first time, but once again, many years in a row, both energy imports and exports, and the production of a mining and metallurgical complex under your control. The logical question is, when will the real structural reforms in this area finally begin? And the fact that such large, deep breakthroughs are real is evidence of China’s experience. We've known this country a long time ago in lanterns and kedars, and today it's the world's second economy. China’s Rhino Motorway is only 5 years old, and it is now the world’s top manufacturing and selling industry. And not just the highway. What are we today, not China? There's the only controlling party, the proper concentration of power. That's the cards in your hands. But let's do it. What's more, there are things that lie on the surface at all and are resolved by a moment, one stroke of feathers, and can have a colossal socio-economic effect right now. You can borrow it. There is a clear investment famine in the country. Don't throw it away, you need money and you need a lot of money. Thus, small tranches of the IMF are offered almost on their knees. And at the same time, in the last year, nearly $30 billion had fled from Ukraine. If this colossal money, consistent with the size of the national budget, were to remain here, of course, no one would salt it. These would be clearly investment costs that would go towards increasing wages, modernizing and expanding production, creating new businesses and hundreds of thousands of jobs, especially for unemployed young people. But what's particularly unfortunate is that it's basically your capital that left Ukraine. Why? Are you afraid of something or someone? Still, it's stable. Do you not believe in yourself? Do you not trust each other? In these circumstances, what wise foreign investor comes here with serious resources? Anyway, there's no longer any opposition to that, because it's the second year for power that's definitive. You don't give up on your predecessors anymore. It's up to you, and it's up to you now whether or not the hopes and expectations of the 46 million people will fall, listening to the promises that have been made in this room a year ago. The authorities have the right to forget, and the task of the opposition is to remind them. You've done it successfully quite recently. We're going to be no worse, and we're going to witness more than 130 of our draft social protection bills for our fellow countrymen: veterans, disabled people, Chernobyl, children of war, young people, and the real development of the country's economy. It's definitely gonna be hot.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u17	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u18	It will certainly be hot in this room, but the rest will not be given under the present conditions. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u19	Dear National Deputies! The factions are finished, I ask the secretariat for suggestions, comments that have been made in the speeches of the national deputies to prepare the relevant letters and assignments. Dear National Deputies! I suggest you consider the order of the day of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, the draft agenda for the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine includes issues that are prepared for consideration in plenary sessions, namely 243 bills. The second chapter includes bills that require committee work, such as 620 bills. A total of 863 draft laws. Also, respectable colleagues, the project you are proposing contains two plugins. Appendix number one contains a list of drafts that the committees, according to their previous consideration, propose not to include in the agenda of the eighth session. Given the fact that these bills are already included in other laws that have been adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine or have lost their relevance, there is no need to bring them to justice by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Appendix two contains bills that are being removed from the agenda by individual factions. The motive is usually political. In accordance with established practice, in order to find compromise, we agreed that we would address this issue in such a sequence. I'm going to put to the vote a proposal to approve the order of the day session, including all the questions that are included both in the main part of the draft agenda, and in the first and second additions. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports what I ask of you, Your Honor, we will thus confirm all the issues that have been brought before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in the process of addressing specific issues, each faction will be able to express its point of view. If this position is not supported, I will put to the vote first the part that does not contradict the draft agenda and consists of two parts: bills that are prepared for consideration and bills that need consideration. And then, if I make a positive decision, I'm going to separately put a proposal for plugins to the vote. Is there no objection? None. Well, then, dear fellows, may I have your attention? I first put to the vote a motion for approval of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the order of the day of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call without exception. Please vote. [[11:32:25]] For-95 The decision is not made. I now put to the vote the proposal for the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the agenda of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, without any addition. No first and second plugins. Please vote. [[11:33:00]] For 361 Decision taken. Now, dear colleagues, I am voting for the inclusion of Appendix One in the agenda of the day session, this is a list of the bills that the committees have concluded at the conclusion of their previous consideration not to include in the agenda of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the sixth vocation. Appendix number one. I'll bet you a vote to put it in the agenda. [[11:33:48]] For the The decision is not made. Now, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day a list of draft bills which, according to the proposals of individual MPs, have been removed from the draft agenda of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call. And a list of bills that are not included in the draft agenda for the eighth session, which are being considered by individual MPs. Please vote. [[11:34:35]] For-0 The decision is not taken. Thus, the distinguished national deputies, the order of the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are approved without additions, that is, within the limits of nearly 900 draft laws. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have approved the agenda, we do not need to discuss the approval of our meeting schedule for this plenary week. At the same time, those bills that are scheduled for consideration at this plenary week, and they were not included in the agenda, I would ask the secretariat to define a section in the preparation of the agenda: first, the inclusion of issues in the agenda, and then, as a result of a positive decision on inclusion in the agenda, we will have the opportunity to consider them in the next plenary session. Do you understand the offer to everyone? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Seed and Vegetables Act. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kaletnik Grigory Mikolaiovich. Why don't we look at it in a simplified way? Well, come on, then, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u20	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, is invited to consider this bill in a simplified manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, I am voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:36:57]] For the 220. Decision taken, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u22	Thank you! The bill has been drafted with the aim of bringing the provisions of the Ukrainian Seed and Gardening Material Act into line with the Law on Free Economic Activities and adapting it to the international requirements for the introduction of seed certification schemes in Ukraine, the organisation of economic cooperation and development. The bill amends 26 articles of the law in force and introduces more than 50 new rules and concepts. In addition to resolving organizational issues regarding Ukraine's accession to the system of class certification, economic cooperation and development, the bill has been passed by an international expert from France, Britain, the Netherlands, which has enabled Ukraine to join economic cooperation and development schemes. During the accreditation of the laboratories of the Ukrainian National Seed Inspection to the requirements of the International Seed Quality Control Association, this was also conducted by experts from Hungary and Germany. The harmonization of the bill with international organizations allowed Ukrainian seed producers to sell their products in 62 countries of the world that are members of the organization. The bill proposes to change the names of seed categories to those used in the legislation of the countries working under this scheme. The introduction of seed certification schemes in Ukraine opens the way for the native seed to seed markets in most countries of the world. The proposed amendments to the bill will help eliminate internal disputes between legislative acts. In particular, the proposed bill proposes to abolish the issue of a passport for the production and implementation of seed and vegetable material. This action will soon ensure the formation of the State Register of Seed Producers and Garden Material, and will reverse duplication – allow all seed producers who have appropriate licensing agreements and a material and technical base to enter the National Register of Seed Manufacturers and Garden Material into the appropriate one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u23	Yes, please, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u24	First. Seed production at the State Reserve Seed Fund is done on a competitive basis, as well as on an import basis. The formation of batches of commercial grain is prohibited, except in the case of force majeure. The decision to form the State Seed Reserve Fund is made in each case by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, the adoption of the bill by organizing the structure and functions of the State control bodies in the field of seed and planting, strengthening the requirements for cultivation, preparation, cultivation and trade in seeds will have a positive impact on increased production and quality of agricultural products. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations reviewed the draft law and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council's Apparatus, based on the first reading, does not object to the adoption of the bill as a basis. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. May I see the names of the national MPs? People's MP Krawczuk, Faction BUT, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u26	Kravczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." But I would like to ask the rapporteur that this law does not propose to extend the law to seeds and gardening material of genetically modified organisms and plants. What will be the way to control the import and export of seeds originating in genetically modified plants? So we suggest that we accept it in the first reading, but anticipate a mechanism for controlling genetically modified plants for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u27	People's Deputy Wonderland, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u28	Basil Wonder, Party of Regions. The honourable head, the honourable national deputies, considers the bill to be meaningful, appropriate, and especially timely. First, it adapts domestic legislation to WTO and EU requirements, which significantly improves Ukraine's external market prospects, and thus positively affects agricultural production. Secondly, the bill reinforces the requirements for cultivation, preparation, packaging and trade in seed and vegetable material, and optimizes the functions of the State control bodies in the field of seed and planting, which will also have a positive impact on the quality of agricultural production. And finally, thirdly, the bill corrects the question of the formation of a state reserve seed fund and the creation of an insurance seed fund that is of exceptional importance in the context of the global crisis, global warming of the climate on the planet of drought and non-fertilization, which some regions of Ukraine have encountered last year. To conclude, I would like to say that the bill has generalized and summarized all previous positive legislative work in this area, and I propose that the bill be supported and adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u29	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u30	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, this bill is one of those that activates Ukraine's activities within the World Trade Organisation and brings Ukrainian standards closer to EU standards. In my opinion, the implementation of article 10 of this project will be a significant step towards improving standards. Unlike the Act on Seeds and Gardening, it defines the authority of the central executive body in the field of consumer protection of standardization and metrology. It is equally important that the anticipated order of formation of batches of seed and grain under force majeure conditions. This will help to avoid further situations where seeds or seeds are sold out and fields are sown in nothing. In general, the bill is designed to satisfy the interests of the All - Ukrainian Society of Gardeners. By the way, in its resolution on the outcome of the round table last December, she acknowledged the shortcomings in the functioning of the Ukrainian seed market and the need to amend the Act on Seeds and Gardening Materials. So I think the bill is worth supporting in the first reading and thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, who else insists on speaking from factions that have not received or taken advantage of the opportunity to perform? I can't see. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to adopt a bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that this bill can be adopted as a basis. I then put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Seed and Vegetable Material Act, [[new editor]] [[11:45:35]] For 329 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We were about to consider with you the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Land Abduction, Land Lands, Other Real Estate Objects, which are located in private property, for social needs or for social reasons. [[about the 2012 European Football Championship]] At the same time, there is a letter from the national deputy Zac, the author of this bill, asking the Supreme Council of Ukraine to postpone the matter to the next plenary week in connection with the need for its reconciliation. At the same time, there is the conclusion of the committee of such a content that the subject of the legislative initiative should be restored to that initiative. Instead, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. Given the circumstances that have arisen both between the committee and the author and the author, I will put this proposal to the vote. Is there no objection? Is it about delaying consideration? What, what? Dear colleagues! Then, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support the proposal to postpone the hearing, we will consider it. Then we will consider the committee’s proposal, including the return of the draft law to the subject of the legislative initiative. Please, Roman Tuck, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You see, the question here is that only the name here refers to “Euro” and the bill is not related at all to “Euro”. I just want to remind all my fellow national deputies that we have adopted a separate Euro 2012 Act and, for example, objects, the Cabinet of Ministers has full authority to establish a list of objects that are problematic. So I would still like us to take this bill off the table, as the committee, the agrarian committee, has suggested. Thank you. And send the subject out for processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u33	Now. Dear colleagues. In order for us to decide whether to return to work, we need to discuss the matter and then make the appropriate decision. So that's the offer. The first proposal made by the author of the bill was to postpone his consideration. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support it, then we will consider it. I will be the first to put to the vote a proposal, in accordance with the Rules, on acceptance as a basis. If not accepted, then return to processing. That's the logic. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a motion to postpone the bill's consideration. [[Registration number 6405]] Please vote. On the postponement of the bill. [[11:49:01]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. So we're going to consider the question. Sergei Sass, microphone. You don't have to? We're considering this. I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote for this proposal. () [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg of you, dear fellows. Well, the question is obviously going to be about getting back, what we're going to be spending our time doing. Oh, well, that's what I mean. [[11:49:28]] For 178. Decision taken. Rapporteur of the Ukrainian National Deputy Zac Alexander Viktorovich, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kaletnik Grigory Mikolajovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u34	The important goal of the bill is to ensure that the Euro-2012 football championship is properly prepared for the successful and timely completion of the conditions for the construction, reconstruction and capital repair of stadiums and airports receiving the final part of the European 2012 football championship in the cities of Ukraine. The adoption of this law will contribute to a better regulation of social relations regarding the alienation of land, other immovable property in which they are located, whether privately owned or socially motivated, which in turn will result not only in the achievement of the above objectives but also in the maintenance of rights and legitimate interests, both private owners and society as a whole, in the process of implementing socially important projects that will require the alienation of land, other immovable property in which they are located, for social needs or for reasons of social necessity. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, we now have the floor of a co-reporter, head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u36	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues. The bill is, indeed, necessary. He was carefully considered by the committee. The bill proposes that social relations be better regulated with regard to the alienation of land, other immovable property that is located in private property, for social needs, or for reasons of social need. The bill proposed to exclude from the ransom the cost of damages to third parties caused by the alienation of land, other immovable property on which they are situated, for social purposes or for reasons of social need, does not comply with the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Code, in particular article 350, nor does it conflict with the requirements of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine as part of narrowing the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms of citizens. There are several other comments that have been made to the committee’s authors during their consideration. Therefore, in view of the above - mentioned committee, the proposed bill proposes that the subject of the legislative initiative be reinstated. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, please sign up to express your view of the proposed bill. Please log in. Yes, please, board. Alexander Cronvolenko, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u38	Dear friends, well, really, the issue is very serious and we need to change the Law on Land Disposal on Social Need, but not on this side, but on the contrary, throwing away all the nonsense out there, kind of to remove the land that is privately owned to create a park. One will be removed, the park won't be created, the other will be returned. So you have to radically change this whole law with greater respect for the rights of investors, renters and so on. As for the issue that you've decided to use for Euro-2012, you all know the scandal that is now. I think that, well, it would be pointless to look at it by February 4th, because there is a high probability that Ukraine will be deprived of the right to hold the Euro-2012. Therefore, the subject is irrelevant, and it will be used only for all kinds of abuses. And I'd like to give Roman the Tuck another minute so he can say his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u39	Roman Tchac.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u40	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, do you really remember that we passed this bill here a year ago? There are problems, but you don't have to work today, you know, to outsmart yourself. You see, that's the norm that's proposed today. The owner, who owns the land, for example, had a three - month warning period so far. Now we're reducing this term to 30 days. You can imagine going on a cruise. You're on your way, and you've already been court-martialed. The other one. The bill clearly sets out the authorities, which and for what purpose they allocate land — for needs and for needs. And there's a clear list. And for example. The bill states that the capital repair of the preschool facility already falls under the ransom. Next question. Missed benefit. Today, when the owner of the land will be appraised, this question, according to the Civil Code, is missed. [[Article 22]] This bill takes this away. So that's what we're doing to reduce the value of the land. Please tell us how this standard relates to the Euro - 2012 implementation. That's why we can't accept this bill. I want to remind you again. There's a profile law for Euro-2012. We've handed over a lot of credentials to the Cabinet of Ministers, and let him handle all these issues. I urge all colleagues to vote against it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u41	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT-Batychina faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Tomenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u43	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Well, first of all, I'd ask a colleague in a higher legislature not to joke, because someone's going to take it seriously, and I don't want us to be the cause of the scandal here. And we have so many scandals. No one will ever take the Euro away from us, it will be carried out. It's another matter of how it's done. So let's talk about how the Euro will be held. Strategically, of course, it is perfectly right to act either by land legislation or by basic legislation on the Euro. When we start to "fertilize" special laws, that's the wrong way to do it. Second position. I think we've matured before, and I, Vladimir Mikhailovich, have registered a decree that provides that maybe we should first look at what happened in the part where we gave the government the right to work without actually having any control over the use of the budget. So I happened to find out what government purchases we're doing. And I'm reading, for example, that we have, for the final part of the 2012 European Championship, a football offer to allocate the cost of building a helicopter site with a capacity of 10 landing sites with a passenger terminal with the capacity of 50 passengers in the village of Pekari in the Kanov region. That's about 3 million dollars. This isn't even about money, I think. What will football players do at Taras Shevchenka’s funeral? Will they fly a helicopter or fly out of here? And that's one example. By Lviv, I can tell you that for the purpose of building a stadium or a road there, so much land has been removed that on that land, I don’t know how many people are being forgotten! So I think, in this way, we should listen in Parliament to what has already been done, which has been purchased, whether there is a violation. If there's a violation, put it in the D.A.'s office, check it out, then move on. Because as soon as I hear the word “Euro”, my hand goes to write an address to the Attorney General. That is why I would like the euro to be for the people, not for the harm of the State budget. So I think we should send a bill to work on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u45	Thank you. I thought usually the first impulse should be implemented, because it is the most noble. Dear colleagues, no one insists on discussing this issue anymore? Oh, no? I therefore put to the vote the first motion for adoption in accordance with the Rules on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Land Disposal, Other Real Estate Objects, which are located in private property, for social purposes or for reasons of social necessity. [[about the 2012 European Football Championship]] [[Registration number 6405]] On the ground, please vote. [[11:59:30.]] For-0 Ladies and gentlemen, I now put to the vote the second sentence: to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to draft the bill. [[11:59:58]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the word to the First Vice Prime Minister. First Vice Speaker. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u46	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u47	I gave my wish for real.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u48	I would like to inform you that there has been a meeting of the Temporary Special Commission, which has considered a bill on amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine on the holding of successive elections of Ukraine's national deputies, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads. Registration number 7265. And the Temporary Special Commission, which worked in full composition, was all ten members of the commission, an absolute majority of the votes -- eight at two held -- accepted the proposal: to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 147, part 11, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to put to the vote now a proposal to consider a bill under registration number 7265, i.e. changes to the Constitution, today at the morning session. Please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. There's a first suggestion that, since we took a break at 10:30, we agreed not to take a break at 12 o'clock. [[Shall we vote?]] I'm asking you to vote that we don't take a break, as stipulated in the Rules, at 12 o'clock. Please vote. [[12:02:14]] For 281 Decision taken. Thank you. I would like to propose to vote that, in accordance with the requirements of article 147 of Part 11 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, we now consider the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine for the holding of the next election of Ukrainian national deputies, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads. Please vote. [[12:03:04]] For 285 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this: for the rapporteur, as required by the Rules, within 10 minutes, the answer to the questions is five minutes, statements from the factions, 15 minutes, and for the national MPs, let's make a deal, 15 minutes will be enough? Yeah. So we've agreed to do the right thing. Then the closing word, and we'll keep thinking. It's intense. The report is given by the head of the TSK, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u50	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs of Ukraine, distinguished voters! Today we have the opportunity to come to a final conclusion on the settlement of one of the important constitutional provisions, namely the election of all branches of government: the Parliament, the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local self-government bodies. Let me remind you of the main stages of this process. On October 19, last year, the Supreme Council, with 270 votes, supported the initiative of 230 of its colleagues to amend the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the holding of successive elections of Ukraine’s national deputies, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, village and city heads. This bill, registered number 7265, was incorporated into the agenda of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on its constitutionality. On 18 November 2010, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reached a conclusion: a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the holding of the next election of Ukrainian national deputies, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads meet the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7265]] I quoted this from the Constitutional Court. The next day, 305 Ukrainian national deputies adopted a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve this important national bill. Today, we have every reason to put the final dot and answer the questions that concern citizens of Ukraine: when is there to be another election of Parliament, President, Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local self-government bodies. Suggested changes to articles 76, 77, 103, 136, 141 and to Section XV "Transitional Positions". The Ukrainians answer these questions, and they focus mainly on four such important positions. First, the terms of office of the President of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the local councils and the rural, rural, urban heads are harmonized. For everyone, I remind you, a five-year deadline is set for ensuring the continuity of the process of exercising state authority and self-reliance and reducing the costs of the state budget for the elections. Secondly, there is a legal gap in the terms of the termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, district, city, village and rural councils, the city, the village, the village head. All of them have a five-year term — stress — only if they are elected in the next election. I mean, everyone who gets elected in the next election is still going to be re-elected in the next election. Thirdly, the elections are changing. In particular, it is proposed that on the last Sunday of March of the fourth year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should hold another election on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year. Presidential elections instead of the last Sunday of October are scheduled to be held on the last Sunday of March of the fifth year. It is also proposed to align the terms of the elections with those of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the terms of the successive elections to rural, rural, urban, district, district councils, rural, rural, city heads and to hold them on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year for the respective council or for the corresponding head, which is highlighted in the next election. And the fourth is what political passions are about. The date of the next election of Ukrainian and Ukrainian national deputies is set after the restoration of the Constitution of Ukraine as of 28 June 1996, in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 30 September 2010 to set the dates for the next election: the Supreme Council of Ukraine – the last Sunday of October 2012 and the next election of the President of Ukraine – is the last Sunday of March 2015. As I have already informed you, honourable people's deputies, today the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare proposals for changes to the current legislation in connection with the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine's decision on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine with the Constitution of the Constitution of Ukraine on the amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine since 8 December 2004, discussed a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the holding of the next election of Ukraine's national deputies, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, city heads and introducing it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Final Adoption of the Crimea. [[Registration number 7265]] Out of all ten members of the temporary special committee present, eight members of the TSC voted in favour of such a proposal, two members of the TSC abstained. I hope we're worthy, dear colleagues. We'll begin our eighth session with you. I believe that the decision of the temporary special committee will be supported by a session hall. At the same time, we will also set up a parliament and a society for effective work, at least for the next year, to solve the pressing problems of the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, please sign up for Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, if there are. May I have the names of the people's deputies on? Ruslan Knyazevich faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I thank you for pointing out that a few people really had a separate position and really didn't call them. But I can honestly say I'm one of them. And my position was that, unfortunately, we have a situation where this discussion that was three times in Parliament, and it was even somewhat more theoretical than practical, we were really hoping that it would be resolved within the walls of the Constitutional Court. But as for me, in his decision, the court did not decide it; rather, it raised a number of questions and put the situation on hold, let us say, in uncertain form. How do you feel about that decision at all, especially in its part where Transitional positions conflict with the main body of the Constitution? And as you think so far, the Constitutional Court has not been able to respond to the Central Electoral Commission's interpretation of their actions with regard to the election of national deputies. And it's been four months. Although the Constitutional Court Law itself provides for a more urgent consideration of the matter during the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u53	And once again, I've repeatedly been speaking from this rostrum, when I was announcing the results, I kept saying that there are really members of the TSC that are being held back. And Ruslan Petrovich Knyazevitch took this position all the time, and he confirmed it today. This is about your first statement. As far as your question is concerned, I'd like to put it this way. Ruslan Petrovich, although I'm not a lawyer, but I'm a law-abiding man, I respect and enforce the Constitutional Court's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u54	Alexander Blackwolf, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u55	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I have this question for you: Do you agree that if the Supreme Council is not now supported by two thirds of the vote, the next election will be on March 27, 2011. So in fact, less than two months. And according to the old law, to which the election was before, for a new one is unlikely to be acceptable. And the second question comes out of that. And why did you choose exactly these dates: October 12th, for the Supreme Council, although in fact you always chose in March, for the President, March, even though you had the winter to choose or fall, like that. I mean, it's somehow confusing, unprepared, and, frankly, it's not justified, as is today's consideration of the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u56	Thank you, Your Honor! I'm sorry you forgot the 1996 Model Constitution. And the 1996 Constitution, to which we returned in the fall of 2010, says that the last elections, sorry, the next parliamentary elections are held on the last Sunday of March of the fourth year of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the next election of the President is held on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year. And that's the answer to your first question: how do I react if we don't vote today? If we do not vote today, the current Constitution says that on the last Sunday of March the fourth year of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council for the Constitution is to go to the elections. [[And this is March 2011]] And if we don't change the Constitution of Ukraine, we're going to reduce the constitutional term.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u57	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u58	The President’s constitutional term, which will take place in October, on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year of office, will not reach nearly one year. That's why we're changing these terms, the last Sunday of October, which is 2012 because you and I were elected in September 2007. The president was elected in 2010, which means he has the last Sunday of March 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u59	Yes, dear fellows, I am in a hurry to settle the matter. If the defense of God, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, does not make a decision, the elections will be in March, but by law a new and very interesting one, so be calm in this regard. Well, I'm telling you to. Instead of trying to play each other, let us act responsibly. Andrew Schlell, "BUT is the Fatherland". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Adam Ivanovich, tell me, please, I think this is, well, a serious story going on in the session room right now. We only had one change to the Constitution, we had one vote with our hands, and people voted there our national deputies, and colleagues raised two hands. They counted it. I think this page is upside down, and we'll never go back to it. But I wanted today’s changes to the Constitution to take place honestly. So at least people who aren't in the room right now, their voices weren't counted, which would have been accepted in the change before. So that the deputies would finally come to the session room, and support their decision, and not their cards would vote in their absence. Because, more than that, a large part of the deputies did not even want to register in the session hall, and their cards are involved in the work of the Supreme Council. I mean, well, here, if you change the Constitution, it's the legal way, not the way it always is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u61	Andrew, I'm an atheist, you know that, but I want to say the following. God forbid there should be at least once a month in the session room as many national deputies as there are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u62	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, time is up. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions. At first, we agreed on five factions of three minutes, up to 15 minutes. And 15 minutes from the nationals. The people's deputies speak directly. I'm going to ask the factions to record it. Alexander Czervolenko, Alla Alexandrovska, Mikhailo Chechetov, Oleg Zarubinsky, Sergey Sobolev Now, please sign up, please, for the national MPs, so that we have a complete picture. Yes, please put your name on the board. Yes, there is. Alexander Czernovlenko is transferring the right to speak from the faction of Ruslan Knyazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u63	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I'm, frankly, the third time I'm speaking on this platform right now, and you know, I'm not ashamed that my position on him hasn't changed in at least half a year. The point is that, in fact, the obvious situation that is going to be made today would be the right decision, but it would be very desirable that such, really, as has just been said, things of value, such as making changes to the Constitution, and for its cadence, the Supreme Council of any kind can't be very much exhilarating that it's involved in such historical events as today, we've taken on in the most correct legal way. What is it? The point is that, despite the violent debates in Parliament, which, by the way, did not end, they started on a temporary special committee, they actively continued in the walls of Parliament, but we decided to transfer them to that qualified special-authorized constitutional body, which has just been authorized to decide such decisions, gently speaking, not entirely, so to speak, legal, and, in some cases, even political and legal decisions, which today's decision is. The point is that the Constitutional Court, which, according to the Constitution, was empowered by questions of exclusive constitutional jurisdiction, had to pay first attention to and come out of any of the legal impasses that we had come up with, as far as I am concerned, the two main points of this bill. The first and the main is that, after we have re-sented to the Constitutional Court in the interval between the first and second ballots, we have made some adjustments to the draft law and have completed it with certain transitional provisions. It was these transitional positions that happened, in voting, that essentially contradicted the very core body of constitutional change. Well, for example, we're talking about the term of office, according to the President for five years, and he's chosen on the last Sunday of March of the fifth year, and that's what the main body of the bill says. Although transitional positions indicate that this date is March 2015. Well, it doesn't take long to go to school to figure out that March 2015 is the sixth year of the President's term. And someone, and the Constitutional Court had to carry out such a constitutional arithmetic. If it's unconstitutional, at least it's a common arithmetic. And he had to fix us in this part. Just like the second position that raises a lot of questions about transitional positions, when we complement them with two additional points, where we set clear dates for the elections of the next Parliament and the President without removing them. [[Five minutes, they said. Three?]] Unless we delete the previous dates, which are still laid down in the Constitution in 1996. I no longer mention the shame that will remain on the body of Ukrainian constitutionalism the question that within four months the Constitutional Court failed to fulfil its direct duty and failed to answer the Central Electoral Commission's appeal to their actions in this situation. While this decision was to be considered as urgent during the month’s period. The court just doesn't look at it. So, dear colleagues, let's be constitutional about these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u64	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Prepare Michael Chechtchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u65	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, at the end of the time to end the chaos that was born, I remind everyone of the events of 2004. Today, people are again trying to hang on to their ears, mislead them, talk about allegedly wrong decisions, the election of the Ukrainian Parliament in the fall, the spring, the wrong date of the presidential election in the fall, forgetting that it was actually the orange events of 2004 that set a specific time frame for the President to take office in the spring. It was from the spring that a record of the real powers of the President of Ukraine began. It was the illegal dissolution of Parliament that changed Parliament's term of office in the autumn of 2007. It is from the fall that the time frame of reference for the real powers of the Parliament of the Supreme Council of Ukraine begins correctly. They do not want the national bourgeois factions here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to say that in order for Ukraine to be a strong State, a single State, we need a single vertical of power. And today, it is proposed that this vertical be built by appointing simultaneous local councils, simultaneous elections of the Ukrainian Parliament and simultaneous term of office of the President for five years. After all, it is time to end the chaos in electoral law. And that will be possible when the time of action of both parliament and local authorities and the President will be one and the same five years, and we can finally begin to develop the Electoral Code, what Ukrainian citizens expect us to understand is that the electoral rules for the local councils and for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and for the Ukrainian Supreme Council deputies are the same rules for holding elections throughout Ukraine. That is why I would like to support the proposal of the Constitutional Court. I would like to support our proposal to the Provisional Investigation Commission with you, and I invite everyone to vote in favour of these perfectly fair, reasonable changes in the Ukrainian Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u66	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u67	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, we can treat one another sympathetically or with an antipathy. Of course, we can respect or disrespect each other. It's our right. Of course, you and I can be sympathetic or antipathy to the government, to the governors. We can respect or disrespect members of the government and governors, local authority is also our right. But we, as parliamentarians of the Ukrainian people, have no moral right not to respect or love our people. Do not take into account the opinion of his people, which he expressed by a direct secret ballot! You know, when the people voted for the President, when the people voted for the Supreme Council, it was a direct secret vote. As a source and holder of power, the people gave the mandate of confidence to both the President and the Parliament for five years. The people are already learning about their lives, when they face elections every year, they have a negative impact on the standard of living of ordinary people. And the people wanted, he felt, he understood that it was necessary to allow his electorate to implement the programme they voted for in five years. Further, please, or the prolongation, if people's trust is justified, or vice versa, will be chosen. Therefore, direct voting in the elections was a legislative act of high legitimacy. The people, as a source of authority, have taken a decision by direct vote. Therefore, what has changed the Constitution is logically due to you, in accordance with the supreme legitimate document — I repeat — there is no democratic country in any country that is the highest in legitimacy, a document more than the free direct will of the people. We simply have a duty to bring the text of the returned Constitution into line with the will of the people and thus demonstrate that we, Ukrainian parliamentarians, whether we are on the left or on the right, are Ukrainian parliamentarians, we love and respect our people and respect their views. I propose to vote in favour of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u68	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Sergey Sobolev will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u69	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues. You don't think a discussion of enough qualms is going on like that. I think it's perfectly natural, because after the 305 votes of the Supreme Council had previously approved the relevant changes to the Constitution, this discussion was about not fighting arguments, but fighting motives. And in large numbers, what's going on about whether or not to make changes to the Constitution is just a struggle of motives. What are they? Legal -- no, legal -- not exactly, arguments -- not exactly. Fighting political motives and seeing their position for the next year, two and five years. And if you look at it like that, it makes sense. There are absolutely certain segments, certain categories of our people. First of all, it's not the population, because it doesn't pay much attention to this population, it's certain categories of politicians and people who are in politics. It's absolutely understandable and, you know, in their place, obviously, and a lot of the audience did that when people for some reason did not end up in the Supreme Council, there's obviously a desire to accelerate, not to prolong, because there's no prolongation. You know very well that the MPs have chosen this call for five years. That's what everyone understands, but motive, not argument. This is not the way to prolong, but to speed up the election campaign, and the motives are clear. Part of the people who are in charge of providing certain political forces through political work, political work, expert work, journalistic work, and so on are objectively interested in making the elections more expedited, and so that the elections are barely every six months. You also understand the exact motive. And so I would not even like to make further arguments, because the Constitutional Court ruling likes or dislikes it, but it is said that the people have exercised their electoral right on the basis of the five-year term of power of the national deputies, which is stated here, quote: it does not contradict or restrict, it does not restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens. All right, you could put a dot on that. But why does everyone speak only of the Supreme Council? Why is it not said that this bill has rules that apply to hundreds of thousands of our citizens, those people? Not to have a wage in the Supreme Council on a permanent basis, not to use some of the benefits that everyone is talking about, but what should be the deputies of the rural, rural, circuit, urban, district council? These people were elected to the position of rural, rural, urban head. Why don't you talk about it. That they are given 5 years of authority, which is fair when the President has 5 years of authority, and the Supreme Council has 5 years of authority? In short, she doesn't want to argue, because no one here is interested.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u70	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u71	Since they're essentially not interested in legal arguments, I'll say that controversy is a struggle of motives. I think for 400, 424 people, the real motive is for the Supreme Council to work as much as those deputies were elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u72	Sergey Sobolev, Faction "BUT" - "Fatherland." Oleg Lazko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! You know, in the state that this Parliament is in, no other parliament in the time of an independent Ukraine has ever been in. I remember very well how the same speakers in the state on December 8, 2004, saved for the change of the Constitution and claimed that the Constitution of 1996 did not grant powers, created elements of authoritarianism, gave extraordinary powers to the President, which is why Parliament and the government should be given additional powers. These same speakers now state what a wonderful Constitution is, and they just have to be supplemented. So I want to say that maybe Ukraine is the only country in the world so far where the Constitution is changed not by a popular referendum or a parliamentary decision, but when the Constitution has been changed by a constitutional branch, which is the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It's strange for me to listen, as it is for anyone involved in the rule of law. But that's not even the point. Those who have so saved for the change of the Constitution have now come to understand, and the term of authority is another. What should we do in this situation? Because I imagine if President Yanukovic or Party of Regions or Communist Party or Block of Lithuania went to the elections and said, "We're going to adopt this Tax Code. We're going to adopt this kind of pension legislation. We will adopt this Labour Code.” I can imagine how many votes these political powers would get. Therefore, everyone is well aware that if the elections take place on March 27, and today’s vote fails, it will be clear that none of these political forces will ever receive support. Everyone understands that the anti-State, anti-national course conducted by President Janukovic and this parliamentary majority will eventually change. That's why we have a unique chance today either to change what's been going on in the last few months and to forget it as a terrible dream, and to bring the country back to normal, civilized development. It is well understood that the first acts to be repealed are the awesome Tax Code that has brought millions of entrepreneurs to their knees. We will never allow retirement legislation that increases women's pensions to 60 years. It is remarkable that the Labour Code, which introduces slavery in the 21st century, will never pass. That is why there is a decisive moment today. March 27, if today’s vote fails, it will radically change the country’s political map. That is why the faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will not give a single vote, and those who agree to do so will be expelled immediately from the faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u74	Oleg Easy, non-faction. Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u75	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. One of his previous colleagues was right, who said that over 400 deputies cared for their own interests. That's absolutely right. Unfortunately, today’s composition is so far away from the people that they will vote on anything. And the one who screams the most and hides himself by the people is Chechetov's colleague from the faction of the Party of Regions, who has apparently not heard the voice of that people in a long time. The sociologists you call "sales," they do the polls. More than 80 percent of people do not want to see today’s Supreme Council and power at all. And we have no right to deprive people of their right to choose. If the authorities do wrong, they need to be changed regularly once a year in order to finally choose an authority that will not deceive people before the elections but that will fulfill its promises. Because today, when we see that we're coming for five years, people are promised gold mountains before the elections, and then they're sitting there for five years, solving their own problems. And people are deprived of the ability to change that power. Not everyone will live to see the next election as a result of such policies. That is why elections should be at least once a year during this transitional period. 5-10 elections in a row, perhaps after that Parliament will come to power, there will come people who will remember the interests of the electorate, not their own interests. First. The other one. This bill cannot be voted on at least because it does not correspond to the Constitution. Despite the decision of the Constitutional Court. Our Constitutional Court is the most just court in the world, it can make any decision, including what is contrary to the Constitution. But we do see that in the case of acceptance of these changes to the President's Constitution, they continue. According to the Constitution, according to the old one, the new one, the President was elected for five years. In the event of a change, the President will work for at least five and a half years. Who, then, is the people, Sir Michael, who gave the people the authority to continue the President's mandate? What nation was empowered to change the form of government in the state? And a number of other rhetorical questions that, unfortunately, you can't answer. All the things you're doing here against the people, you're covering up for them, and you're covering up for them. What is currently happening in the Supreme Council is being done against the interests of society, it is being done against the interests of Ukraine. You deprive people of the opportunity to choose a worthy authority. I'm definitely against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u76	Vladimir Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Commits the right to speak to Anatoly Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u77	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” block. Dear colleagues, I'm not going to go up in this rostrum, I just want to argue why, personally, I cannot under any circumstances support today's decision to vote in favour. First. I absolutely do not believe that if the 2011 elections were to be held on March 27, something radical would change. Nothing will change except perhaps the salvation of some politicians. Because Ukraine has taken the path of authoritarianism, and this is a successful way of moving forward, which can end in a very wept way for Ukraine, which is a dictatorship. And I think that the parliament that's sitting in this room right now is the first culprit of what this scenario is: the collapse of democracy, the invasion of human rights, the denial of people's faith in the future of Ukraine -- today is born and successfully realized by the present power. I think it all started with the fact that we forgot that the Supreme Council, as the Chief State Institute, is supposed to perform its functions, and these functions have no right for anyone to delegate to the Constitution, and even more to accept when someone takes those powers away. The Supreme Council, and only the Supreme Council, can change the Constitution. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court exceeded its mandate and did so instead of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council did not have the courage to protect the authority of the Supreme Council and put an end to it, thus giving a proper assessment to the Constitutional Court. And then everything happens after a scenario that we don't write, and then everything happens without us. Therefore, the Supreme Council, which does not perform its functions, has no right to be the Supreme Council, must be dissolved. It's an axiom, it's supposed to be like learning for future generations. And if we keep it quiet, we will have no democracy, no future Ukrainian Ukraine. The other one. The authority of the Supreme Council depends on what document we're proposing today. If the main body contradicts the transitional position, please tell us that this is nothing more than a demonstration of the nape, of the opal, without even thinking what we are doing, we are performing the functions that are imposed on us by the Bank’s. Third. You don’t have to deceive people, local self - government in particular, because the next, out of order, you don’t give them five years, it’s just one of the following powers. This could have been done before the local elections, but it was nothing more than playing. And at the end of the day, when we do not have a system of things, when we follow the course of change, the elections should not be in five years, but as soon as possible. And that's why four years is a good norm until we're really, really normal, stable, civilized. The State.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u78	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the region. Gregory Smythech will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u79	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. First, I would like to express my respect for the opposition and to express my respect for their right to some extent and the duty to criticize those or other decisions that are proposed in the Supreme Council by the majority. But without commenting on the political statements that have now been made, I would like to continue the legal discussion that my good colleague, Mr. Knazevich, has started. And actually, to give understanding to our colleagues in the room, and to our voters, is there a right to abstain from voting for this law? I express my position based on constitutional law and comes out of two circumstances. First of all, it's a political decision because it's approved by our representative body. And we have a situation where we were chosen by the voters for five years — one of the parts of the mandate of the representative body — is the totality of the powers and the term of these powers. If we were to now limit the term of the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call, we would be faced with a measure of criticism, including from an expert environment. And that's why the Transitional positions define that. The date on which the rule of principle of the law begins to take effect. So this is the start from which the norm starts, and that's why it's in the Transitional positions and it's fixed. Now, with regard to criticism to the Constitutional Court. I would like to protect the Constitutional Court, because very often, honourable colleagues, those decisions that should be made by political institutions, such as Parliament, we try to translate into the Constitutional Court. After all, the Constitutional Court, in the context of the presentation we made with you, has given us clear answers to the circumstances arising out of the Constitution, namely, are there constitutional norms that we are trying to implement in the Constitution? Yes, they are constitutional. Second, does the Ukrainian Parliament have the right to adopt such decisions? Yes, he has such a right. And I'll tell you one thing, honourable colleagues, from the debate that unfolded in society: we need to put a dot in the right hand today, on the first day of the session that starts, in the right hand of discussion, I stress, in the right of choice when the people of Ukraine, parliament and all other representative bodies are to be elected. And that's the question today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u80	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u81	And this question, my dear fellows, today will be answered. I hope it's positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u82	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Andrew Pavlovsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u83	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! I took the floor wrongly to argue that it was appropriate or inappropriate to adopt this bill. I think whoever read the Constitutional Court's conclusions, the Constitutional Court's conclusion, and the scientific and expert board's conclusions and the temporary commission that was set up to do this, will all understand that we need to bring the electoral system in Ukraine into line, and the citizens and politicians knew that the elections were going through at a certain time, for a certain period of time. And not to be the way it has been in the last five years, when the Supreme Council has been scheduled for early elections, when the President was not defined when the first, second, third, and so on and so forth. To avoid that in the future, I think we have good reason to bring these standards into line today. And we, as a Parliament, act in accordance with the existing Constitution without violating anything. A few more words before the political evaluation of our opposition. Of course, such a position as colleague Sobolev claimed here that whoever votes from their faction would immediately be expelled, I think it's pressure on democracy, pressure on the people's MP. Because according to the Constitution, every MP has the right to make his own decisions in the Hall and to vote for himself. And if the political power is pressing, I think that the democratic principles in opposition here speak for themselves. So I would call on my colleague to respond responsibly because this is not a political decision that applies to a particular political power. This is a political decision that applies to Ukraine. And the better the Ukraine will demonstrate its position as to what it brings to order the electoral system, the faster in the country, in my opinion, there will be peace and order. So I'm asking you to support this bill and vote, and put a dot on it so that there's no speculation on our television screens about the election process in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u84	National Deputy Podgorny, the right to speak is handed over to him by a colleague of Pavlovsky's, please, the faction of "BUT- "The Fatherland." Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u85	Honorable Presidium, Honourable Voters, Honorable Colleagues! What is happening today, and what is the difference between what we are doing today and what was done in 2004? When amendments to the Constitution were adopted in 2004, they applied to Parliament, which was elected in 2006, and the electorate knew about it. These changes involved the President, who was elected on the third round in January 2005, and he also knew about it, and the people who went to vote knew about it too. What is happening today? We were elected in 2007 under the same authority, today the other powers, the people didn't know, nobody asked him, the President did, too. What's next? Local elections took place. Question: "What is the term of the council? The answer is: For five years, everything is clear. And the city's, the village's, the village's heads? For four years. The changes that we're proposing are related to these heads? No, no, there's no such thing in that text. And so rural, rural heads will be elected in four years for five years, and rural, rural, urban, district district councils for five years, but five years later. And this vachanalia is going to be extended, and so on, and so on, and so on. That the transitional provisions of this bill and the body of the Constitution conflict, this has already been said. I want to pay attention to something else. What was the basis for the adoption of changes, a more faithful return to the 1996 Constitution? What is the main conclusion of the Constitutional Court? That there was a breach of procedure. What are we doing today? There are no deputies in the hall: Gorbal, Salamatin, Giga, Demiscan, Ahmut, Ivanyushenko, Babayev, Špak, Zubec, Petyovka, Skubenko, and some others, but their cards will vote. It's not a breach of procedure? And I think that's going to be the main argument of those deputies who are going to appeal to the Constitutional Court, that we can't do that anymore, I apologize, rape this Constitution and rape our electorate. I therefore propose not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u86	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, we have a minute here, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, don't be nervous. I'll tell you all about it. First. The Constitutional Court’s decision, like that of other courts, should not be commented on, but should be implemented. For when one political power was very pleased with the court’s writing down 7.5 billion dollars of debt from one entrepreneurial entity and writing down all of us, the court was right. That is why there is a decision by the Constitutional Court, but unfortunately, our discussion is not in the legal field but in the political field. It's an interesting logic for criticizing the bill. It's like you've never had anything to do with anything. People, you haven't closed your mouth in 2008-2009, you've criticised the changes in 2004: “balanced”, “disgustingly”, “need to change”, “need to change”. We're going to meet you, we're standardizing, and we're bringing you into line with the requirements of the legislative field. One more. Who created the artificial political crisis in Ukraine in 2007? Who allowed the disgraceful self - circumcision of their factions? But you've all spread out here, brought the people into a state of stupor, let's bring them in line with common sense. And the very right thing to do is to say, the same speakers who spent two years singing one thing now suddenly say something completely different. This is an immoral right, whether or not it is necessary. This bill needs to be adopted and ended by all these conversations and conversations, and less nervous people, because the people are already fed up with your conversations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. The closing word is Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u89	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I am deeply grateful to each of you for expressing your thoughts. I would like to thank the members of the Temporary Special Commission for taking this opportunity, especially those who took the stand. For indeed, in the course of our work on this extremely serious document, we have found an opportunity to seriously improve and improve it. Those who say that we have not taken into account the problems of local self - government are somewhat deluded. We couldn't count everything. And in order to take it into account, the speakers correctly spoke, rather than waiting for these changes to take place until February 2011, they had to make a five - year deadline before the local authorities were elected. That is, you would care for local self - government. Another position. In connection with the speeches of some of our colleagues, I was reminded of the words of our famous classic Boris Olijnik, who had been sitting in the walls of this hall for more than a year, he said such famous words as “that you will not take the people to their homes. ” And those who are trying hard today to prove that he wants to go to the elections in March 2011, he's not negotiating another, he's being forced to employ those behind the walls of this Parliament. But I think each one of you already knows the lists and only those who have come or who still wants to get on the lists that you know what they are, and for that political force that is quite aggressively insisting, looking for different possibilities that should not be voted for. Again and again, I would like to emphasize, by saying, again, thanks to the members of the temporary special committee, the Supreme Council, who are on the move, because you have considered this issue three times before, you have improved these positions. You can take into account and listen to what some speakers have said, which would be worth doing both. But you know that there are no limits to improvement. And I think you'll agree that you and I are voting today in general for a qualified document and it will benefit society. I ask for the support of the decision of the temporary special commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u90	Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for registration. before the vote, I'm sorry, and I'm asking all my colleagues to make a responsible decision. Please, fellow believers, do not be apprehensive that we will not make a decision in the form of law, and the elections will be in March. Then there will be uncertainty, and the election will be when it is considered necessary, and the election will be according to the law that will be required. By criticizing the decision that has been made, let us restore justice, for we need to make very responsible decisions. Yes, dear fellows, an offer is made. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the holding of the next election of Ukraine's national deputies, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads. Registration number 7265. Please vote. [[12:55:08]] For 310 [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the law has been passed for – 310. On Monday, when I met the press, I said it would be 320. 10 votes. It worked. Dear national deputies, by factions, please. Region Party - 180, BUT - Fatherland - 7, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 41, Communists - 25, People's Party - 20, non-fractional - 37. Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of two factions -- the "BUT" factions, the "Fatherland" and the "Our Ukraine - the People's Self-Defense" bloc -- I announce a 30-minute recess for consultations. You don't need a conciliation board? To consult between factions. Break until 13 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u91	Yes, I'm asking the distinguished national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Honourable National MPs, at the request of two factions: the Faction “BUT – Fatherland” and “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” announced a break of 30 minutes to allow consultation between factions and MPs. As a result of these consultations, there is information in the faction. And they have the right to speak. I'd like to invite you to the address of Sergio Sasa. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u92	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, I am authorized to announce the faction's decision, which took place just during a recess. In unanimous terms, the following national MPs have been excluded from the factions of the Fräulein-Paternal Faction of Yulia Timoshenko: Babayev, Bogdan, Kurovski, Mokchan, Pavlenko, Seminoga and Yatzenko I would like to say the following: just before the break, there was a vote by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on changes to the Constitution. On the proposal made by the interim commission of inquiry, 310 national deputies voted. However, I would like to remind my honourable colleagues that, in accordance with article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part three of the Supreme Council meetings are personally conducted by the People's Deputies. According to previous reports, there were no national deputies in the Supreme Council Hall when voting: Gorbal, Salamatin, Giga, Demiscan, Ahmutov, Ivanyushenko, Babayev, Vevsky, Mojčan, Kirovsky, Bogdan, Špak, Zubec, Petyovka, Skubenko, Boguslaev, Demenko and some others. In accordance with article 152 of the Constitution, laws and other legal acts are declared unconstitutional in whole or in part by the Constitutional Court if they do not comply with the Constitution or if the constitutional procedure for their examination, approval and application is omitted. I mean, honourable colleagues, there is good reason to talk about the fact that when deciding to change the Constitution, the constitutional procedure for adopting the bill has been violated and there is every reason to ask the Constitutional Court to declare the bill unconstitutional. Dear colleagues, I wanted to ask the audience a rhetorical question. As the Supreme Council, which does not comply with the requirements of the Rules, does not comply with the requirements of the Constitution itself when amending the Constitution, it may require the enforcement of laws from State bodies, legal persons and our citizens. Stop until it's too late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u93	Thank you, too. I'd like to ask you to transfer the factions to the secretariat so that you can formalize the message. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, I offer your attention also to the announcement. According to these statements, I am reporting the departure of Ukrainian national deputies Bobilov Aleksandra Fadiyovich from the deputy faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" and Vetwicki Dmitry Alexanderovich from the deputy faction "BUT – "Fatherschina". Ladies and gentlemen, we must now consider the draft Organic Production Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u94	The author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Litwin. And also Nicholas Tomenko. He'll report to Yuri Litwin. The focal point will be the chairman of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kaletnik Grigory Mikolaiovich. There's an urgent proposal here for us to consider this issue in a simplified way. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:34:56]] For 206 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u95	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The drafting of the Organic Production Act is a real necessity, as this direction of agricultural production has become widespread in Ukraine and continues to develop, but all work is done outside the legislative field. The current situation in the world’s food market is characterized by increased demand for quality and safe food and increased consumer interest in products called organic food. An analysis of information materials suggests that the direction of agricultural production is becoming increasingly widespread in many countries of the world and is the most dynamic sector in the field. Starting in the '70s, it increases by 10 to 12 percent a year. The global organic market is now estimated at over $40 billion a year. Ukraine, with its natural climate and soil potential, has a unique opportunity to take one of the leading places among organic producers. At the same time, the realization of this potential develops slowly and unsuspectingly mainly because of the lack of a legislative framework, the lack of organizational work to determine the real coordinator of problems. Today, there are more than 100 agricultural enterprises in Ukraine that carry out their activities according to the principles of organic farming and certified according to the applicable international standards. The area occupied by organic production is more than 260,000 hectares [260,000 ha]. The creation of such a category was largely due to the enthusiasm of managers and the support of foreign companies and organizations. However, further active development of organic movement in Ukraine can take place only if a clear, effective system of support is established at national and legal level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u96	Thank you, too. Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, please, regarding the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The current situation in the world food market is characterized by increased demand for quality and safe food and increased consumer interest in products called organic food. The defined direction of agricultural production is becoming increasingly widespread in many countries of the world and is the most dynamic sector in the field. The basis of organic production is a complex of technological measures to produce it without the use of synthetic mineral fertilizers and pesticides. Today, there are more than 100 agricultural enterprises in Ukraine that carry out their activities according to the principles of organic farming and certified according to the applicable international standards. The adoption of this bill will determine the legal, economic and social foundations of organic agriculture, give the organic sector legal certainty. And organic technology will be officially recognized. It will encourage agricultural producers to take the necessary steps to move to organic production, which will contribute to the development of the organic agricultural sector, and contribute to improving the health of the population. It will also ensure the rational use of the soil roof. However, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, based on the first reading, recommends that the prescribed bill be sent for re-reading. However, when the bill was discussed at a committee meeting by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the committee made suggestions to take into account comments when preparing it for second reading. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Organic Production Act, to be adopted as a basis. [[Registration number 7003]] Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u98	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion. Please put your name on the information board. Katerina Timofievna Vaszczuk, faction of the People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u99	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! It can be said that this is a very important, wicked law for today. In view of a few aspects. First. It is the preservation of the health of our future generation and of our present generation. We all know what major problems there are in the use of chemicals, in view of the insurmountability of all requirements for the cultivation of quality organic products. The second is to preserve the purity and fertility of our soil. And the third moment is the economy. The economic advantage of producing organic production today will be when we recognize that it really is. This is the case in Ukraine, and it is vital to vote in favour of the bill in order to encourage and support those farms that carry this important program alone. Throughout the world, such products are always valued more than conventionally used chemistry. So it's a bill in time, developed seriously, basically. And the faction will support this bill, and I will go to all the fellow national MPs: let's support this law, thinking for future generations, for the health of the nation today, and for Ukraine in the world to be really a state of ecology and cleanliness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u100	Yes, Sergey Shevchuk, please, the "BOUT" faction, Fatherland. And then Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u101	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The faction of Yulia Timoshenko reviewed the bill and decided to vote in favour. And we have a lot of arguments as to why. The fact is, literally a week ago, a country like Germany was shocked by the fact that dioxin was found in food. [[in eggs, meat products]] These are in a country where there are very clear standards and requirements for the quality of food. What about Ukraine? We don't know how we feed, we go to the supermarket network. Unfortunately, the health and epidemiology services don't play their part properly either. So, of course, the very idea of the bill, which is to give the Ukrainian the right to be able to eat healthy, clean food, is absolutely true. And that's why we're going to support this bill in the first reading. I just want to add that the bill was considered at a meeting of a professional medical committee, and all the national MPs, members of the committee, of all the parties also expressed their support for the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u102	Jaroslav Jojik, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u103	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine has tremendous potential for organic farming, and that is why the Ukrainian People’s Party was, is, and will be, an active leader for the widespread application of organic farming and the corresponding legislative regulation of this activity. But at the same time, we think that, first, it would be more appropriate not to invent a bicycle, but rather to take a decision from the European Union that defines the standards of organic production certification and prepare this bill on its basis. Secondly, I would like to remind all those present that, in accordance with EU legislation, for the purpose of assigning the status of “organizers” to produce, the control authorities should inspect each stage of this route from field to field, soy material, accommodation and agrotechnical measures, conservation conditions and so on. And it is important to address these issues in the bill, not handing them over to the executive branch, as proposed in this bill. Taking this into account, we propose, and welcoming the legislative settlement of the issue of Ukrainian organic agriculture, the Ukrainian People's Party believes that at the same time it is absolutely necessary to provide for standards according to which a healthy, ecologically clean land should be given a special status that would prohibit the use of toxic chemicals and other inorganic drugs at the legislative level. Four. At the time of the adoption of the Tax Code, we proposed and thought it would be appropriate to give tax preferences to agricultural producers who are certified producers of organic products. If an agricultural producer cultivates and manufactures produce from organic farming systems, not only by damaging the land but also by producing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u104	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u105	Instead of improving it, the State must set a zero fixed agricultural tax rate, thus maximizing and welcoming the same form of agriculture. The Ukrainian People’s Party therefore insists on the need to provide for appropriate changes to the Tax Code in the Final and Transitional Conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u106	Thank you, too. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u107	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! I took the floor because I support this bill. We considered it on our committee and unanimously supported it so that it could be brought into the hall during the first hearing. And in support of some of the ideas that the previous speaker was making, Mr. Joyce, I would like to suggest that during the second reading some of the right points that he, including our attention, could be brought to the second reading. And the other questions, please submit as a bill, a separate bill. And our committee, which is very professional in this matter, always supports healthy ideas aimed at feeding or using the land cover that God has given us on this earth, are all the possibilities to produce pure produce and to provide people with, so to speak, clean products that will not harm their health. So we've always supported them and supported them. So I would suggest that we focus on this issue. And all the ideas that relate to improving our soil use of land, improving the use, cultivation of those or other products without GMOs, without harmful ones, so to speak, chemicals and so forth, will be supported, because these are healthy normal ideas that need immediate inclusion of all the national MPs today, so to speak. I ask you to support this bill because it is one of the steps that we must take to improve this situation in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u108	Thank you, too. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, as co-author of the bill, I think it would be fair to say that we should also mention our colleague on the previous appointment of Michael Melniczuk, who then introduced the first version of the bill. In the first reading it was approved, but then because of the different circumstances it was lost and therefore, Yuri Alexiyovich Litwin, I, with the active help of Roman Tkach, who had only recently joined in there, had not signed the bill, and we decided that the Supreme Council would have to start a serious work on legalizing a serious one, I think, not only in terms of healthy food and healthy nutrition, but also in terms of our strategy and taking a serious place in Ukraine in an agro-industrial situation. the food market of the world. So I am grateful that the agrarian policy committee led by Grigory Mikolayovich Kaletnik came up very fundamentally and seriously and supported the bill. And I'm convinced that all these warnings, because there's always a warning when we're developing a new approach, there's a lot of fresh ideas, between the first and the second readings, of course, we'd have to involve those professionals who are already working in organic production and who are trying to regulate it at a public level, will involve foreign professionals. You're being informed that it's not just Europe. By now Belarus and Russia already have state programmes on "Supporting Organic Production". In fact, we're the only ones here who've slowed down in this area. And after a serious discussion, we're going to go out on second reading, because without a government, we can't do this project, because after the law we have to adopt the State Program, we have to think about tools. People's deputy jojik is right there in that part that let's think that we're going to give up the government and that we're going to leave the rule of law. It may not be necessary to give too much tools to the government so that it does not lead to any abuse by those working at the local level. But today it's about supporting a strategy, a concept that has a lot of work to do. I would therefore like to vote and be prepared to continue working with the committee on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office recommends that a draft be sent for further work. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Organic Production Act. [[Registration number 7003]] Please vote. [[13:50:23]] For 302 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we must now consider a bill amending some of Ukraine's educational laws. [[on the observance of State guarantees regarding persons who are trained in private educational institutions]] At the same time, there is a request from the author of one of the bills, Vadim Kolesnick, who asks the Supreme Council of Ukraine to postpone the bill to the next plenary week to reconcile some positions with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm going to put this proposal to the vote: the transfer of this question, namely two bills: 5087, 5087-1. And I'm asking you to back me up. They have to go together then, but we have to move the question. [[13:51:32]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Then let us turn to this question. Reporters: Ukrainian National Deputy Vadim Koleschenko and co-reporter are Ukrainian National Deputy Maruschenko. Dear colleagues, this is a request: To consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:52:09]] For 215 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, such a request that we continue our morning session and conclude our consideration of the matter. No objections? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine has noted that it is impossible to save on children and teachers and has identified investment in education as a primary priority, noting the need to find alternative and solidarity sources of social investment. A successful international experience shows that neither public nor private funding is in itself available. is not optimal for the development of education and has the advantage of combining them. The creation of a mandatory financing of a State standard of education independent of the forms of property of a public educational institution is in the context of public policy in the field of education and will not require additional funds from the public budget. The thing is, today we have a very strange situation where the state spends on all children learning money, but private schools and children's institutions don't get it. So this money, I can't find it anywhere for the second year. Although private non-state schools perform social social functions, they teach our children and they don't always do worse. In Europe, the vast majority of the nation’s population. The vast majority of European nations have private kindergartens and schools, sometimes 80 percent and 90 percent, and they compete very successfully. So there's an offer: to give up the disgraceful practice that is now in our country, when non-state educational institutions act as entrepreneurial structures and thus pay very high taxes, and parents spend very high costs on keeping children in these educational and educational institutions. So there's an offer, without exerting pressure on the state budget, to look at our attitude towards private schools and preschools as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u112	Thank you. Yes, please, 5087-1, Marouschenko. I can't see. From the committee who? Catherine Semenovna Samojlik, secretary of the Committee on Science and Education
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I've started my speech with statistics. We have 217 institutions of general secondary education in private property, 34,000 students in education, and 20,000 and a half in public general secondary education, 4.5 million students in education. And another addition to that is that in one month of private schooling, parents pay between $500 and $700 for teaching their children. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided to refer to the draft law. First of all, he's not. These two bills, they're the same, they don't fit the substance of the proposed changes, and we need to change a number of Ukrainian laws. Next. Such a contradictory concept of the relationship of private educational institutions with the State has been created. On the one hand, the authors propose to introduce budgetary funding for the public standard; on the other hand, they recommend eliminating the state’s certification of the governing bodies of private education institutions, abolishing prior agreement with the public authorities on the appointment of their directors, the approval by the public authorities of the order of enrolment of students, the filling of classes, and so on. And so, based on the fact that virtually private educational institutions are being created for the only result, this is profit-winning, and state education institutions are being set up to educate our country, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine would first ask you to reject the bill at all, but at the request of one of the MPs who is not present, but should report the bill, nevertheless by a majority of votes, have decided unanimously to reject it. We cannot be very generous at the expense of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u114	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Please, Moses. Kirilenko Viacheslav Prepare Tarana.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u115	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! As with the committee, it seems to me that this bill is not going to solve the problem of secondary education. And so how can they be solved if in all the practical areas of education there are absolutely questionable things going on. They did 11 years in high school. They didn't make new textbooks, they didn't give money to teachers. It got worse than it was. So what can be decided by this bill, which concerns only private institutions in secondary education? Nothing. Preschool education was compulsory. So what? Are there more kindergartens? No, it wasn't. Did you get more pay from the day-care staff? No, it wasn't. They're getting less strained? No, there's not enough kindergartens, and there's just no one in the countryside. I am no longer talking about teaching aids, special programs related to the obligation of preschool education and so forth. Nothing that the Ministry of Education in charge of the Tobacco doesn't do or want to do. Higher education. Students are no longer allowed to enter the Conciliation Board Hall. And they're doing the right thing. Because they want to make such a reform of higher education already when the University of Kiev-Mogilian Academy is gone, because it ceases to be a university under the tobacco industry's parameters -- a world-renowned institution. There's not gonna be a sharp university, because the tobacco guy doesn't see him at the university by the number of students. External independent evaluation is essentially overturned by the introduction of both the law and the middle score, and the introductory exams. So corruption is coming back. And this is all called higher education reform. Maybe they give more money to teachers? Oh, no. Maybe more autonomy? No, it's not. Why don't you meet the students? No, I'm not. Because throughout the country, from Donetsk to Kiev and Lviv, student protests took place yesterday. And I don't think it's the last one. Therefore, I believe that Parliament should take seriously all these reforms of woe-tobacco and do everything possible to get President Janukovic to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u116	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u117	And do everything possible for President Yanukovic to remove Dmitri Tobacco as soon as possible in the interests of all forms of education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u118	Taran, prepare for Smitsuhu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u119	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues! I'm going to be fully in touch with my presentation by the previous reporter. Why? Because these two bills have been cut off from what is being done with education in Ukraine, it's simply not necessary and it's not necessary, because today the state of education is such, and you know it very well, most of them, that the Minister of Education is really constantly destroying education in Ukraine. This is a fact. More compromise the government, more compromise the tobacco industry is compromising the government and the president, well, it's just impossible to find, but that's not what I'm talking about. It is the destruction of education when the number of students is reduced by half to a government order, which means that even gifted children, especially from rural families, will no longer receive education. Education is being destroyed, and when the so - called concept of language politics is proposed, and this concept breaks Ukraine apart, it ignites national hostility, and in general it transforms Ukraine into a cosmopolitan territory in which Ukrainians once lived. And so this Ukrainian-eating reality is to be remembered when considering every bill. And when the authors of these two bills propose to release private public education institutions from taxes, will parents then pay less for their children’s education? After all, one of the highlights of the pens may be an increase in school fees, as is done today by the minister of education with the colleges when he planned to increase student fees each year. What's more, in principle, the idea of these bills, the conceptual idea is basically normal, but if it was done on a condition like being done abroad, or in the US, or in Singapore, when money is just given to parents to get an education to pay in some private institution or other. We don't have it, we're going to have to just, unfortunately, go into the pockets of some entrepreneurs. We need to work on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u120	Please, Smitch. Behind him, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u121	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally urge you to support my colleague Koleshnenko's bill and for the following reasons. Let's see, Ukraine in Soviet times, our education as a whole was high enough, and its qualifications were counted as being part of the world's best five, as it were, of the educational system at that time. Today, take our education. Today we have 500 better schools, no higher education, I'm not talking about kindergartens anymore, I'm not talking about public schools. Next question. We've moved on to market relations, so we've agreed to a fundamental constitutional principle where everyone has equal rights. Why don't we, if the state at this stage can't deal with the problem of kindergartens, public schools and higher education institutions, translate into those people who can do it, who can implement it and implement it, or bring our level to the level that meets world standards. I think it should have a place and this is even provided for in this plan, some of our bills that have already been passed in years of independence. Next question. I'm definitely asking the question, when the budget system allocates funds to support kindergartens, schools in general, these costs should be distributed equally to every citizen, regardless of his age, three years old or he's in the 11th grade. So these issues are relevant to us as regards the organisation of education, the functioning of educational institutions, the public education schools relating to funding and budget support, and the public budget, and the national budget, including the aid. Let us look to the experience of most countries around the world. You know, in the United States, England, Switzerland, and other countries, public schools, regardless of the form of property, have very high benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u122	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u123	Their incomes are not taxed there on a very substantial system, where sponsors and patrons provide very high costs, where they raise levels and learning opportunities. So they have better scientists today, they have better scientific and technological solutions to one or the other industrial problems that apply to today. I ask you to support the Wadima Koleschenka Bill in order to allow us to discuss this issue during the first and second readings. No one is calling on you to vote for this law today, but to give you the opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u124	Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u125	Thank you, Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Company of Ukraine will not support these two draft laws. And that's why? Where did we come from when we made such a decision? I can agree with the previous speaker when he was appreciating the gains of the Soviet education system, indeed, they were extremely solid. But from these gains I find it quite different that we lost not only the economy, we lost not only the social sphere, we lost not only health care, we lost education. And education is one of the best in the world. Because in its time after the Soviet country paved the way for space, many of the so - called democratic states thought very seriously about it, and why did it happen? What must be borrowed from the Soviet system of education in order for this to take place? Back to the bill, honourable colleagues, a very interesting sensation -- private educational institutions. What is proposed? It is proposed that the state finance private educational institutions from the state budget and from local budgets. A very interesting proposition, because a private educational institution that exists should exist at the expense of the founder, now the situation is that the material and financial gains are profit, and education today, education has turned into one of the most profitable spheres of activity, so profit today will be paid by the founder of the educational institution, and education will pay the corresponding budget. Or should we go the other way, dear fellows? Maybe those educational institutions that are not state-owned and that are now being asked about financing them from government or local budgets are first granted state-owned status, that is, changing the form of ownership, and then we'll look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u126	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u127	And then we'll consider funding from the state budget. I reiterate that the faction of the UK Company will not vote in favour of this document and will call on the deputies to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u128	Thank you. There's no closing statement, one minute, Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u129	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been thoroughly familiar with all the bills and the Marouschenko and Koleschenko bills. And I want to tell you that they are in line with the Constitution because the Constitution provides for equality of forms of property. Let's think about what we're talking about. We're talking business, education as a business? Obviously, this can only be said to people who do not know what is going on. The state gets the job of teachers, is that better than what they're standing on the market? Better. The state gets a normal, full education of children, is that better? Better. The money that's been allocated and supposed to go to those government institutions and not go to them, they have to go somewhere, they have to go after the kids. That's why we have to create the same conditions as the law. That's why I'm voting for both of these bills, which is what I'm calling for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, and I will inform you that the conclusion of the committee is to return these two bills to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is to reject both bills. As a result of the discussion, I am voting on the adoption of a bill to amend some of Ukraine's education laws to ensure that State guarantees are respected for persons who are studying in private educational institutions. Registration number 5087. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:09:54]] For-9 The bill is not supported. Bill 5087-1 is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:10:18]] For the 10th. This one's a little more. There is a proposal for the committee to re-establish the right of legal entities to take the initiative. Please vote. 5087 [[14:10:45]] For 211 I think it's honorable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-01-m0.u131	Well, I put both. I put both of them. We will not solve these questions once again. You know, there are bills that we're going to be doing parliamentary hearings, probably on these issues and so on, that is. Let him live if he's right. Dear colleagues, at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. At 4:00 p.m., the evening meeting.
