ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:45]] They registered cards in the 350 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please welcome the National Deputy of Ukraine Zaz Aleksandra Viktorovich to your birthday. And that's because 35 years of age has passed. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 7 September 2011. Twenty-one questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of these issues, 2 laws and 5 regulations were passed, 6 bills and 9 draft regulations were rejected. Dear National Deputies! Two factions: the "BUT" faction, the "Fatherland" and the "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" faction, require a 30-minute recess to be announced for consultations. At the same time, they are willing to make a statement explaining why they proposed a break. National MP Shustik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u2	Olena Shustik, "BUT is the Fatherland." Respectable citizens! Dear Chairman! The "BOUT" faction wants to announce the following. Today, 76 days are held in the court of Julia Timoshenko. However, a criminal case that was so carefully prepared in the offices of the Bank is falling apart in front of the eyes. Yesterday's testimony to Timoshenko in court proved that the ex-Prime Minister wasn't guilty. Once it was confirmed that there was no criminal element in her actions, there was absolutely no evidence of any accusation of her guilt or of her committing any crime. Julius Timoshenko was incriminating that she had personally prepared the directives, signed them, sealed the Cabinet of Ministers, and personally handed them over to NAK Naftogazu's manager. This accusation was fully refuted because the files of the case do not contain documents signed by Julia Timoshenko herself. To support the directives contained in the material of the matter, it is facsimile. This completely undermines the concept of the charge. Similarly, expertise, so - called loss, appears to be. In particular, a number of specialists who signed the evidence, which was the basis for calculating the damage, refused the fact that any tests were carried out. They noted that they were forced to sign this help in the premises of the General Audit Office without checking any original accounting documents. It has also been definitively proved that Timoshenko did not take part in the preparation of contracts, had no relation to the drafting of the contract text, his appointment and signature. All of this indicates that Timoshenko's actions lack any form of crime. There's really no signature on the directives, there's no damage to the state, and there's no crime in Timoshenko's actions. It is evident that the court over Yulia Timoshenko has a politically motivated character that is incompatible with the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the international obligations of our State and generally accepted moral standards. The criminal case is sewn with white thread. In an independent Ukraine, the court has no right to be a political breather, a towel of active authority. Therefore, the parliamentary faction "BUT – "Paternity" requires the authority to immediately come to terms. Stop this farce and release Julia Timoshenko from custody. The case against her will be closed, allowing citizens, the international community, to show that there is indeed a court in Ukraine and that the Ukrainian Femida is not a mockery. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, we need to decide on the parliamentary hearings for this session. I'm bringing to your well-known, distinguished colleagues that we have parliamentary hearings for September 21st of September on the theme "The Family Institute in Ukraine: Status, Problems and Ways of Solutions". So we have the opportunity to predict parliamentary hearings for October, for November, for December, and even for January. It is now proposed to consider five draft regulations. And I'd like to ask the distinguished national MPs to take into account the information you've just been given. And this request, my fellow Members, let's consider holding parliamentary hearings under a reduced procedure. No objections? I am voting on the proposal to review the short procedure for the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on the topic "Contemporary status of social morality in Ukraine, problems and prospects, and the state of compliance with legislation in this area." [[Registration number 8264]] Please vote. [[10:07:28]] For 228 Decision taken. I would like to draw the attention of the initiators of this draft decision to formulate "a position of social morality." Maybe "the state of social morality in Ukraine" or "the morals of society." The situation of social morality." We can't read morals. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Demyanchuk Victoria Alexandrovna. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski. There might be some clarification for us to put in our name. I'm saying, then we'll put the exact name in, maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u4	Yeah, yeah. Victoria Demyanchuk, faction of the Company of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on the topic "Contemporary status of social morality in Ukraine, problems and prospects, and the state of compliance with legislation in this area." The present state of social morality in Ukraine is disturbing because there is an obvious moral and spiritual degradation of society. If in an era of developed socialism our society had such values as conscience, life for the cheaper, concern for neighbor and weak, respect for elders, responsibility. With the collapse of the Soviet Union, not only the country fell apart but also the moral values of the era. What do we have today? At the level of consumption of alcohol per capita, Ukraine has a fifth place in the world of 15.6 liters. We hold first place in Europe for the number of teenagers who drink alcohol, which is 40 percent. Women’s alcoholism is widespread. More than 40,000 people die each year as a result of alcohol use. Drug addiction in Ukraine increases by 8 percent annually, one of the highest in the world. The most modest estimated number of drug addicts is 1 million, and 70 percent of drug addicts are young people under 25 years of age. More than 27 percent of Ukrainian teenagers have tried drugs at least once. Ukraine has sixth place in the world at the level of the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and the highest rate of its growth. More and more, there is a negative trend in disregarding ethical standards, traditional moral and spiritual values that have been formed and formed in society for a long time. Such negative phenomena are the result of accessible television, radio, video products, musical and artistic works, including educational and those recommended for children of printed material and other information, which have a negative impact on the mental development of the individual and the education of citizens in the spirit of good, honour and justice. It is also remarkable that there is a mixed application of the methods of educating an adult generation in the schools of general education, which are reflected in the subject of the curriculum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u5	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u6	Not only is the social and economic situation in the country as a result of Ukraine's long-standing history of social morality, but not only is there a social and economic situation in the country: unemployment, the inability to obtain the first job, closed houses of culture, libraries, schools, kindergartens, but there is also a lack of perfect legislation to protect citizens from the negative impact of information on personal development, but there is also a neglectful, indifferent state policy and its activities as a whole. That is why it requires constant control by the authorities over existing problems at the queen’s social morality. After all, they pose a danger to the young adult generation. Because if we don't stop this immoral vacchanal, the permissiveness, the irresponsibility of breaking the legislation that our nation is looking for in the future. It is clear that the current state of social morality in Ukraine and the state of compliance with legislation in this area need broad discussion. The purpose of parliamentary hearings is to create the necessary legal and socio-economic principles aimed at preventing the rise in the impact of negative morals on the development of citizens, the protection of social morality.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u7	Victoria Alexandrovy, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u8	and the positive development of the personality. Today, it is necessary to establish a limit beyond which uncontrollable self - control, anarchic permissiveness threatens one another’s freedom. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u9	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u10	Good morning, Ukraine! Respectable society, parliamentary hearings on whatever subject they are on, and especially when this topic is very important to society -- it's always useful, it's another step to uphold civil society, it's another step towards democracy. Because of this Committee on Culture and Spirituality, of course, it supports, thinking that this topic is incredibly important, because today Ukrainian society actually falls into such an immoral, I would say, an immoral gloom that is felt everywhere today by the basics of something that has saved the Ukrainian village, and that's where it's ruined, not to mention the huge megapolises, not to mention the poverty that the Ukrainian society is in today's day. All of this, of course, gives rise to colossal blows, distorts the basic moral values of society. Because of this, I am convinced that the different thoughts that are heard here will obviously help us, if we do not solve this problem, at least publish it so that it will become clear to many. Because of this, it is also obvious that there are numerous cases today when young mothers, when they have a baby, are ready to sell it immediately. But I think we need to talk first about the immorality of power. Today, immorality has prevailed on all the surfaces of power, from our highest guarantor to the very bottom. And we also need to talk about the same Medjugorje that is actually captured, and we need to talk about the hunting arrangements that are being captured today, and there is no way in which a simple person can enter today. We need to talk about these things. You have to talk about the moral level and the government, but you also have to talk about the commission that was created -- the Moral Commission, where men sit and decide whether it's eroticism or sex, but you don't understand it or not. That was the story of Ulyanchenka Olesia, sadly, who had already been banned because of what seemed to be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u11	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u12	Someone didn't tell anyone there and so on. As a result, the committee supports these hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, shall we discuss this matter? Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. National Deputy Ariev, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, the idea is very good and right. It would have taken a long time to raise this question, but would it not turn into a farce and empty talk without any result that would follow these hearings? What do we have today? We have schools that are closing down today. We have broken houses of culture for today. We today have a lack of funding for any cultural programs, as well as sports for young people. Instead, the authorities show how it really works. Today we see that hundreds of millions of dollars are spent on the presidential palaces. The U.S. Attorney’s Office has already allocated over a billion dollars from the state budget of Ukraine. The government is sucking up more and more, but the young we are spending much less money today than even in the worst years of crisis. So we need to be honest today or in front of ourselves and not just talk, but act. And the best way to do that is to put money into the 2012 budget to support young people, to support culture, and instead to cut down on a substantial amount of power that has already been consumed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u15	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u16	I'd like to speak to the National Deputy of Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u17	Catherine Seminalic, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u18	Thank you. First, I support, Vladimir Mikhailovich, your proposal, you need to correct the question, the name of the parliamentary hearing, so you can't, and there's a lot of tautology. That's the first one. Secondly, I wouldn't be looking at exactly the way the rapporteurs told us that question, because that's the way to go. We need to consider morals in what? For 20 years, why has our history, the acquisition of our people, been plundered? Why did we allow the destruction of the monuments to take place, thanks to what happened to Ukraine? Why haven't we given an answer yet where our national studies are: Chronic Documentary, Longwall Film Studio, Odessa, Yaltinski? Where are their creations that would really exist on the traditions of the Ukrainian people and the morality of our people with you? Why is today a meaningful book and a beautiful movie replaced by all kinds of shows: both political and just a show of rich people, a show of decorations, a show of clothes? Where is the culture of the family?Oh, my God! Here we are now saying that we really need to consider young mothers who are already throwing their children there and who do not care that the family is there. Why, then, do we today have the question of supporting a surrogate mother? Where is the morality of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Where, then, are the morals of the Ukrainian national deputies who are initiating these questions? I mean, I would like us to come from the political issues of our society's morality to the real meaning of what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u20	And I think that's where we need to have this conversation at parliamentary hearings. We support this initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u21	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It's very good that this is what happened today, and I thank my colleague for introducing such a wonderful bill, the Parliamentary Hearing Order. The only thing I'm going to say right now is that I'm in a position to be able to prepare for this issue in a comprehensive manner, because it's not an everyday issue. So I would suggest, not October, but November. Well, it's up to the authors, to the court's judgment. As for my view of the matter. I'm asking myself, how did it happen that in our country, what education, which education, which is civilized and so on, we have the first negative, so to speak, degrees in all negative ways, that we can appreciate from a moral point of view. We are the world's first, in Europe all the more, alcohol, consumption, especially child alcoholism, we're the first to consume drugs, we're the first to distribute alcohol, we're the first, and we're the first, and so on and so forth. How did this happen in our question, and what are the reasons? And I'm sure that the parliamentary hearings will give answers: how long will it take for us to have bad television, so to speak, aggressive information policy, which is negative for young people's minds? To what time can we uncontrollablely distribute child pornography and stand up as one of the leaders who spread pornography through our computer system, and this is accessible to our young generation, having a corresponding effect on young people’s consciousness? To what extent will we see our consciousness, our Orthodox morality, destroyed in our central part of Europe? Why did the State not pay attention to this for a long time? I propose that we all take part in this very important, perhaps very important question, which is and address this issue by preparing*** to give a comprehensive consideration to this issue by setting points and raising the issue that should be regulated in the legislative plan so that it is not possible to be in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u23	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u24	antisocial. And one last question. I don't understand why we have this kind of activity that violates the rules of the Constitution and morals that is being observed and distributed, and the state doesn't make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u25	Thank you. Theology, what? I don't understand. Turn on the microphone. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u26	Thank you. We support these hearings, but on November the month, as requested by the speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u27	The authors of the draft decree agree? November of the month, huh? Do you agree? But then, if you don't deny it, we're going to take a decision, but in the working order, we're going to correct the name of the parliamentary hearing. Is there no objection? Taking into account this proposal, that is. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, Unguryan from the faction, one minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there was to be a record.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I also thank the initiator of the decision for this initiative, because what has already been said is very negative trends that are today in Ukraine, they testify to the terrible state of affairs in this situation. But what did I want to focus on? That we often struggle with the consequences. All the public policy that my colleague has just talked about is aimed at combating the consequences. We save young people, children, society from the shameful phenomena that result. Alcoholism, drug addiction, HIV-AIDS are all the consequences of the fact that, unfortunately, there is very often no real spiritual morality. And that's why we need to change state policy, social policy to fight for moral, high-spiritual, high-moral people, young people, children, teenagers, the whole society. And that's why we have to spend money, government finances.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u29	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u30	Not at a beer festival, not at a festival, just completely squandering government funds, but to form consciousness, to form real patriots of their country, with strong spiritual moral haircuts. This needs to be done primarily for each government body.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u31	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! For our MP group, it is also very important that we move to common, liberal, economic and other values, not to lose the sacred foundation that is in history, in the soul of our people and in our society. It is very important for us to see the threats that exist, to see the reasons that lead to them, to discuss, and to offer to the government methods that can be countered. Because we have very often begun to understand liberalism as permissiveness, apopheism, and apopheism of culture and spiritlessness, we need to put a screen on it. In this regard, the Supreme Council should say its word. And the main thing is that this is what a colleague of the Ungurians rightly said, is that we need to find the flaws, find out what Ukrainian youth should do, find opportunities for them to do, so that they can look for themselves, not in the filth that is being imposed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. This proposal, my fellow Members, is that we accept with you the theme of parliamentary hearings: "The State of Social Morality in Ukraine." The proposal came forward to hold these parliamentary hearings in November. This can be done on November 9. In accordance with the Rules this week, the Supreme Council of Ukraine operates in committees and factions, and parliamentary hearings are held. With this in mind, I am voting on the draft ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8264]] Please vote. [[10:25:23]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on the Development of Software Industry in Ukraine is announced for consideration. [[8376]] Request to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[10:26:03]] For 221 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Eugene Kzarykov, co-rapporteur, the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Maxim Lutsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u34	Respected people's deputies, the proposed draft regulation provides for parliamentary hearings to create an enabling environment for the development of the software industry in Ukraine, during which information is requested, proposals to identify clear strategic orientations in public policy to create favourable conditions for the development of the software industry in Ukraine. The purpose of these parliamentary hearings is to analyse the implementation of State policy, to create an enabling environment for the development of the software industry and to adopt relevant parliamentary recommendations. I would like to draw the attention of the presiding and the people's deputies that the draft decree proposes to hold hearings on an old date in May, since we have already missed that date under the Rules. People's deputies, initiators of the legislative initiative, are proposing to hold these hearings in November 2011. Throughout all the years of Ukraine's independence, the information technology industry has evolved without any intervention by the State and is largely separate within its framework. Meanwhile, in the world market, the producers of software products have established the main countries of competitors, namely India, Belarus and Russia, where the necessary economic conditions have been created for the development of this area of activity. Ukraine was seriously threatened by the loss of the market and by the lack of access to the budget of about $1 billion in income, both direct and indirect social. I recall that a large number of Ukrainian citizens are working today at Microsoft Corporation, Google, Siemens, Bosch, Deutsche Bank, Boeing, Lufthansa and others. In fact, our enormous potential, Ukraine's legal potential, and this is the largest number of young people, is forced to sell their work abroad. The adoption of the proposed draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine would therefore contribute to improving the work of executive bodies, public organizations, professional associations and market participants to create an enabling environment for the development of the programme industry market in Ukraine. I ask the People's Deputies to support this legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u35	Thank you. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Maxim Lutsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In support of the whole idea of recognition of information technology, such as the software industry, the Committee gave priority to this issue on June 15, 2011. The authors are proposed to define clear strategic policy orientations for the creation in Ukraine of favourable conditions for the development of the software industry and the analysis of its state of implementation, and to hold special parliamentary hearings in May 2011. The Committee considers it appropriate to discuss the modernization of state policy in order to promote the development of the software industry. Public discussion of this problem is needed because: First. The country has established stable software development traditions. The other one. Unlike manufacturers, this industry is environmentally clean, its development does not exhaust natural resources, and the results are achieved exclusively by the power of the mind. Third. The whole concept of the structure of the national software industry is not based on its specificity and effectiveness. Four. Finally, there is no whole state policy to stimulate the development of this industry, because the experience of other countries proves that the granting of appropriate benefits and preferences can significantly improve the structure of GDP and expertise. The hearings were also supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which noted that hearings would provide an opportunity to analyse the state of implementation of state policy on the development of the software industry as a component of public policy in the field of information technology. They'll help. Recommendations have been developed to create conditions for the development of the industry and to strengthen Ukraine's position on the global software market. The Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports supported Ukraine. State Agency for Science and Money Information of Ukraine, Academy of Law and Teaching Sciences, Institute of Law. It should be noted, however, that every parliamentary hearing should be preceded by a meticulous working group, including public discussions, preparation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u37	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u38	The question is relevant, the problem is, and we need to be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you need to exchange your thoughts, please sign in. Yes, the names, please, of the national MPs, show them that they've signed up. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! National deputies of Ukraine! The subject is really, really important. A country cannot develop normally today, in the 21st century, if it relies only on raw resources, on manufacturing industry, and on the lowest first level of processing. High technologies, from which the highest technologies are information, software, other similar directions, are what should be the main focus for Ukraine. Our level of higher education, our level of scientific institutions, the first major achievements that have been made in Ukraine, give us the moral, not the right, but the duty, indeed, to look for the problems that have kept this development going, and in parallel, I think it's very important to look for those problems that have stopped once very serious plans to develop not only software, but also some resource base for the high-tech industry. Think of some of the Silicon Valley projects in the country that were planned on the basis of other old Soviet enterprises that were never implemented, and that were broken up, unfortunately. So I think when we look at this issue, we need to add the problems of both Lightwater and a few other cities, where there is actually a starting point for development other than software and new technologies for computer technology and so on, for new energy technologies and so on. I think these hearings are mandatory. The only thing I recall in the decree was May 11th, so it is necessary to determine the date of the hearing. Besides, our faction supports this idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u41	Another Bogoslovak, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u42	A party of regions will support this decision, but we propose to hold these hearings in December. The authors of the decree do not deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u43	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk. Stanislav Arjevitin, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u44	Pass it on to Arjevitina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u45	Please, Stanislav Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that a group of ten national deputies from all factions has drafted a bill called "The Economic Experiment to Create a Qualifying Environment for Development in Ukraine." After agreeing, we came to the conclusion that in order to find out the relevance, reasons, and mechanisms, it was appropriate to hold first parliamentary hearings, to hear what Ukrainian experts in particular thought about the matter. And then determine in what form we need to improve, whether it is possible to replace the bill. It's very important for us to be able to define and listen to who should be involved in this economic experiment. It's very important which should ultimately be the purpose of this experiment, especially the implementation of this experiment, governance, especially publicity and publicity. We need to figure out why you're lagging behind our neighbours in Russia and especially in Belarus. And then the authors are ready to submit either an improved or a draft in exchange. Therefore, we ask for the support of parliamentary hearings on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. We need to set a date before we put a draft ruling on the vote. The project proposes holding parliamentary hearings in May. You know, it's not real. The date is possible and acceptable on December 14, the honourable colleagues, just that week when the Supreme Council of Ukraine will work directly on committees and factions. No objection to the date? I can't see. I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings on the creation in Ukraine of favourable conditions for the development of the software industry on 14 December 2011. [[10:35:54]] For 238. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now reviewing the bill of parliamentary hearings on "Ethnonational policy: gains and prospects". [[October 19, 2011]] The date is already being deleted, you need to specify a date. Registration number 8546. Request: Let's consider this in a simplified way. [[10:36:42]] For 211 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Maruschenko. Correspondent from the committee, Yuri Gnatkevitch. Please, Vladimir Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u48	Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, has made up 22 percent of Ukrainian citizens since 2001, more than a fifth of the population. National minorities actively unite in public organizations to promote the preservation and development of their national culture, education, and language. If, in the early 1990s, 186 public organizations of national minorities were registered in Ukraine and only six were registered in the early 1990s, there are now thousands of 800 public organizations of national minorities in Ukraine, and the status of the whole country is 45. All of this indicates that for Ukraine the issue of national relations regulation, the protection of the rights of national minorities must be an integral part of national politics. During her 20 years of independence, Ukraine has accumulated considerable experience of legal regulation aimed at satisfying the ethnic, linguistic, cultural, and religious identity of national minorities. While noting the positive gains of the Ukrainian State in the field of ethnic politics, it is also important to highlight the urgent issues of further development in the sphere. The current task remains to harmonize relations between the Ukrainian nation and the national minorities. As Ukraine's President Viktor Janukovic noted in his annual letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the modernisation of Ukraine is our strategic choice, in the context of European integration, that the State should build an ethnopolitical concept that is oriented towards democratic European values. This, in turn, calls for a permanent dialogue between government authorities and national communities. As a result, it is proposed to hold parliamentary hearings on 19 October 2011 on "20 years of ethnonational policy of Ukraine: gains and prospects" with the participation of heads and representatives of state authorities, all-country social organizations, national minorities, leading scientific institutions. Dear colleagues, I would like to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u49	Thank you. Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic, head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I will start again as I did yesterday from the end that, at my meeting on June 15, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations chaired by Oleg Zarubinsky's committee, I reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings on the subject "Ethnonational policy of Ukraine: gains and prospects", introduced by the People's Deputies of Bilozoz, Zvania, Maruschchenko and Stretovich. We unanimously decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. I would like to point out that all the factions of the Supreme Council are represented on our committee, except for "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Dear colleagues, I was Ukraine’s national MP for the first time, and I remember very well how soon after the declaration of independence we took up the legislative settlement of national politics in Ukraine. We adopted the National Minorities Act in Ukraine, which was considered to be one of the best in Europe. Later, we were signed, ratified, basic international documents in this province, such as the European Council Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities. Honorary colleagues, national deputies from our committee said that holding parliamentary hearings on the proposed topic in the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the participation of heads of government and representatives of government authorities, national minority national social organizations, leading scientific institutions would allow further steps to be taken towards the development of a dialogue between national and national minorities. I would like to point out that in the course of my two appeals, we have practically not adopted any serious document that would regulate the international relations in Ukraine. During the discussion, MPs noted that Ukraine was a state with a high level of tolerance. And unity.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u51	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u52	Ensures the protection of the rights of national minorities. I attend meetings, round tables of governing bodies of public organizations of national minorities, and I am convinced that national issues can and can be easily addressed. But we just need to take this seriously and discuss it calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Please, who's going to perform? Names. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u54	Thank you. Masterful colleagues! The Party of Regions will support the draft decree on parliamentary hearings on "Ethnonational policy: gains and prospects". All we have to do is figure out what to add. Why will we be supportive? In 1995, when we joined the Council of Europe, we made a number of commitments, including regarding the protection of the rights of ethnic and linguistic groups. We have formally ratified the Framework Convention on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities and the European Charter of Regional Languages and Languages of National Minorities. But unfortunately, there is still no real mechanism to implement them. Why did this happen? There is no reason why they failed to accept the national concept of ethnopoliticalism or the concept of language politics as a component of ethnonational politics. So in order to eliminate political speculation in subsequent elections around language problems and problems of international relations, it is necessary: firstly, to hold parliamentary hearings on the concept of ethnic politics and language policy as its constituents; secondly, through these hearings to develop and adopt appropriate concepts in the form of laws; thirdly, based on these concepts, to adopt appropriate laws, providing clear mechanisms for the implementation of national and cultural and linguistic rights of all linguistic and ethnic groups, of all Ukrainian people, of all nationalities, as stated in the Constitution. A party of regions will vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u55	Paul Mokchan, a group of reforms for the future. Fomin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Undoubtedly, the draft Law on Parliamentary Hearing on the very important topic of ethnopolitics needs to be maintained for many reasons. One of the main speakers was the work of the Fifth Global Ukrainian Forum on Ukrainian Rights outside Ukraine. It is not just the Ukrainians of the second, third, or fourth waves of emigration, but it is those indigenous Ukrainians who are depriving themselves of their rights in their historic lands. They never came anywhere, never came, never lived in neighbouring countries forever, and they do not have the symmetrical rights granted by Ukraine. For example, groups of whole languages, ethnic Romanians in Ukraine, or Hungarians in Ukraine. I'm not going to count everything, as the set of our constituents of our ethnic state say, that are really guaranteed rights on a European level. Indeed, the Charter was called upon to protect the linguistic or minority rights of those ethnicists who are at risk. In this session room, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'll remind you how the charter was adopted, ratified, it was in violation of all existing norms and standards. First, the text of this paper was distorted; it was replaced. And instead of protecting those languages that are at risk, we actually gave the opportunity to protect groups and language enclaves in Ukraine that have the potential to develop, like Russian in the Russian state, like, for example, Polish in the Polish state, like, for example, Hungarians who have schools in Ukraine, or Romanians, you know, they have schools, they even have flags hanging over rural councils. Look at one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u57	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u58	At least one village, although one settlement of Ukrainians outside Ukraine, who do not have one, is being destroyed. If 20 million people have recently lived in the territory of the Russian Federation, there are only 3 million today. Where did they go with Kubani, where did they go from Rostovland, neighboring lands, Slobodan, Voroniztina? If the heads of Ukrainian landscaping are killed, the heads of societies are destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u59	Thank you. Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, please, instead of Fomin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, a few suggestions regarding the general procedure for holding parliamentary hearings. As a person who conducts parliamentary hearings quite often, I think that today we would also have to think about the general form and efficiency of their conduct, because it is so complex that the government changes people who represent the position of power several times. It starts with the vice-premiers, then the ministers go, and it ends with the third to fourth deputy ministers. So the degree of efficiency is close to zero. I'm mentioning parliamentary hearings about the Customs Union. Finally, a deputy minister of the economy came to us, where it was found that he was in a position that was annually opposed to the President and Prime Minister of Ukraine. He convinced us that if we did not join the Customs Union tomorrow, we would starve to death. Instead, the position of the President, the Prime Minister, and other officials is quite the opposite of joining the Customs Union. So it seems to me that here we should have a day before, a committee that is authorized, perhaps in another way, to consider what must be a responsible official who has the right to represent the position of the government. For such a format of performances as, for example, there, social morality, well, there should be no substitute for the head of Derteradio, there should be a vice-premier or a person authorized to speak on behalf of authority. This is the situation with ethnic politics. I predict that these will be the offices that deal with regulatory matters there at a time when the issue is political. And I'll tell you more. With all due respect for our national minorities, most of them are now working as political parties of other nations. Let's say, look at the political statements they make. And today go around the country. We have representatives of the consulates of neighbouring states handing out passports to the left. I turned to the PNB. It's true that if it still exists, because I haven't heard of it for a long time, it can't raise a question and stop this story when thousands of passports are issued by citizens of other states, and no one is responding to it. I talked to the mayors. This is the Belgrade-Dniestrovsky mayor telling me, I'm strengthening the consulate, I'm handing out embassies. I'm on the airlock, everybody's talking, it's okay, let them hand out their passports. So we have to think not generally about how to help national minorities, but about how to balance the situation and how, respecting the rights of national minorities, we have to remember that Ukrainians still live here, because we're going to be hearing as Ukrainians survive in our own state. So I think we need to think seriously about (a) the formulation of the problems that we are considering; the representation of the government and the effectiveness of the decisions we are making. Then parliamentary hearings are needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u61	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u62	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! It is difficult to deny the magnitude of the problems that have been brought into the agenda today, with further consideration at parliamentary hearings. But me, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and I ask you to view this as my request to you as Head of the Supreme Council, how did our bill on the conduct of parliamentary hearings called "The Ways to Reform Health Care" not go to the list of these issues. This is an archival question that applies to everyone. And I think that less for an average Ukrainian is an important issue of doing, say, software than health care. Reform has begun, many problems have arisen, and why such an important issue is not raised. I've raised this problem several times. It was not even in the agenda with the formulation and inclusion of questions that had been previously considered by the committees and were rejected by the committee. I didn't understand that position. That's a very important question. And I'm asking, really, to explain to me why it wasn't introduced and not considered. Other questions are not to be asked. do not put up a number until the issue of health care reform is considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u64	Thank you. I have one request and one wish. Tomorrow's the government's day. And in recent days, there has been information from the media that Ukrainians in Libya have been detained, tortured, and so on. I would like to know, and that the entire Ukrainian public knows what kind of people the citizens of Ukraine are in, and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including the Red Cross, is accepting, in order to give us an answer, whether it is legitimate or not, to these people. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm calling your attention, and tomorrow on the day of the government, this question will be brought to the people's deputies and to the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Date, we need to determine the date. We might have a date like this. January 4th. Is he initiating? You should. How's January 4? Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we can hold parliamentary hearings once a month, a week when the Supreme Council of Ukraine works on committees and factions. That's not gonna happen, because it's the law. And after the end of my sentence, I think no one wants to walk and give an appropriate witness as to why the law is being broken. So I ask the initiators again, are you ready to consider this issue on January 4th? I then put to the vote the proposal to hold parliamentary hearings on "Ethnonational policy: gains and prospects" on January 4, 2012. Please identify yourself. [[10:53:19]] For 229 Decision taken. We have parliamentary hearings on January 4. The factions, please. Regional Party – 163, "BUT - "Patkaščina" – 8, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 16, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, regarding the suggestions and questions raised by a colleague of Carpuch, why the draft Law on Parliamentary Hearings on the Health Situation and Approaches to its Reformation is not being considered. Answer. The committee didn't pass. The committee will give, we'll consider. I'll bring you some help. Adam Martinyuk, Mikola Tomenko, and Vladimir Litwin put forward a draft decree for parliamentary hearings on the status of legislative work. The committee has not yet considered. That's why we don't abuse ourselves because we're here in the Presidency and we can't bring this matter up. On the committee, please work and make a bet on committee hearings. Next, the situation with the Ukrainians in Libya. Tomorrow's Government Day. All members of the Cabinet of Ministers will be present, and there will be an opportunity to ask questions. And at the same time, we're about to hand it over to the Cabinet of Ministers to be ready to provide information on this. Prepare this information. Honourable People's Deputies, now draft Decision on the holding of parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for trade union rights in Ukraine, including the implementation of the International Labour Organization Convention on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Rights of the Organization. [[October 2011]] The reporter is Alexander Stoyan. I would like to vote on the issue of a reduced procedure. [[10:55:35]] For 204 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that according to the Constitution of Ukraine, trade unions are the only organizations or which are delegated the right to the protection of the social, economic and labour interests of workers, i.e. they are full expressions of the interests of the working people. This is the position enshrined in the law on professional associations, their rights and guarantees of activity. And I'll also remind you that you see what is happening today in Europe, where people are coming out to protect jobs, protecting their wages, protecting the need for safety and security. And we also have trade unions taking their active life position. In recent times, however, there have been many violations, such as interference with the internal affairs of trade unions. They have broken into cabinets, such as the Federation of Trade Unions, canceled some documents, and much more. So colleague Wolintz, and he's a member of another union, but he's a member of the Federation of Trades, and our committee has made a proposal for parliamentary hearings on convention 87. This ILO convention is ratified in Ukraine and it is indeed declared in such a way that freedom of association and protection of the rights of the organization. So this ILO convention gives broad rights to the creation of trade unions, to their legalization, to their ability to operate in society. I think it would be very appropriate, really, to listen to this topic, as we have in Ukraine the rights of workers, how trade unions have the capacity in the field of legislation to protect the interests of workers. The committee supports the proposal of a colleague of Volinz and we would like to consider the date and possibility of holding such parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u67	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u68	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the problem is serious and requires public debate in the Supreme Council by representatives of the public, trade unions and the Cabinet of Ministers. It would probably be useful to have the maximum effect of parliamentary debate, to hold it at the end of the calendar year, at the end of the budget year, sometime in February, could be in March, not three months before the end. There will be results year after year and then, indeed, it will be possible to address this issue in the context of budget implementation and to make serious decisions that would put an end to this problem so that it will no longer build people and never be considered under the roof of Parliament. We propose to support the holding of parliamentary hearings, but at the end of the year, somewhere in February-March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u69	Mikhail Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u70	Mikhailo Wolintz, faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. Dear TV setters, reverent radio audiences! The way our citizens live, Ukrainian citizens, how much price increases, how low wages, how low living standards are, is evidence that in Ukraine there is a very weak position of employment, that employed workers today are not protected, that they are not properly represented before the authorities and employers. Roosevelt used to say, "What if there are weak unions in the country, it's a threat to national security." I repeat the same thing: there is a national security threat in Ukraine, because employed workers today are not protected. And so I'm asked as the author of this decision to consider in October and immediately, without delay, to consider the state of the unions and to look at how much we have paid, what is the level of pensions that are adopted by laws and how protected people are. And I'm asking you, Mr. Michael Chechetov, don't hold back, the situation is just critical.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u71	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u72	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! We're asking a very serious question -- parliamentary hearings about the state of respect for trade union rights. And what are trade unions for? To protect the rights of citizens. And the protection of what rights? But obviously, what this booklet envisions is the Constitution, which of August 24, the Constitution became a fiction when we saw the face of a dictatorial regime that didn't even let people go through peacefully and gather for the celebration of Independence Day. Because I would like to address the authority that has the Donetsk face today, and today from Donetsk move all the judges, prosecutors, and prosecutor Kiev, and judges in Kiev, and around Odessa to Lviv, all around Donetsk. Please pay attention to what you are doing. Yesterday, the district specialized building of Artemowski in court, the administrative court works or shuts down, closes, and decides to close the house in Artemovski. Why? Motivation: The house is old - fashioned and needs local boys. Guys, think about what you're doing. I'm addressing the President, there's his representative here, if there is, he hears me; I'm talking to the head of the government; I'm talking to the unions, why the unions are silent, why they've been silent about pension reform, why you haven't protested against government action, and now we're talking about protecting the union. Before, we have to protect ourselves, but the unions have to perform their functions, including protecting their children. And I would like to say how we are protected by the rights to work provided for in article 43 of the Constitution. After the adoption of the Tax Code, minus 500,000 jobs, minus 500,000. What do these unions have? They have to rise. That's why we need to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. It is proposed to hold parliamentary hearings in October. We don't have any in October. In October, we may have 12 just October. At the same time, I, my distinguished colleagues, am informing you that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has made a decision to hold parliamentary hearings on the subject of "Militation, Reform and Protection of Human and Citizen Rights." The subject, you know, is burning. We're all talking about this. So I would like to take this into account. But at the same time, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I am forced to put this draft decree to the vote, specifying the date of October 12th, and you are already being determined. I put to the vote a draft decree on the holding of parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for trade union rights in Ukraine, including the implementation of International Labour Organization Convention No. 87 on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Rights of the Organization on 12 October 2011. [[Registration number 8030-d]] Please be sure. [[11:04:16]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. By factions, please, dear colleagues. Region Party 7, "BUT – Fatherland" – 24, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 13, communists – 17, "Reforms for the Future" – 9, People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 1. Honorary colleagues, another bill for parliamentary hearings on "The state of implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on the repayment of arrears in the payment of wages." It is proposed to hold parliamentary hearings on October 19. I immediately say that on October 19 we cannot hold parliamentary hearings because this is a sessional week. The rules do not provide for parliamentary hearings to be held during the sessional week, so we need to be precise. Please consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[11:05:29]] For 215 Decision taken. The reporter is Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! I want to remind you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, especially you, has been asked by the trade unions to help you resolve the issue of paying off the debt on salary. And you personally instructed our committee to prepare parliamentary hearings. That's why we prepared this for your assignment. But the very objective situation shows that today, as of August 1, the debt of wages is $1 billion 170 million. Although objectivity requires saying that 596 million have been cancelled this year. But a billion 170 million! In which case this debt is an active employee of economic-active enterprises. In other words, it's a debt in the manufacturing sector in enterprises that belong to the state; it's a debt in the manufacturing sector that belongs to private enterprises, that's active people. I would also like to remind you that there is a Constitution that provides that the salary, the remuneration, should be the main pay, first. We managed to make changes to the law in our time, so that the salary would not be the sixth payment, as it was before, but first return the salary, and then everything else. We have also managed to find another source of criminal responsibility for the delay in the employer’s salary. But criminal cases have been broken, and thousands of them, I mean, aren't being carried out, and that's why today there's such a huge debt on salary. I don't think that's acceptable. The man worked, he had to pay his wages. Managers who are unable to pay their wages should be responsible for both moral and criminal and material matters. So we think, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we really need to hear this question. But I want to remind you that we made a decision in December. We thought we'd listen in 2010 and it's the end of 2011, so, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd like to make an offer, it's agreed on by the committee, and in this case, the faction will support -- consider and hold parliamentary hearings in January when we go to work with you after Christmas. It'll be a year and it'll be all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u76	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u77	The financial year will end, and it will be possible to talk in general about the payment of the debt from the salary. I propose after January 20th. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion, if that's what you need. Please have the names of the national MPs who wish to speak. Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u79	I beg your pardon, Lyushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u80	Oleg Lazko, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u81	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, especially those who do not get paid, billions, almost 200 million dollars -- debt on wages. These people, who are in arrears, are not members of the Supreme Council, neither the President, nor the Prime Minister, nor government officials, nor, for example, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, who was suffocating me for asking people to pay their debts. I want to remind you of the history of this question. The builders of the specialized construction and assembly company Kyivmishkbud have not received a salary in six months, the workers of the Prilytice oil plant in Chernigiv County have not received a salary for eight months, the employees of a number of Luhansk companies who have asked me to help pay their salaries, Kharkushtschina, and other areas of Ukraine. And when I approached the Supreme Council about raising the employer's responsibility for not paying the salary, I went to Adam Martinyuk and asked, "Dear Adam Ivanovich, give me one minute of time to ask the President with a request that people who have nothing to eat who have nothing to support their families for pay." Adam Ivanovich said, "No." And only after I said that when I came to power, we'd take away both your house and the pension that you made illegally, did he get into my throat. And today millions of Ukrainian citizens do not receive or rest. Ask your friend Martinyuk where he rested. This well - known representative of the Communist movement rested in Spain, and they packed so many bags there that they were not even released on duty. Apparently, the golden party was being driven or what they were doing there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u82	Thank you. I beg you, let's get on the subject!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u83	Excuse me, let me finish! According to surveys, two thirds of Ukrainian citizens have forgotten what recreation is. Their children in the pioneer camps do not rest. And these bosses, who have been bothering people for 20 years, are resting abroad. And that's why I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u84	I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to speak on the subject, and I'd like to take into account that some of our bosses haven't worked in a year, but they already have what they've worked for 50 years. Let's not. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u85	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, for 20 years we have faced one unresolved problem, I would say, a shameful problem — the debt of wages to those people who have faithfully and faithfully worked in enterprises of various forms of property. Wages have accumulated for years, months, and far more seriously to this day have not been suited to this problem. And only with the arrival of President Fedorović Janukovic's Banking Office will the question be put to the table: or it will be terminated. This disgraceful, disgraceful phenomenon is being eliminated, or both ministers are to be dismissed, and heads of public enterprises and appropriate measures will be taken by private enterprises. The issue will be resolved, I repeat, for the first time, the President has put the issue on the table, closing it once and for all. Otherwise, in Europe, no one will take us with a tail like that. Therefore, in order to discuss this issue in detail, serious measures may need to be considered at the end of the calendar year, following the end of the budget year, to consider it somewhere, perhaps in February-March, with the presence and union, with the presence of employers, the Cabinet of Ministers. And for the last time, point in Parliament on this issue so that the problem will never again be addressed in the sessional room or built up people. I am sure that the task entrusted by the President to the executive branch to bring an end to this insolence and to the full repayment of the salary debt will be resolved. And in the context of this Presidential decision, the parliamentary hearing will be effective at the end of the year in February or March next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u86	National Deputy Fomin, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland" refers the right to speak to Wolin. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u87	Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u88	Mikhail Volintz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! Dear friends! I propose to go down to the ground and get closer to the people, because if today's debt on the salary doesn't go up, and my colleague Chechtev says that Janukovich is actually taking tough action today. That's not really true. Because debt does not go down, it goes up. And government statistics don't take all the debt on wages into account, and the heads of state authorities and employers don't pay this real debt on wages. And that's why it's distorted, at least, by 30 to 40 percent. In reality, it's at least 2 billion dollars. That's the first one. State inspection, other government authorities are taking no action to actually reduce the debt on wages. As was done in the government of Julia Timoshenko. Now here's the next one. The Donetsk region, industrial regions, and payroll debt amount to 250 million. And I'm saying, I'm just calling the numbers of the state statistics right now. Kharkiv region is 150 million. This is Kharkiv district. I want to stop. More recently, the employees of Electrotrans were struck down, the authorities and local authorities broke down the company, liberated the people, and there was a militia of members of an independent trade union. Next. Luhansk district. Debt is again understated, but it is shown by statistics — 105 million dollars. At the International Labour Organization at the 100th ILO General Session, the issue was to be considered six times throughout Ukraine on wages. But the authorities were so manipulative that they listened to completely different questions about government authorities. Where are these government inspectorates? Whom did they protect? Do they appeal to the court for the benefit of the people employed? They serve employers and authorities. Now I'm gonna stop at Kharkiv, the Malishev factory. What a huge debt on a salary. Fedorov's factory. Nothing is done by power. And these are companies that are funded by the budget, these are state-owned enterprises. Let's go back to the coal sector. Illegal sector, diggers, about 6,000 diggers. People go to work there like ghosts. And the owner of these digs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u90	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u91	And the owner of these digs wants to pay people's wages. He wants to pay them off. What is this doing? This is done in Donetsk, Luhansk region. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u92	Thank you. Vladimir Alexiyovich Leschenko, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u93	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! This was to be experienced in an independent Ukraine so as not to give money to the people. Payless is a terrible disaster, followed by children hungry, people's health, broken families. Was that ever the case in Soviet times? You'll all say it didn't happen. Because then there was proper control, then the party authorities controlled, the Soviet authorities, the national control, the unions that are now inoperative. Now what? Individual insolent employers were so disintegrated that they had neither the law nor the decree nor the decree of the Supreme Council. And then there is the uncontrolledness of power. Although the authorities are executive, they seem to be doing it. The meetings are held each month, and then they call the figures that the debt has increased. Including the prosecutor's office. And very often, the authorities are on the side of those insolent employers. The Communists are running, the project is being implemented, the action is: "Work, pay, protection!".. We have been able to achieve in Ukraine that many businesses pay wages. And you know, we have the opposite of power when we're running this project. I want to talk about the next one. The only business we have in Ukraine is Bilkozin in Priluki. Debt is constantly growing and no one is doing anything. I therefore propose to support the draft ruling and to hold parliamentary hearings on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that in due course the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions has asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider this issue on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yes, indeed, I have made this appeal to the committee to identify and make appropriate proposals. The committee, of course, went in the right direction and immediately decided to hear the execution of the ruling at parliamentary hearings. You should, your honor, listen to who you need, give information to the Supreme Council, who needs to give a strong thank you, and who needs to offer the government a discharge. And obviously, when we talk about this topic, which is very important, we should talk about the subject of place and the role of pay, the stimulating role of pay, the level of pay, the state of pay, that would be the subject. Because the number one problem is that we don't have a minimum wage even if we have low productivity. That would be more, I think, justified. At the same time, dear colleagues, I remind you once again that we have the opportunity for parliamentary hearings only on October 12. Because on October 19th we can't hold parliamentary hearings, it's plenary week. And given what I've already said before, I'm voting on a proposal for a draft Supreme Council regulation, a draft decree on parliamentary hearings on the subject "On the state of implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on the settlement of arrears in salary payments" dated 17 December 2010 No. 2806-VI, please identify yourself. [[October 12]] [[11:20:18]] For-97 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party 6, "BUT" – "Batakushina" – 21, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 25, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 15, National Party – 0, non-factional – 5. Dear colleagues, I, dear colleagues, please. We can't go to the next one, there'll be a session there, at that session we are. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, please. Now. I'm asking you, dear fellows, we've learned the word "honor" very well, let's do the word "work" and everything will be fine. Please, please, please. So I think I'm going to prepare a commission or a request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide relevant information, and we've decided to listen to the Cabinet of Ministers' information on the situation of wages. And it'll be better than shame. In conclusion, then, appropriate recommendations can be accepted. Dear colleagues, let's get to the bottom of this. Mikhailo Chechetov, a replica, please. Don't call each other names, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u95	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, here was reprimanded by the President, acting in power for what is not being done. I mean, we started with the main one, and we started to bury the wreckage that remained after the last power. Can you come up with an easy way to warm up a gas jam? You see, that's how much we're burying in the gas field. We're burying a downpour in pay. We'll get rid of it, we'll clear the way to the European Union and bring Ukraine there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the second reading. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Measures against the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors and Abuse. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the fight against organized crime and corruption, Gregory Omelanovic Omelchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u97	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine prepared amendments to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Combat and Abuse the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors. In view of the serious comments made by the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s expert board on the non - acceptance of this law and taking into account the need to adopt this law in strict terms, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in its first reading and entrusted the Ukrainian Committee with the task of combating corruption and organized crime to work on it. The committee worked seriously on this article. It's in the editor, you can look at the comparative tables. I'll only notice one thing. Today, on the first issue of morals in Ukraine, we have called attention to the critical state of drug abuse in Ukraine, the ineffective fight against illicit drug trafficking. Along with the committee members, this article was followed up with appropriate comments. It foresees administrative responsibility for the heads of establishments where mass people gather and where drugs can be distributed, and an exclusive list is established. It has been established that in the event of a failure by the officials of these institutions to apply to a law enforcement authority, a decision by the court, rather than a local authority or local government, the operation of this institution has been suspended for three months. If there is a continuation of mass drug use or a one - time operation, the court will increase the term to 6 months after the law enforcement authority has been filed. In order to avoid any abuse by law enforcement agencies, we suggested that the decision was taken by the court, not by the local authorities, or by the local authorities, or by a local government, or by a paradise, what was proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. And it's also very important that it's not in practice that, let's say, a bar, a nightclub is called Orion, and after a court decision that prohibits, let's say, stops for three months or six, there's militia personnel coming in, and there's a sign-up for Orion, let's say, "Mars," and then it starts, as they say, another establishment. Moreover, the amendments provide that if, in the course of these imposed administrative mergers, they are repeated over the course of a year in the mass or repeated use of narcotic drugs, the court decides that the institution will be closed down by filing a law enforcement agency. And to the end. There is a remark by the legal authorities that our committee disagreed with.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u98	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u99	It's a criminal code and criminal justice code, but it's said to be a criminal responsibility, and it's administrative. Committee decision: To adopt this law in second reading as a law. Thank you for your attention. All the comments that were taken into account by the committee. Please put to the vote, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, two amendments have been made to this project, and they are included. The committee is invited to accept a second reading and generally as a law. Along with what has already been said, the scientific and expert office believes that the bill needs substantial systematic work. I put to the vote, taking into account this information, a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures against the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors and Abuse. [[Registration number 8158]] [[11:27:25]] For 280 The law is passed. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, thank you. But I want to go to the government. It is currently developing two global laws on activity, combat, and illicit drug trafficking. On another occasion, I turn from this rostrum to respectable colleagues from the government. Come to our committee with your work so that our working group can work out these two laws with you so it doesn't go away, and the committee will decide to return it to read again, we'll spend two or three months.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u102	Thank you. I ask the secretariat to prepare an appropriate appeal to the government. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the alienation of property of economic operators. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy's subcommittee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u103	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers has adopted the Ukrainian Supreme Council Act to amend some of Ukraine’s legislative acts on the alienation of property of economic operators on 14 June 2011. The project proposes to amend the Ukrainian Master Code and the Ukrainian Real Estate Management Act in part of granting the function of the Ukrainian State Property Fund and the authority to organise the sale of real estate and the recording of the funds received from the sale of real estate to the Ukrainian State Budget on the basis of the calculation of the balance and residual value of such assets. The committee received 8 suggestions from the National Deputies: Carmazina 3, Glazunova 4 and Cruza 1. The 4 proposals of national deputy Glazunov have been rejected because they essentially propose to cancel the results of the first reading. The other 4 proposals are included in whole or in part. The Ukrainian State Property Fund supports the draft bill prepared by the committee for second reading. It should also be noted that the committee took place on July 5, 2011, and on July 11, 1 amendment came from the Korja People’s Deputies, which was not included in the table, but this amendment is included in the draft proposed by the Committee. The Science and Experimental Authority is also proposing to support the law with two amendments that I can essentially explain. The first amendment refers to the need to detail what property is sold by the State Property Fund. This is unnecessary, since the entire enterprise’s assets are sold today by the Ukrainian State Property Fund. That is, this applies only to the individually defined property of a firm that is immovable. And so the second amendment that's given a deadline for the three-month legal acts that postpones the period of entry into force, but that's a general rule, we always give orders in the laws of the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare appropriate legislation. So I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the committee's decision and to adopt this law in a second reading. It will allow more budget revenue from privatization, introduce transparent mechanisms for the sale of property belonging to state-owned enterprises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! The amendments of the national deputy Glazunov have been rejected here. Is your colleague insisting on repairs? No, it's not. All other amendments are included. This includes an explanation of the position of the committee regarding the comments of the Chief Legal Authority. I put to the vote a proposal by the adoption committee in the second reading and generally as a law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the alienation of property of economic operators. [[Registration number 8441]] Please vote. [[11:31:47]] For 267 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm bringing to your attention the draft Act amending the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine. [[on the optimization of the structure and direction of state funding of the scientific sphere]] [[Registration number 3015]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Maksim Georgievicz Lutsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u105	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading in February 2009. The bill proposes to amend articles 1 and 34 of the Ukrainian Law on Science and Technology in order to improve the direction of scientific and scientific financing. The other one. The bill received 15 suggestions from the national deputies: Seminoga, Samoylik, Dentist, Carmazin. The proposals are taken into account, and only one amendment of the Seminoga National MP has been rejected regarding the definition of applied scientific research. The proposed amendment is not in line with UNESCO’s recommendations and is linked to the use of development, or innovation. In the drafting of the bill, a supplement to article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities was added to the guaranteed system of funding scientific research rather than to the article in the new edition, as proposed in the first reading. Grant financing is widely used in world practice and is practically not used in Ukraine. The State Foundation for Fundamental Research, which is trying to implement such a system, faces significant obstacles. First, grants that are won by scientists have significant overheads of the institution being used ineffectively, secondly, such grants are awarded on the basis of the results of the competition, but after that it is necessary to conduct the public procurement procedure further, this is related to additional costs, and they also shorten the deadline for the execution of grants. Therefore, the resolution of this issue is essential for the development of a grant system for scientific research and for the ultimate outcome. The bill is short-circuited, deleted, which contradicts existing legislation and provokes denials in the scientific environment, as well as duplicating the current legislation. I propose to support this bill, prepared for second reading, number 3015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u106	All right, let's get to the repairs, dear fellows, let's go now. Amendment 1-a is rejected. Does Seminog insist? No, it's not. The 2nd is accounted for. Huh? Yes, all other adjustments are included. Yes, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u107	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to pay attention to paragraph 15, this is amendment 8th. But the first reading said that "the state is gradually increasing the amount of budgetary funding for scientific and scientific and technological activities to 1.7 percent of Ukraine's gross domestic product, ensuring an optimal ratio of funding for fundamental scientific research, applied scientific research and the implementation of scientific and technological fundamental development." In principle, 1.7 is the level that the government predicts gradually going towards this goal, not so much, but it's some direction, and it's a good direction. The eighth sentence of this paragraph is deleted and this paragraph is deleted. I definitely don't want it to be removed. We'll make the bill worse. That's why I'd like to ask you now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u108	Yes, please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u109	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have considered all the amendments and have made decisions collectively. So I don't think there's any point in going back to talking about this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the 8th amendment has been taken into account. At the request of the National MP, I must put to the vote for confirmation. I'll bet on the vote on the 8th amendment, please vote. [[11:36:33]] For 248 Correction counted. [[B in m in s a l in]] We give by factions, by scientists: Region Party – 175, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 4, "Our Ukraine – 1, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, "The People's Party" – 20, "non-factional" – 3. Well, you can see who supports science, can't you? No other warnings? None. Then, honourable colleagues, I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering, registration number 3015. [[on the optimization of the structure and direction of state funding of the scientific sphere]] Please vote. [[11:37:34]] For 251 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! I am introducing to your consideration a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on priority directions for innovation]] 7333. The reporter is Lutsky Maxim Georgievic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u111	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The bill was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and was adopted on December 17, 2010. There are 33 proposals for the bill. These are the proposals made by the National Deputies of our committee of Samuel, Kurilo, Dawimuk, Dentist, and National Deputies of Karmazin, Yavorowski, and Wonderland. All the proposals that have come are processed and taken into account. In addition, the draft law clarified the formulation of strategic priorities for innovation, taking into account the priorities defined by the laws and chapters of the government programme. The priority directions of innovation are linked to the priority directions of science and technology, which were approved by the Law on Priorities for Science and Technology. The bill is supplemented by articles 3, 5 and 6 on the design and implementation of strategic and medium-term priorities for innovation. The purpose of the bill and the defined directions of State support for the implementation of these priorities have been clarified. In general, the bill is aimed at the implementation of state policy and the Government of Ukraine's innovation programmes. The bill is in agreement with the Ministry of Youth and Sports Education, the State Agency for Science, Innovation and Information Affairs of Ukraine, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. I propose to support and recommend and recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a whole as a law. With regard to the comments of the General Legal Directorate, it should be noted that the adoption of the priority directions for innovation is carried out in accordance with article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on Innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues! All corrections are included, several in part, but in principle none is rejected. Nobody insists? Then I put to the vote on adoption in the second reading and in general as a law of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the priorities of innovation. [[Registration number 7333]] Please vote. [[11:40:13]] For 263 The law is passed. There is a question of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving the legal regulation of the implementation of housing rights of residents]] [[Registration number 8678]] [[second reading]] Reports the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, and Housing and Regional Policy of the Forests of Igor Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, the bill was considered on July 8th, adopted as a basis. Following his adoption of the legislative initiative, 82 proposals were made to the committee. Of these, 67, 15 are completely or editorially rejected. The Supreme Council’s legal office signed the bill without notice. Our bill amends the Ukrainian Housing Code, the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act, 500 laws, and the Ukrainian Act on Privatization of the State Housing Fund. This law is of vital social importance because today more than 650,000 Ukrainian citizens live in social and private housing units. About 3,000 innkeepers are in municipal state property and 1 thousand and 350 innkeepers, according to the State Property Fund, are in enterprises and organizations on a balance sheet that have been privatized as whole property complexes. To the committee, the Supreme Council had many appeals from residents about speeding up the implementation of the 500th Law. The committee, along with the public organizations, studied the state of affairs. And that's why we're giving you enough today, I think, a perfect bill that will allow, well, first of all, we're continuing the moratorium on evicting the residents of the hostels and alienating the hostels for another three years or before the State Housing Program. [[by October 1, 2015]] The State Housing Program is today submitted by the Ministry to the Cabinet of Ministers, and will then be approved by the Supreme Council. This is the standard of the five hundredth law that you and I have not changed. So please support this bill and accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u114	Thank you. Let's go after the amendments that are rejected. 3rd, Carmazin, don't you insist? Yes. Who among the authors of unaccounted for amendments insists on taking them into account? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u115	I think we've found a general compromise virtually on all the amendments that were made. They're counted either partially or editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u116	Danilenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm referring to the 69th amendment, which is written that the committee is partially counted, but the comparative table shows that it is counted, but the substance of the amendment is lost. The main purpose of my amendment was to recognize that hostels built at the expense of government funds should be transferred to the property of the respective territorial communities on an uncompensated basis. Our faction, the party, has always stood for the protection of the rights of the inhabitants. We've always said that dormitories that were built during the Soviet Union at the expense of state funds should be donated free of charge to the territorial communities for their further privatization by their inhabitants. Therefore, I ask that this amendment be put to the vote for full consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u118	Now. Wait, please. Volodymyr Andryovich, please see on page 33 of article 14, "The gurneys of state ownership of the territorial communities are passed on free of charge." I mean, really, your amendment is partially accounted for. It's counted, it's counted. Don't insist. So there are no other comments about unaccounted for amendments? Danilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u119	Please, I'll ask for the 70th amendment then. The point of the amendment, I propose, is that during the transfer of the dormitories to the property of the territorial communities, if its former owner did not perform the current repair and capital and technical maintenance of the engineering equipment, he should transfer these dormitories on a compensatory basis, irreparable. There's been quite a lot of references to me every day, where we find that the dormitories are not even owned by anyone, but they're asking today that the residents start asking people for money for the ransom of these premises without even doing the repairs. I believe that the rule will discipline the owners of the hostels and help protect citizens by implementing the Housing Code, where it is stated that the owner should do the above-mentioned work. That's why I'm asking, and I'm insisting on this amendment. Maybe I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u120	Can You Explain?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u121	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u122	You know, one of the articles that we're talking about is 14, which is why we're transferring dormitories to community property from private property that were included in statutory capital. We made the following decision. That if the State has more than 50 percent of the statutory capital of any society, such hostels are transferred to municipal property with the subsequent privatization of residents on an uncompensated basis. If the state has less than 50 percent or has no interest at all in the statutory capital of an enterprise owned by it. if he owns the hostel, he is transferred on a compensatory basis. The conditions of the compensation base are defined as follows, and then the proper position of the Cabinet of Ministers will be further developed. What are we talking about? If you haven't done as you say, no work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u123	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u124	With capital repairs, they are simply subtracted from the amount of depreciation and thus are paid and transferred to municipal property. If immediate improvements have been made in one of the hostels, then they are included in the amount of this compensation. It's the only compromise that's working today, the mechanism with the local executive branch, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u125	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u126	I think I've exhausted the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u127	Please vote for the 70th Amendment of Danilenko. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:48:52]] For-37 Not supported. Any other changes? None. Then I put to the vote a proposal for a profile committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a law of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on improving the legal regulation of the implementation of housing rights of residents]] [[Registration number 8678]] Please vote. [[11:49:36]] For 268. The law is passed. Thank you. By factions, it's pretty clear here. The Party of Regions – 174, "BUT – "The Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense" – 24, the Communists – 24, "The Reforms for the Future" – 19, the People's Party – 20, non-factional – 7. The question is: the draft Act on Protection Activities. [[second reading]] [[Registration number 4824]] Reports the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Vasil Mikolaiovich Gritsak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u128	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, draft law on the protection of activities introduced by the People’s Deputies of Malishev, Beblaz, Novikov, Bugerak, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading of March 5, 2010, on the basis of 275 votes. [[No. 4824]] The bill prepared for consideration in the second reading in 2010 was submitted twice to the June 9 and July 7 Committees. As a result of his consideration by members of the committee, the scope and content of the proposals made to the draft legal entities for the legislative initiative were determined to send him to the Cabinet of Ministers for expert conclusion. [[161]] Following the expert conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers, the bill was reviewed at a committee meeting and a decision was taken on its further elaboration. At the present time, 180 legislative proposals, including 115, including 21 editorially and partially, are not included in the second reading of the bill’s table, which do not include 65 proposals that do not involve meaningful effort or do not comply with the provisions of Ukraine’s legislative acts. The Committee does not agree with the comments made on the bill of the Supreme Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as they do not contain sufficiently well-founded and well-defined proposals, but rather contain references to outdated and obsolete legislation, including legislation, which violates civil and economic laws, in particular in the field of protection of economic competition, certification of technical safeguards, status and guarantees of activity of professionals involved in protection activities, as well as misjudgement of the existence in the draft preferences for civil protection units of the State Security Service of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, in comparison with employees of private security entities, which are directly contested under article 9, paragraph 1, of the draft, which provides for the provision of a special order for the enforcement of the judiciary. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u129	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u130	The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine carried out an expert study on Ukrainian National Deputys of the Ministry of Education, Ukrainian Public Organizations and Professional Security, Ukrainian Trade Union experts and representatives of higher education institutions, the scientific institutions of the State, which resulted in joint changes to the bill and the removal of project positions, which resulted in some differences. The Committee's proposal to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Act on Protective Activity on second reading and generally as a law that takes effect six months from the date of publication, excluding from the text of part of the first article 14 of the draft word: "with regard to the particulars defined by this law." Please support the bill in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u131	Thank you. Yes, who insists on repairs? Is there one? None. The amendments that have been taken into account? They don't insist either. I have to bring to your attention the Chief Legal Authority, who writes, "The bill needs conceptual and systematic development." So it's good that you've been helped by creative organizations, but apparently they've been less helpful. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in the entire Protection Act. [[Registration number 4824]] Please vote. [[11:54:41]] For 247 The law is passed. The question is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the prevention of falsification of medical devices]] [[Registration number 7146]] He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Oliynik Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement law enforcement was discussed by the Ukrainian National MP Konovaluk in a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the prevention of falsification of medical devices]] The current nature of the bill poses no doubt, for the production and distribution of counterfeit drugs poses a threat to the life and health of Ukraine’s population. In doing so, there is considerable damage to legal producers of pharmaceuticals and the State Budget. The World Health Organization estimates that in developed countries, the percentage of counterfeiting is about 10 percent, and in third world countries, half of all medicines. In Ukraine, up to 50 percent of counterfeit drugs are sold. According to the State Health Ministry of Ukraine, 99 series of 68 appointments were detected and banned in Ukraine in 2009. In 2010, only in the first 8 months -- it's been 309 series out of 69 appointments of non-priced drugs. And this is just a calculation of the number of appointments and the series of drugs without specifying the total quantity and cost of such a forgery, because it's practically impossible to calculate them. Counterfeit drugs pose a high risk to the health and life of Ukrainian citizens, especially given that according to WHO, the largest number of counterfeits are antibiotics and 18 percent are psychotropic substances. [[42%]] The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences for the purpose of introducing the concept of "false medical devices" and introducing responsibility for the manufacture and distribution of such drugs. The bill under review was implemented in accordance with article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers that the first reading of the bill should be converted back to work. Instead, the bill is being drafted by the General Legal Authority without notice. In all, 33 amendments and proposals were made to the bill. Of these, 28 are fully or partially accounted for and only 5 are rejected. The Committee requests the consideration of the bill and supports the proposal of the General Legal Office, as well as the State Service from the medical authorities, to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u133	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Which of the authors of the amendments is rejected. Does he insist on taking them into account? None. Is it? Please, Carmazine's microphone. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin. As a whole, the committee was tolerably taken care of. There are only some such suggestions. Like what? Taking into account that article 227-1 "Production, purchase, transport, or storage for the purpose of sale, also sells marking, imports into Ukraine and exports from Ukraine of counterfeit medicines" from the Criminal Code should be removed. The committee took this amendment into account, it was Amendment 21. At the same time, the 27th amendment is being rejected. And this is about making changes to the Criminal Procedure Code on Continuity. Once this article is not available, it needs to be removed. Because of this, it is obvious that someone on the committee simply did not look after them. Look, please, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, it should be taken into account, it should definitely be your initiative. I'm just telling you you didn't see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u135	Yes, please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u136	Well, the committee expressed its position to reject. Of course, there were different judgements, but I did. But I say again, I express the position of the committee as opposed to the position that I have with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u137	Yes, what amendment should we vote on? Please, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u138	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that article 227-1, which was proposed in the first reading, has been deleted, has not been removed, has been deleted. So also in the case of 112 KPCs, also mentioning this article, 227 with badge 1 must be removed from the first text. That's it. It's just the purity of the apparition. It's the Criminal Code, it's the Criminal Procedure Code, it has to fit. If there is no such article, why do we write that it is to be considered by the police? She's just gone. Therefore, we must vote in favour of Amendment 27. And I would ask the whole room, it's not political, to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u139	Let's do this, dear fellows. If we pass the law, we'll give a mandate to the Legal, Legal, Legal, Technical, Legal, if there's really what you're saying. Although the law was imposed by law without notice. Yes, what other observations are there? You don't? I am voting on the proposal to adopt an entire law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on the prevention of falsification of medical devices, registration number 7146. Please vote. [[12:01:35]] For 257 Decision taken. Let's go back. We said lawyers would watch. If there's a contradiction, they'll take that into account. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've already said that there is such an assignment to the legal office and the committee in preparation for the signature. Dear colleagues, a break of up to 12 hours is announced for 32 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! Please come into the session room, we'll continue the meeting. Question is: Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine. [[on the settlement of the order of appeal or cassation]] Second reading. Registration number 6120. Reported to the head of the Committee on Justice, Julia Volodymyrovn Ljovczyn. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u141	On June 15, 2011, the Committee on Justice considered, at its second reading session, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine and finalized it, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the legal entities. [[on the settlement of the order of appeal or cassation]] Eleven amendments were made to the bill. Of these, 7 are counted, one is taken into account, and 3 is rejected. It should also be noted that the bill contained comments by the Chief Legal Authority. In particular, it is noted that it is necessary to provide for a bill on "Transitional positions" which would address the maintenance of the existing order for changes and additions to appeals and complaints brought to court and have become effective. We consider such comments to be appropriate. The committee proposes to take a decision and recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! Who made the remarks, and they're not counted, are they? With regard to the amendments taken into account, too? Yuri Anatolyevich does not insist, then I bet. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and the whole Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6120]] Please vote. [[12:34:11]] For 221 Show me the factions, please. Regional Party 159, Communists 25, Reforms for the Future 11, People's Party 19, non-fractional 7. Dear colleagues, please mobilize. Who's to go back to the vote? [[12:34:49]] For the 250. We're back. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine in the second reading of the Act. [[Registration number 6120]] Vote. [[12:35:16]] For 261 Copy that. Let's take a second look at the President's proposals. Dear colleagues, there is one problem. In fact, according to the information we have here, Yuri Miroshnichenko is a healer and a reporter. But he's said to be ready to report, and he's on his way out. So let's move on, let's take this situation into account, that the person is leaving the hospital. When he shows up, we'll move on to this chapter. Is there no objection? The question is, Bill 8616 on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations for Ukraine in the World. But there are, dear colleagues, a call for a profile committee to move the matter forward. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Then the issue of the recommendation of Parliamentary hearings of "The Ukrainians in the world" is passed on. [[8616]] The following question is the draft Decision on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "State policy to address the problem of return and compensation for lost citizens' savings". [[depreciated]] [[Registration number 8618]] Reports on behalf of Yegorenko Tamara Vasilovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, on April 13, 2011, Parliamentary hearings were held in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on "The State Policy on Recovering and Compensating the Loss of Savings of Citizens". [[depreciated]] As a result of the parliamentary hearings, a working group set up in the committee was presented with a general proposal for hearing participants and a draft Resolution on Recommendations for Parliamentary Hearings, which were agreed upon. The Committee on Social Policy and Work considered the draft decision, supported it, and submitted it to the Supreme Council for adoption as a whole. In particular, the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation proposes: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will immediately submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a revised draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for the Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings on the Establishment of Registers of Investors and Insurers and Insured Persons. The other one. To make and submit to the Supreme Council a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of the Savings of Ukrainian Citizens on the implementation of an effective mechanism for the return of savings to citizens. During the preparation of the Ukrainian National Budget 2012 bill, the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance will provide a budget programme to pay off the State's liabilities for the lost citizens' savings in the USSR Savings Bank and the government's securities of the former USSR of at least 3 billion dollars, with a further annual increase in the amount recorded. Define a mechanism for the recovery of Ukrainian citizens' cash savings from the institution of the Bank of Ukraine and the former Ukraine during 1992-1994. To invite the President of Ukraine to discuss at a special meeting of the Economic Reform Committee with the President of Ukraine the development of savings and legislative programmes to ensure its implementation. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour will set up a permanent working group within the committee to ensure return and compensation for lost, undervalued citizens' savings, as well as an advisory body with the participation of representatives of the public. Given the above, please support the draft decree, registry 8618, and accept it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u144	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u146	Tamara Vasilovna, return to the rostrum. Yes, please, five minutes. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u147	Dear Tamaro Vasilovna, you have made it clear that the positions are defined: and what to do at the level of the state, and at the level of the committee, and the proposals, even to the President. And here's a question for you. Please tell me if it's predicted in the future, because we're creating a working group there, it's our committee, in the future, to intervene in some way, when we're looking at the budget, to put such amounts into the budget, even though somehow we're going to return savings to those people who have the first need. And can we still go back to the subject of compensation for goods and services, because not just money, but compensation for goods and services of undervalued savings. How do you think this should be done? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u148	Can I answer that, please? Can I answer that for you? In my opinion, that's really what you're saying, that's very fair. Because people who had their savings today are some kind of people. They don't have exactly what our country can pay for these savings. So I think that these issues need to be considered and considered at the level of our state and, as we said, the President. It's an important topic, it's painful, people are waiting and hoping it'll be like the President said it would be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u149	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I listened carefully to your report and read the recommendations. Everything is basically normal, but there are two buts. First. Now people are talking about what's happening and what's happened in the last few years in banks, in the banking system. And you know it. Last night, I signed a 10 o'clock call for the Nadra Bank. They tell everyone that they're returning everything, and they're not returning anything back to people, and they're not even responding to people's requests after six months. We don't have a prosecutor's office in the country, she doesn't have control, she doesn't have supervision. So, if it is necessary, you think you should add the Attorney General here, turn to the National Bank of Ukraine. Because the National Bank is looking calmly at the fact that there is a bank called Nadra that doesn't fulfil its obligations, and it should cover up such banks. I just called one bank because I only signed it yesterday, and there's a lot of banks like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u151	Thank you. I agree with you. It's really such a painful subject, because it's a subject that people really need to have money of their own, they want to know. guaranteed, yes, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u152	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u153	Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u154	Taran, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u155	An honourable reporter, something from the savings recovery program came up with a very important question after the return of deposits to fraudulent trust investors. We make it look like it never happened. In Ukraine, 2-4 million citizens who have suffered from bad luck have to be resolved somehow. We make it appear that it is simply impossible to solve. I want to remind you that back in 2002, with the help of Julia Timoshenko's program, it's not a pierre, it's true, and you know it, it was returned to the fraudulent investors of the trusts of millions, millions, and some money was returned, and a mechanism was developed. This wonderful experience, where did he get lost? Today, Timoshenko is in prison for nothing, people are not getting money back, and we can't close our eyes to this problem, this problem is very painful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u156	This problem is painful, but the problem is quite different.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u157	Please, Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u158	Please tell me I don't understand the number one offer in relation to the Cabinet of Ministers. What it takes to submit another bill in order to create a register of savings depositors. The state spent 60 million dollars creating this register. This register at the Savings Bank of Ukraine is available. This register is as though owned by this bank, bearing some signs of commercialism. And please tell me why else. I know there's a discussion that this list should be open, it should be owned by the Cabinet of Ministers, for example, I don't understand this position. So what is another register that needs to be created if, once again, 60 million is spent, the Savings Bank and the National Bank have confirmed that the register of all these people does not have just the funds? What is another law needed to create an additional register?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u159	Thank you. For a year, this register was made in our country, and this topic was no longer published.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u160	Thank you, sit down, please. Do you want to talk about it? Sign up. Let's get away from the factions, please. Yes, please, Stoyan, behind him is the Digger.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! Of course, when we held parliamentary hearings, we again wanted to draw attention to this painful problem, the problem of returning savings. Unfortunately, since the adoption of the law, when the State has assumed responsibility for saving our fellow countrymen, we have failed to come to a serious solution. I recall that as the head of the subcommittee, I had to make more than 15 suggestions or make a number of suggestions. It was also envisaged that privatization would restore savings. There was also compensation for goods and services, and this is a good offer, but it is said to be a train and now there. And what governments in the bar, they say, are betting shoulders or 200 million, or 300, or 400 returns, is not solving the problem, because we know billions of savings, billions of dollars of money, the guilty state. So when we had the parliamentary hearings, we tried to find another way to pay off the savings. And this is the mechanism we defined in our recommendations. It determines that we would ask at the President's level to make sure that we ask at the level of the government to do so. When Arzewittin asked questions about the voter register, well, it's kind of a weird, respectable fellow. We're talking about billions, 130, 120, 110 billion, and we really don't know how much money people have on books, and how many books these people have, are 2, 3 and 4. So under the pressure of our committee earlier, we had the bank make such a register, but we didn't see it as a committee that's in charge of these issues. So, of course, we made the right proposal, or if this is a register, let us hand it over to the Cabinet of Ministers and not only to the Cabinet of Ministers, but also to our Committee on Social Policy and Labour, so that we can control how this is done, these savings are returned. The second and most important thing is to look for the cost of the savings. There's definitely a lot to look at here. And part of the privatization is definitely part of the budget, and perhaps it's time, although I understand that the Constitutional Court is critical of us, to define the category of fellow countrymen, the category of investors that need first savings. I think they're people of the oldest age, they're people of the loneliest age. Let's say we go with this kind of principled mechanism, let's say people who make up about 5,000 or 10,000 dollars, which is a step-by-step definition. And according to our recommendations, we're going to set up a committee. I know there's an assignment for me to lead this task force, more specifically. We'll control the practical execution of the savings return. So please support our recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u162	Yuri Prokopchuk, BUT faction. Behind him is Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u163	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. I want to say, really, an important topic. But once again, we're translating it into a hearing, into any other form that just talks about it. Right now, it's literally very nice that Yuri Carmazin said, and there's a lot of such references when there are different banks that say that they're going to return the savings, there's actually nothing going on. I've put in a bill directly to bring about at least administrative responsibility, or possibly criminal responsibility, for those who, after receiving compensation from the state, have "punished" all of these funds in offshore, which has led to the emergence of 21 billion people in Ukraine. And where did this money come from? By the way, the Timoshenko government, which is being illegally judged today, which is being illegally tortured, took concrete steps when the first thousand were being allocated, and this program was to work. So, to my belief, little is just listening, there is something that needs to be done: it introduces specific bills, it supports and leads them to the end of the line so that Ukrainian citizens get their valuable savings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u164	Please, Stanislav Arzvitin, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u165	Dear National Deputies! Indeed, people’s trust in power, the confidence of the population in its economic reforms. This is the success of solving all problems in our country. And in all countries, the main investor in his country, or economic reforms, is the population itself. Today, in the hands of our Ukrainians, according to the National Bank, almost 450 billion dollars. Please tell me, what international currency do we need when we have this kind of scale of Ukrainian money in our country? We don't have trust, it's really true, and it's not because the banking system works so badly. I would not want to continue this subject, but distrust of banks is a lack of confidence in the state, its economic and political reforms. Many have now asked questions about my colleagues: What about the trust of today’s banks? I wanted to tell you that the state has taken very good steps, first of all, to capitalize on those troubled banks that we're talking about, and Nadra, and Kruprombank, and Rodowdink, and Kievbank. And you know, yesterday on our committee, we were discussing the creation of a sanitizer bank in our state. And on the basis of "Parentage" over a month, maybe two, there'll be a recovery bank where all toxic, or bad, troublesome assets will be transferred in relation to the "Kyiv Bank" in relation to the "Kyiv Bank" in relation to the "Kruzzbank," these banks will be cleared. And I think next year they're going to be offered by the state to be bought out by new investors. And I think in this way that these problems in our country with these modern problem banks, the modern confidence in the banking system, we're still going to solve next year. The Nadra Bank has its own investor, it's already working full time. Of course, not all of us are able to get back into that psychological rush, but I think it's a problem of time. As far as this decision is concerned. Of course, I will vote for her, but believe me, she's not carrying any money. There's nothing new here. Such decisions were made five years, and 10 years, and 15 years ago. I spoke at these hearings, and I suggested concrete steps. Step one. We have to let those who have invested their money in Savings make owners and give them the right to either stay owner or buy it back for a certain period of time. Next. I said that we should take the courage and say the true purchasing power of the money that was put into Savings and therefore determine the real debt, not the political debt that today is the three budgets of our country, because we're going to be talking about this problem for another 30 years if we don't take concrete, economically based, not political steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u166	Thank you. Question completed. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt a decision recommending parliamentary hearings on "On State policy to address the problem of return and compensation for the loss of citizens' savings", registration number 8618. Please vote. [[12:55:06]] For 265 Thank you. Decision accepted. Let's take another look at one of the rulings and then go back to the president's proposals. The question is: a draft Decision on the 2011 Supreme Council Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government, registration number 8687. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:55:50]] For 215 Offer supported. Reported by the Secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Najdjonov Andry Mihajlovich. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, in 2003, the Supreme Council established the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government. A total of 10 such prizes are awarded annually, with a cash share of 1,360 bracelets each. The Committee reviewed the documents submitted by the regional councils and by all Ukrainian youth society organizations, their conformity with the requirements of the Supreme Council decision on the award of the Youth Prize for the Development of Parliamentarianism and Local Self-Government, and proposes to award the prize in 2011 to the candidates identified in the draft relevant draft regulation. Please support the Committee's proposal to award a prize and adopt the draft order as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u168	Thank you, Andrey Mikhailovich, sit down. Shall we vote? I am voting on the 2011 verdict of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. [[Registration number 8687]] Please vote. [[12:57:27]] For 262 It's been decided. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the section entitled "Review with the proposals of the President of Ukraine." The question is: Ukrainian Organic Production Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine since May 20. [[Registration number 7003]] There's an offer to consider a reduced procedure, please support. [[12:58:12]] For 209 Supported. Report by President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko, please. Get Marina Perstenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u169	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Organic Production Act on 21 April 2011. The president of Ukraine rejected the prescribed law for such reasons. The text of the law shows that, contrary to the constitutional requirement for legislative regulation of legal principles and guarantees of business, competition rules do not introduce a comprehensive legislative regulation of business activities in the area of organic production. It deals mainly with the distribution of powers between executive authorities in the field. The main mass of issues that are of fundamental importance to the organization and implementation of organic production must be regulated by law. The law does not define the criteria and standards for eligibility of land belonging to agricultural land and according to its agri-environmental status. With regard to the law proposed to regulate individual issues, it should be pointed out that a number of provisions of the law do not correspond to both the Constitution and the fundamental provisions of the relevant areas of legal regulation of the Law of Ukraine. The law introduces a different approach to product certification from the general one, and solutions to the same issues rely on various executive authorities. In summary, it should be noted that the law that came to be signed does not provide a systematic solution to the entire set of issues in organic production, does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the confirmation of compliance, on the basic principles of State oversight, on control in the field of economic activity, on the free system in the field of economic activity, the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 10 May 1993.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u170	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u171	The Ukrainian Cabinet Decree of 10 May 1993 on Standardization and Certification, which is why it cannot be supported. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u172	Thank you. From the committee, the head of the subcommittee on agrarian politics and land relations, Perestenko Marina Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u173	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! At a meeting of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations on 14 June 2011, the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Organic Production Act were considered as a whole as the Law of Ukraine on 24 April of this year. [[Registration number 7003]] The committee supported the comments made by the President of Ukraine on this law. That is, in the event that the Ukrainian Organic Production Act becomes effective, its position causes competition in laws that can be applied in practice to the same relationships of different laws and to different solutions to the same issues. That, in turn, would not create a level playing field, but would have a negative impact on rights for legitimate interests of operators. The committee members are confident that such a law is essential. But a large number of comments indicate that it needs to be processed very carefully, taking into account all the comments, so that the law can work not only for the benefit of citizens but also for the assistance of Ukrainian citizens, the producers of organic products. Taking into account the noted, as well as the conclusion of the Main Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which also proposes to take into account the proposal of the President of Ukraine, the Committee has decided to accept the proposal of the President of Ukraine and to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the Organic Production Act. [[Registration number 7003]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u174	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, dear colleagues, the committee reported. He agrees with the President's proposals. The president proposes rejecting the Ukrainian Organic Production Act. [[Registration number 7003]] The first is the proposal to vote on the President. I'm voting on the President's proposal to reject the Organic Production Act. [[Registration number 7003]] Please vote. [[13:03:42]] For 252 Decision taken. The law is rejected. Let us consider the following questions: The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Act on Shareholder Associations and Other Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Restoration at the Legislative Level of the Type of Association "Open Shareholder Society" with proposals by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8174]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:04:23]] For 207 Offer supported. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council, Yuri Miroshnichenko, will report, please. Prepare the Europeans.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u175	Dear voters, dear colleagues! On 8 April 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Act on Shareholder Associations and Other Legislative Acts on Restoration at the Legislative Level of the Type of Association "Open Shareholder Society". According to the President of Ukraine, this law cannot be supported for such reasons. First, Ukraine's Shareholder Society Act, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 September 2008, introduced a new approach to regulating relations related to the activities of shareholders. In particular, there has been a division of stock companies by type into public stock companies and private stock companies, article 5 of the law. The proposed law nullifies the concept of legal regulation of shareholders' activities, introduced by the Act on Shareholder Associations of Ukraine, and is a visible step back in the development of Ukrainian legislation on the way it is adapted to European Union legislation. In addition, the existence of open stock companies will essentially be an indulgence for those shareholders who have failed to comply with the Ukrainian Act on Shareholders. It's about changing the name. Such an approach is unacceptable, since it gives rise to legal nihilism and disregard for the requirements of the law by entities that are subject to such requirements and violates the constitutional principle of the rule of law, this is part of article 8 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is a priority in the rule of law of Ukraine. On the basis of the above, the Head of State proposes to reject the Ukrainian Act amending the Act on Shareholder Associations and other legislative acts of Ukraine to restore to the legislative level the name of the type of association "open Shareholder Society". Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u176	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee is Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on June 14, this year, reviewed the President's proposals and recommended their support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u178	Thank you for being so concise. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the committee supports the President's proposals, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration also agrees with these proposals. I am voting on the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations and other Ukrainian legislative acts to restore to the legislative level the name of the company's Open Shareholder Society. [[Registration number 8174]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u179	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u180	Look at the Rules. Vote. [[13:07:57]] For 239. The President's proposal is supported. The law is rejected. Let us consider the following questions: The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Strengthening Responsibility of Officials of State Authorities and Local Self-Government Authorities, with proposals by the President of Ukraine. [[Bill 7497 registration number]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:08:38]] For 211 Decision of the Supreme Council, Yuri Anatolyovich. It just takes 150 votes, and there's 211. Reported by a representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich. Be prepared by the Committee of Olivenic Volodymyr Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u181	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honourable voters, honourable colleagues, adopted on 11 May 2011 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law "To amend certain legislative acts to increase the responsibility of officials, public authorities and local self-government authorities" No. cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. The law on signature is supplemented by the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences by a new article 166, marking 14 on the imposition of administrative responsibility for violations by the regulatory authorities of Ukraine's legislation during the adoption of regulatory acts. [[Subparagraph 3, paragraph 2 of SectionI]] In this regard, it should be noted that under the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity, the regulatory body is not only a number of government authorities, where decisions are approved by one-person but also by college authorities. So in the law that came to the signature, administrative responsibility is introduced, in particular, in the case of regulatory college bodies such as: The Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, etc. Such an approach does not correspond to the standard of part two of article 61 of the Constitution, which makes the individual’s legal responsibility individual. At the same time, only natural persons may be subject to administrative responsibility, taking into account the situation of article 12 of the Code. Thus, restrictions that are collegiately adopted by regulatory acts cannot be subject to administrative responsibility for offences provided for in article 166, which is marked 14 of the Code. In turn, being held accountable for failing to comply with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation during regulatory acts will violate the principle of social justice in terms of administrative responsibility. In view of what has been taught, the President considers it appropriate to refrain from being introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u182	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u183	I'm sorry, there's a lot of ground here, but given the reduced procedure, I have to cut it down. Taking into account what has been said, the President is of the view that it is appropriate to refrain from introducing in the Code of Administrative Offences and to exclude from the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Strengthening of Responsibility of Officials, Public Authorities and Local Self-Governmental Authorities, a provision to supplement the Code with a new Article 166, which is marked 14. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u184	Thank you. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Olijnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u185	Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Strengthening Responsibility of Officials, Government Authorities and Local Self-Government Authorities, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, was adopted on 12 May of the current year. The purpose of the bill is to establish a set of penalties for infringements of the law in the area of entrepreneurial activities, such as legislation on national regulatory policy, the procedure for issuing documents of a permissive nature by the authorities, their officials. On June 9, 2011, the President rejected the law and made appropriate proposals for individual shortcomings. The committee carefully examined the comments of the President of Ukraine and the proposals he made were fully taken into account. In this way, your view is presented by the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Strengthening Responsibility of Officials, Government Authorities and Local Self-Government Authorities. The committee considers the proposed drafting of this law to be approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u186	Have a seat, please. The profile committee supports the President's proposals. The scientific and expert board also recommends that the President's proposals be taken into account. We'll vote them. The President's first proposal to exclude the figures 166 is put to the vote. Rec.14. Please vote. [[13:14:10]] For the 250. [[B in m in s a l in]] All by the Rules. Change the rules. 250, supported. Once again, respect the Rules, don't wave your hands. The president's second proposal. Delete section I, paragraph 3, of the law. Please vote. [[13:14:44]] For 253 The President's proposal is supported. The third offer. Subparagraph 5 of section I, paragraph 2, of the law reads as follows: "Fire. Article 221 after the digits 188.pr.38, add to the digits 188.pr. 39." Please vote in favour of the President's third proposal. [[13:15:22]] For 254 Supported. And the fourth offer. Numbers 166.14 exclude. Prim. 14. Please vote. [[13:15:46]] For 253 Offer supported. All proposals are supported. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening the responsibility of officials of the public authorities and local self-government authorities, taking into account the President's proposals. [[Registration number 7497]] Please vote. [[13:16:25]] For 254 The law was passed with the President's proposals. The question is: Ukraine's Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on clarifying provisions on granting adopters a leave to adapt an adopted child, with proposals from the President. Registration number 7004. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:17:03]] For 216 Offer supported. Reported by President Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich, to prepare for Lukyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u187	Dear voters, dear colleagues, you know that on May 19th of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the provision of maternity leave for the adaptation of an adopted child. Registration number 7004. This law proposes to amend part one of article 182 of the Ukrainian Labour Code and part two of article 17 of the Ukrainian Vacation Act. [[concerning the granting to persons who adopted children up to the age of three years of their right to social leave in connection with pregnancy and childbirth]] After careful consideration of his work, the President of Ukraine returned the law to Parliament with his proposals. According to the Head of State, the law cannot be signed for the following reasons: first, the proposed innovations do not comply with the Ukrainian law on compulsory State social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and funeral expenses. Secondly, the amendments proposed by law to part two of article 182 of the Labour Code and parts of the first article 18 marked 1 of the Ukrainian Vacation Act have been challenged. Thirdly, the proposal cannot be supported and proposed by law: a change to part one of article 209 of the Ukrainian Family Code. In this regard, the head of State considers it appropriate to refrain from making such changes. The President of Ukraine proposes the Ukrainian Act to amend some Ukrainian legislation to clarify the provisions on granting adopters leave to adapt the adopted child to reject. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u188	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Catherine Eugenyevna Lukyanova
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on July 6th reviewed the proposals of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on May 19, 2011. [[on clarifying the provisions concerning the granting of maternity leave for the adoption of an adopted child]] The main scientific and expert office believes that the proposals of the President of Ukraine refer to formal contradictions between the adopted Ukrainian Law and other legislative acts. So given the social significance of adoption, the scientific and expert management is proposing not to reject the law, but to present it in a new edition, taking into account the comments expressed by the management. The outcome of the President's consideration of the Committee's proposals is to support the President's proposals on rejection. I would like to point out that, before considering the bill in the first reading, the committee recommended that it be accepted as a basis, in view of the fact that, in furthering the second reading, it would be possible to make a very valid addition to the proposed version, so that it would be possible to improve legislation in this sense. But the Supreme Council adopted the law as a basis and, I emphasize, as a whole, it was given the President's completely predictable veto. I am convinced that it is necessary to listen to the committee’s point of view and not to rush into unwarranted decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u190	Yes, reports have been heard. The president's proposal is to reject the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Anatolyovich! Yuri Anatolyovich! Dear colleagues, for Yuri Anatoliyovich and for those who may hear him, although there are almost no accomplices in the Hall, I would like to remind you of the relevant articles of the Supreme Council Rules: there is no discussion on the issue of the President's veto. So do not scream in vain, save your energy for the following laws. I put to the vote the Ukrainian Law on Rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u191	You've already adopted the text of the law. The president told you that you're all wrong together. The president told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u192	Ukraine's Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on clarifying the provisions on granting adoption leave for the adoption of an adopted child. [[Registration number 7004]] Please vote. [[13:21:46]] For 252 The decision is taken, the law is passed. Try it, Yuri Anatoliovich, you can't say anything like that. We are considering: the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[about wearing uniforms, using distinctions and symbols]] Re-reading. [[Registration number 4585]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. [[13:22:32]] For 217 Offer supported. Reported to the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich, because he is also one of the co-authors of the bill. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u193	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence at its meeting on 6 July considered a revised bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine submitted by Ukraine's National Deputies, Gritsak, Beblaz, Zarubinski, Petruk, Babulov and Kuzmuk. [[about wearing uniforms, using distinctions and symbols]] The draft law proposes to prohibit the wearing of military uniforms, forms of clothing of other military forms and marks of distinction and marks, namely, pagons, Shevrons, belligerents, such a favorite species for all Ukrainians as lamps, gazebos and others, as approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and other normative documents, persons who do not have legal rights to do so. The draft Law also proposes to establish administrative responsibility for the illegal wearing of uniforms and distinguishing marks by persons who do not have the right. By amending the Code of Administrative Offences. It is also important that the Law’s draft law strengthens the concept of formal clothing, distinguishing marks, and the concept of camouflage coloring. The adoption of this act does not require additional financial costs from the State budget of Ukraine. During the discussion of the bill at a committee meeting, members of the committee unanimously supported and endorsed the idea. As a result of the first reading, recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a revised draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the wearing of uniforms, the use of distinguishing marks and symbols on the basis of the comments made when preparing it for second reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u194	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Do you want to talk about it? Sign up. Alexander Ivanovich, no questions asked. Thank you. Zarabinski, behind him is Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u195	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, I would also like to support clearly the authors of the legislative initiative and the decision of the professional Main Committee on the non-admission of things that are wrong. I'm sorry for the abstract explanation, but they're wrong. Improper from the ethical point of view, wrong from the point of view of common sense and wrong from the point of view of those who have earned the right to wear stars, chases, and cherons. They earned the right to stay in schools and at universities. They earned the right to have experience carrying military, police, and so forth. We're not against public organizations. And let public organizations have their own distinguishing marks, their own ties, whatever they have, whatever they have, if it doesn't break the law, but their own. But. If the people who carry military, other services involved in law enforcement bodies are law enforcement officials, then their distinguishing marks should not be borne by those who do not deserve it, I'm sorry to say that those who do not have the right. I know that there are some observations from science and science. Perhaps some in preparation for the second reading could be both discussed or agreed. For example, it says here that such an editorial leaves, more specifically, no possibility to use military clothing in cinemas, theaters, and now a fashionable phenomenon such as the reconstruction of historical events. But I think you could predict in preparing for the second reading how they can ensure that. Is that principled? The principle is that of Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk and the authors of the legislative initiative. I suggest you support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u196	Thank you. Yuri Prokopchuk. After him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u197	Yuri Prokopchuk, Equinox. Of course, the concept of the bill itself has a really powerful basis. I mean, it makes sense. Because today, when you look at how many people in Ukraine are in pursuit and, sorry, with all due respect, and foresters, environmentalists, now miners are wearing, well, prosecutors are already walking with lamps. Well, you're not going anywhere, generals. And I remember when the garrison commander, who had not yet received the general, was in charge of the garrison, meeting with seven or eight generals. At the same time, some of them still question whether they served in the armed forces or other military formations at all. So, of course, in support of Cossack formations, so that it doesn't turn against them, they have to wear the uniforms they have set up, but in all others, they need to give strict order, because today both the colonel and the general form wear anyone, including those who have absolutely never had a bearing on the service that they illegally received military titles, special titles, and then they were promoted through any structures that are not understood. In addition, what is also the threat that this appearance poses today to organizations that carry pursuits and are actually raiding groups. They also bear, there, both single and distinguishing marks, and have also directly guaranteed by the law on public organizations some right to bear arms. That's why we need to put order in it, and this bill needs to be supported, and we need to put order where today, in the organs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, different birds -- the Griffons, the Falcons, the Berkutites, that's different, with different forms of spending, and that's all to be sewn. You have to go back to the system that was, and these units cancel out, and let them go in business that is not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u198	Jaroslav Suhi. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, why did I sign up to make a warning? And finally, this law is rereading the first reading. The fact is, with the introduction of the requirements of this law, we will have great problems in Ukraine. Just during independence, there were so many patterns of uniforms that it would not be possible to bring it together or to ban it at the legislative level. Here the colleagues have already said, the State Tax Administration has its own clothes, the woodsmen have its own clothes, the nature service, the railways, and then there are military formations in the same DPA, a group of morgues in the mask show. Few things are in shape, including assault rifles, with warheads. This creates a threat to the development of civil society when a group of bad people are being invaded by a peaceful settlement, putting everyone on the floor and doing something, something is being sought out. Soon, we will dress, arm, and protect our homes from such unsolicited guests. So we need to find out what this is about: The form that copies military service is different. I want to remind you: for a long time in Ukraine, they were being parasiteized by so-called group of Cossacks who represented themselves in the form of some sort of sanitary inspection, they were catching visitors, they were being forced into a pipe by some kind of hose, they were saying they were checking the T.O. and they were picking up money, they were in shape. Their form was like a copy similar to that of the State Inspectorate, and their scepter was self-inspecting. And by the way, their words were, and jargon are just like autoinspections. Because, for example, when I entered the Crimea, a strange man stopped me because he said that I didn’t even get paid to fly through the Crimea, not that you were there and everything. Clearly, then, this law needs to be adopted, but for the second reading, it needs to be worked out in detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u200	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u201	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I support this bill and I will vote for it. But I would like to take advantage of the fact that today there are representatives of the Defence Committee to consider at their meeting how it could have happened that on Ukraine's Independence Day the entire police, who have a state-of-the-art dress, was dressed in everyday clothes. Well, maybe they don't need to, you know, cut the budget, then don't have to wear the parade if the Independence Day isn't a holiday for them. They were preparing for the slaughter, they put on masks. So, obviously, right here, where you're proposing article 7, where part three, which gives you the ability to mask in the area, has no questions. But masking people with masks so people can't show who's from the Bars, who's from the Griffon or who's from the Barquette or who's out there, who's been beating them or who's been taking any action. That's why I want to tell you that the popular Focus magazine has published such things, this is our President. And I'm ashamed to see it because it's the M.S.A. Orders, the D.A.'s Office, the B.S.A. Many have faked everything, but it's a banal situation: they're taking a car into the M.V.S. downtown, and it's being driven by a major of the militia for six months, and the person is coming to me, and I'm writing to the General of the Horoshkovsky Army, and I'm getting a receipt. Then why the army, then why the army generals? I'm going to vote in favour of this law, only it's too bad that we didn't figure out how the internal armies ended up in Chrystec, why there were autosacs standing right next to the mayor's office, why we're showing people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u202	Thank you. Question completed. I put to the vote a proposal by the committee to adopt the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the wearing of uniforms, the use of distinguishing marks and symbols. [[Registration number 4585]] Please vote. [[13:35:14]] For 263 Adopted in the first reading of the law. There is a question: the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to strengthen the control over the conclusion of mortgages and mortgages on land and their rights. [[Bill registration number 7539]] There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to be considered. Please be supportive. [[13:35:54]] For 210 Supported. The first deputy head of the State Agency for Land Resources, Kadomski Artem Markovich, will report. Please, two minutes. Get ready for Tereshku Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to strengthen the control over the conclusion of contracts and mortgages for land and land rights developed by the State Agency on the initiative and approval of the Inter-Knowing Commission on the issue of countering illegal takeover and capture of enterprises. [[Registration number 7539]] The project is intended to amend part one of article 133 of the Ukraine Land Code and part three of article 18 of the Ukrainian Mortgage Act on the obligation to assign cadastral number to the land area when it is transferred or entitled to a mortgage. The law is largely technical. It provides for the accounting of land. He's in contact with the Ukrainian Civil Code, the Law on Mortgage, the Law on State Land cadastre on registering real estate rights, it's to prevent the possibility of mortgages in two or more banking institutions, and to minimize markets. There are proposals that are very good scientific and expert management, which in general can be taken into account in the second reading. In view of the above, please support us in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u204	Thank you, Artem Markovich. From the committee, the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u205	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations in March reviewed the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to strengthen the monitoring of the conclusion of agreements on the deposit and mortgage of land and rights, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The law provides for amendments to Ukraine’s Land Code and the Mortgage Act. The proposed bill provides for the possibility of transferring land to the mortgage only if the land is allocated to the cadastral number. Our committee notes that the adoption of the bill will bring the land legislation and the Law on Mortgage into line. There's a reference to the scientific and scientific administration of the Supreme Council. The points are correct. And science and expertise, and our committee believes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of further development, taking into account the observations made by the Scientific and Scientific Administration. So please support the bill, accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u206	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Do you want to talk about it? Is it? Who? If you want, raise your hand. Please sign up. Dry, Prokopchuk. Please, Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u207	Dear colleagues! As the first deputy head of the State Land Agency, Artem Markovich Kadomski, rightly said, this law is indeed of a technical nature. It contributes to the mortgage being assigned to the land area by the cadastre number. So I'm making a proposal instead of discussing a perfectly clear bill, and I'm proposing to accept it as a basis and as a whole, because there's nothing to add: either a cadastral number is assigned, or a cadastral number is not assigned. What are the conversations here? Unless someone wants to talk in general about land affairs, cadastres, and so forth, this is different. Yeah, about the stakes, like the flowers, the numbers. It's a very different matter. What's specific about the bill. I propose to vote for him as a whole and not just as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u208	It's a knock-off.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u209	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u210	Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, I agree that if you consider the proposals of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which proposes clarification, you could have accepted it in the first and in general, but, really, I think this bill, if we have bills to draft on a single sentence of land, we will go so far. So for me, it's a fundamentally important opportunity that, if we've approved the State Land Cadastre Act, we should not make one sentence at a time, but finally make an automated system of the State Land Cadastre, figure out what we have, what we have, what we have. As we look at, we inventory the land, then we'll understand that we have to do a differentiated land tax, and those who have accumulated hundreds of thousands of acres of land are waiting to do what with them, what number the moratorium will be suspended from, obviously they should either return this land to state property, or pay taxes not by 70 dollars, or 60 dollars a year, but pay the corresponding taxes properly. So I went to the government site of our state-owned enterprise in the government that works, about the State Land Cadastre. And here they ask us that, citizens of honor, if you are reading us, tell us, do you believe that an automated system of the State Land cadastre will be built in Ukraine? It's in government, yes, what the people say: 54 -- no, we don't, of course; and 24 -- we believe. So if on a government site where employees work, people do not believe that an automated system will ever be built, what are we talking about? What market are we talking about? So our proposal is that, my friends, let's do what we have to do. That is, after the adoption of the law that is, today we need to understand the state of the Ukrainian land. Stop these declarations about it being sold on January 1st and state the order and state the order. Without an automated Earth cadastre system, there can be no order in the earth market. So we demand how quickly this work is done and we are waiting for our agency not with proposals in a single sentence, but with a report on how they perform the tasks that we have adopted in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u212	Thank you. There is a proposal to support the opinion of a professional committee and to adopt the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to strengthen controls over the conclusion of mortgage and land mortgage agreements and their rights. Registration number 7539. Please vote. [[13:43:10]] For 258. The decision is supported. The Law was adopted in the first reading. Yes, there is. How can we do so in general and with observations, and who will then take them into account? Yeah, yeah. The committee has expressed its opinion, so let us listen to the experts. Dear colleagues, we're coming up with proposals, quiet but persistent, that we should work with you without interruption for an hour and finish our consideration of the issues and the evening meeting. I am putting to the vote an offer to work until the issues are resolved and not to hold an evening meeting. Please support this proposal. [[13:44:12]] For 221 Who's to say. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, calm down! Dear colleagues! And so we're going to work. But consider what we could do within the hour, and so in 15 minutes for two hours we'll take a break, and then we'll come back to work for half an hour. Who's in charge of getting back to voting? [[13:44:55]] For 241 We're back. Once again, dear colleagues, I can't see. We're back. I don't see any problem here. We're going to consider all of these issues because there's not much left.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u213	Two factions want to speak on the subject. the rules of procedure and the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u214	There's a problem. Say it. I would like to put to the vote the proposal to work without interruption until all matters are considered and not to hold an evening session, but to hold committee meetings. Please vote. [[13:45:40.]] For 242 Offer supported. The draft Act amending article 23 of the Act on Shareholder Associations is pending. [[about the release of shares]] [[Registration number 7509]] There is a motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[13:46:10]] For 196 Offer supported. Reported to Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Makucha Vladimir Alexiyyovich, prepare for Voropeyeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u215	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! According to the current Act of Ukraine, "The Shareholder Society" in particular, part of the first article 23 provides that in the case of stockholders, securities are paid by money or by agreement between the company and the investor, property rights, non-proprietary rights, which have monetary value, securities other than debt securities, whose issuers are the issuer, and other property. In the case of this article, one hundred percent of the shares in the statutory capital are treated in a mixed manner, especially in cases where the issuer of debt issuances of emission securities, or domestic government bonds, is a State in the Ministry of Finance, and the acquirer of the shareholder association is also the founder of the state. The draft law amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Society was developed by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry with a view to clarifying article 23 and avoiding double treatment in application of the provisions of this article. The bill provides for amendments to article 23 of the Act on Shareholders' Associations, to complete the first part of the first paragraph after the words “except for debt securities, the issuer of which is the issuer and the promissory notes”, with the words “except for government bonds in cases provided for by law”. The adoption of the bill will allow for the avoidance of double treatments when implementing article 31 of the Law on the State Budget 2011 which provides that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will grant the right to issue internal government loan bonds with further acquisitions into government property in exchange for these bonds in the additional issue of the National Shareholder Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u216	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u217	Within the scope is provided and approved by the company's financial plan. With this in mind, we ask that we support the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 23 of the Act on Shareholders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u218	Thank you. He will report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u219	This bill was considered by the Committee on Economic Policy on 14 June this year. I would like to, and the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt it on first reading as a basis. I would like to comment on the bill itself and the rapporteur before me. Not only does the law clarify the technical aspects, the law specifically permits the formation of the statutory capital of individual shareholders after its adoption through government bonds. What does that mean? So far, there has been a direct ban under the Shareholder Society Act on the formation of the statutory capital of equity societies through debt issuance securities to which government bonds are included, including government bonds. This law will allow it to do so. Is that bad or good? As a practice, this cannot be done. As a mass practice, this cannot be done. But this is where the right reservation is made. I believe that this should be done only in certain exceptional cases by individual laws. So you and I will be in the room to determine which equity society will be allowed to form the statutory capital of the State bond. The wording of the text itself is somewhat inadequate, and the Chief Expert Office also draws attention to this. Therefore, the proposal to accept it as a basis and then to correct the wording.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u220	Thank you, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Besides Carmazin, who else insists? Please, Yuri Anatolyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u221	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, why did the opposition protest against the postponement of such a meeting right now? Because we couldn't tell you how you are today, including good laws, including those that were initiated by your own representatives of the majority, let's say the People's Deputy Suhim, by shareholders. The Law on Organic Agriculture, which the country today needs, other laws that you have adopted, ignoring the rights of another part, without even allowing it to be expressed. Today, by reference to the Rules, Adam Ivanovich, you have established a limited company today. You're a representative of the President, Chechetov, who gives the team and everything. And you are a closed stockholder society, because you haven't even given a word to anyone to say anything under those laws or to protect those laws. Now, specifically with regard to Bill 7509. And there's also a colossal affair, and more specifically, it's prepared. Because in the form of these changes, where only five sentences are made, with the exception of government bonds in cases provided for by law, the explanatory note states that the NAC 'Naftogaz Ukraine' financial plan provides for an increase of 7.4 billion dollars in the Statute Fund. Next, you write again in this explanatory note. So you can clearly see that the bonds go up, or printed papers go up to the statutory capital. And in fact, there's a bump and a cut in the bracelet, because that's also why it's one of the ways in which we're doing this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u222	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u223	Therefore, this bill should be viewed in an explanatory note and accepted for what purpose. I'm against the show, against what's going on. This needs to be stopped and this needs to be talked about openly and openly at least here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u224	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I think everyone understands that without you, Yuri Anatoliovich, there can't be any stockholders on the Supreme Council, so no one's going to flood you here. Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of the Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations. [[about the release of shares]] [[Registration number 7509]] Please vote. [[13:54:15]] For 244 The bill was adopted in the first reading. Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u225	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, you know, if several ministers had not come to the Cabinet to attend the meeting of the Cabinet, they would have had their chairs covered with a rag, they would have been dismissed immediately from the presidency tomorrow. And in Parliament, you can beat the bullies, you can cover your seats, you can't be here. I've always told you, places can be closed in a blink, conscience can't be closed. Because you're not here, and you're getting paid by the people. But in that sense, democracy. Whoever has a conscience, works with someone who doesn't have a conscience, shuts them up. But I think the people will pick up when the election's over. And I think there's going to be a new Parliament when there's no such thing in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u226	We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Offshore Transactions in External Economic Relations. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] [[Registration number 8715]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:55:46]] For 208 Supported. Reported by Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. From the committee to prepare Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u227	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Taxation Transactions in External Economic Relations. The bill proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers be given the right to enter into the transaction with the donor raw material in external economic relations into separate types of operations, when there is no change in the code under the CTZED, resulting from the technological characteristics of the processing of goods, as well as to introduce certain technical rights to the law in force. The results of the analysis show that there are a number of cases where there is no change in the code according to UCTZED in the deep processing of the donor raw material. A large number of operations are scientific, high-tech, and even unique, such as the emalding of turbine blades with the unique technology of the Patton Institute. By the way, it's also a diamond cap, by the way, it's a reservation to cars. With regard to the introduction of certain technical rights to the law in force, the current Act "On transactions with foreign economic raw materials" is aimed at regulating transactions with donor raw materials in external economic relations between Ukrainian and foreign operators and does not regulate the order in which such transactions are carried out when the customer and processor are residents of Ukraine. With a view to a clear interpretation of the provisions of the law in force, the bill proposes to exclude the term "traffic raw materials operation", referred to in article 1, paragraph 6, of the law, leaving only the term "traffic raw materials operation in external economic relations". The implementation of the law does not require spending from the State budget of Ukraine, but it will also contribute to increasing the number of foreign-economic and non-budgetary transactions from taxation of such activities. It is proposed to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on transaction with donor raw materials in external economic relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u228	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u229	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u230	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, head of the Committee on Economic Policy’s subcommittee, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u231	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 5 July 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on Tax Warfare Operations in External Economic Relations. The purpose of the bill is to improve the procedures for dealing with donor raw materials in external economic activities and to ensure that businesses operate in this area through changes to the law. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The committee supported the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On Transactions in Taxation in External Economic Relations", submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. People's deputies would like to support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u232	Thank you. Shall we vote? Besides Carmazin, no one insists? Please, Yuri Anatolyovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u233	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I'd like to ask you, yesterday you told us, yesterday, at the time of the tax reprisal, you told us how easily we can count on how we can have a reckoning committee to work on a regulatory committee, so I'm now going to the regulatory committee just to make it easier for the deputies, because one in seven already vote a little bit. Do you understand? So, Adam Ivanovich, please count off the closed stockholder association. And that's what I want, and here we have a very respected man who said today that he's covered in pots. On these posters, not on panties, it says, "No, political repressions," depicted portraits of Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka. They went to this Parliament and they were members of this Parliament, they didn't hide the way yours were hiding, they gave you authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u234	Let's talk about donor raw material.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u235	So here I am. No, you don't, you let one of us say no. I'll be able to tell you about the donor raw material. And those who are voting virtually in the hall today are hiding abroad, I'll remind you. So I really don't want to have balloons hanging up again, and this part of the hall right here is hanging portraits from those who are voting virtually today. Now, about the donor raw material of Project 8715, Adam Ivanovich, as you correctly noted. This project is correct, but it has a corrupt component, because the law is wrong about the requirements that apply to these non-relationship operations, and then the government will do it on its "interpersonal." It's wrong, it's totally wrong, because whoever paid, that's why it's going to be. And whoever pays is the uncles, the second-influence MP I've seen twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u236	Thank you. Question completed. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on Transactions in Taxation in External Economic Relations. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] [[Registration number 8715]] Please be supportive. [[2:02:22]] For 240 "For" 240 voted. The Law was adopted in the first reading. 83, 1 abstention. The question is: the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Act "On transaction with donor raw materials". [[on the procedure for drawing up authorised documents]] [[Registration number 8716]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[14:03:10]] For-198 Supported. Reported by Deputy Finance Minister Rybak Sergey Aleksandrovich. Get Bondar ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u237	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! On June 23, 2011, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on transaction of donor raw materials in external economic relations. The bill is in line with the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme "Affordable Society". A competitive economy. Effective authority" is part of the simplification of the procedures for issuing permits. The purpose of this bill is to bring legislation in line with the requirements of the Law on the Free System in the Field of Economic Activities, and this will facilitate the optimization of permit procedures in the area of export outside the customs territory of Ukraine of the donor raw materials of precious metals and precious stones, their waste and junk. According to this bill, the Ministry of Finance agrees to export outside the customs territory of Ukraine. The bill amends the above-mentioned law and, in particular, establishes that it is important, that it is free of charge to issue a permit document. The date of issue, the duration of the document, as well as the complete list of reasons for refusing to issue the document shall be specified and established. The adoption of this bill will ensure that transparent relationships are established by the owners when consent is obtained to export outside the customs territory of Ukraine of the donor raw material. This will also ensure that unwarranted and uncontrolled export of precious metals, precious stones, is avoided. The implementation of this bill, which is also very important, does not require expenditure from the State Budget. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance submits the project to the distinguished people’s deputies and suggests that it be accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u238	Thank you. Associated with the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u239	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 5 July 2011 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 5 of the Act on Transactions in Taxation in External Economic Relations. The purpose of the bill is to bring legislation in line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Free Economic Activities, which will facilitate the optimization of the permit procedure in the area of export outside the customs territory of Ukraine as a source of donated raw materials and precious metals and precious stones, their waste and junk. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The committee supported the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Transactions in Taxation in External Economic Relations, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u240	Thank you. Besides Carmazin, who wants to share in the discussion? Yeah, then sign up. Yes, please, Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, speaking of this bill, we would like to emphasize that this legislative initiative really deserves attention. The bill is certainly right because it will contribute. Indeed, the optimizing of the clearance procedure of the area of export and the main one is the control and calculation of precious metals and stones that cross the customs border of Ukraine. Of course, those novels that are set up here for free in the form of a written document and a limitation of terms, specific terms, which to date, by the way, were lacking by the Ministry of Finance in these envelopes, specific deadlines for the issuance of these permits, as well as periods of action, are certainly a positive fact. Surely a positive fact is that there is a comprehensive list of the conditions under which a citizen or a legal person may be denied such permission. I would like to point out something else: would you please tell us that after the entry into force of the new edition of the Customs Code, the Law on Offshore Transactions in External Economic Relations, which are subject to changes, in particular, and this bill, will be repealed? And how long will this bill live? And the second question is, who will be responsible if the terms set out in this bill, in particular 10 and 60 days, are violated by the Ministry of Finance itself? In general, if we support the adoption of this bill on the basis of the first reading and the second reading, taking into account the comments we have just made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u242	Karmazin Yuri. I don't care. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u243	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! Well, I'm not gonna talk about double standards, I'm just asked by the MP to trade places that Adam Ivanovich said he wasn't interested. Well, nothing, Adam Ivanovich. You can't do that. Then you might be interested to know that when you count the votes, it is now found on top of the nation. By the people, Mr. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u244	Turn off the microphone. Yuri Anatolyovich, I'm warning you, if you don't speak on the subject of the bill, I won't give you the opportunity to speak. The Chief doesn't have the right to count as much as he does in the hall. I'm asking for a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u245	Adam Ivanovich, I remind you that the Constitution has been repealed because of a violation of the voting order. Now there are 75 national deputies in the hall. 75! Who vote 261. Because of this, it was absolutely right now to make a point under the bill on this, 8716, of the People's Deputy Kapleenka. It referred to the fact that this law is passed or, perhaps, a month, or maybe two weeks, or maybe two months. In view of this, we need to go out and think about whether we need him or not. Yes, a similar provision in the Customs Code is needed in the changes we have made to the Customs Code. But we have to see clearly that this is the law of all things for a very short period of time. Because of this, I propose that we accept it, commit a committee of profile to shorten the time for its consideration, because this must already be done, this is not necessary for the economy of the state, not for the government, not for the authority, not for the opposition. And to take that into account in the new edition of the Customs Code that we give. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u246	Thank you. The school of Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u247	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Of course, I would like to point out that this bill is designed to make the hole open right now. Yes, of course, it can later be made of something similar to the law. But I would like to point out that the authorities are now in need of a punching, self-replacing, and every day they're fluttering, revoting, pregnant, sifting and, at the same time, the most popular part of the national MP's party of power is the pianist. Because one pushes 12 buttons, and that's because they're trying to demonstrate that power is stronger than ever. They're here, you know, this authority only knows how to plant and take money out of the budget, and that's all it's ever gonna learn and learn. So, properly, and this bill, this is a brilliant, multifaceted accentuation. So you first learn to be honest with yourself, before society. You bring in those deputies that help you work in the districts or anywhere, or you create any other structure, so that we can look at them once and see what the whole party of power looks like, all of it, 192 bayonets, you know, the faction of the Party of Regions that is here. That's what Karmazin said for 75 of the coalition at all. And there are 38 deputies from the Party of the Regions, and they serve 192 landing sites. These are the talents you need to have in order to serve so much at once for a single approach. And, Adam Ivanovich, please, you don't give a repulsion of opposition, you always give a repulsion of power. Please, at least once every ten days, give a reply, an opportunity to speak in reply to the opposition. I understand that you may disrespect them, not love them, or despise them. Nevertheless, we need to maintain at least some parity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, calm down, the charges are totally groundless, because everyone who has the right to a replica is receiving it. Just wanting to take the floor is not the reason for the repulsion. That's the first one. The other one. Andrew, I recommend you count your heads. "Regions" is much more than your representatives. Question completed. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Off-Balance Transactions in External Economic Relations. [[on the procedure for drawing up authorised documents]] [[Registration number 8716]] Please vote. [[14:14:12]] For 244 Thank you. Decision taken. Although, dear colleagues, let me go to the Cabinet of Ministers with an offer. So we've been looking at two of the same bills to make changes to the same, but different departments and ministries. Perhaps one law would be better -- faster and less paper, and more effective. So please improve corporations among yourselves in order to do so. The question is: The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve legislation in the field of television and radio broadcasting. [[Registration number 8298]] Offers have been made for a reduced procedure, to consider. Please vote. [[14:15:09]] For 204 Supported. Please, Head of the State Television and Radio Committee, Kurdinovich Alexander Viacheslavovich, from the Committee, Helen Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u249	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, you are invited to consider a draft of the Ukrainian Act to amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding the improvement of legislation in the field of television and radio broadcasting. Today, there has been a situation where Ukrainian television and radio broadcasting laws, the radio frequency of Ukraine, the National Television and Radio Council have different interpretations of the names of conclusions that are the basis for the announcement by the National Council of Ukraine of television and radio competitions for receiving broadcasting licences. The result of these differences is the non-implementation of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and the broadcasting of the budget program. To draw conclusions on the electromagnetic compatibility of the electronic means of speech needed to create and develop channels of speech, speech networks, and television networks. The bill proposes to harmonize the terminology of Ukraine's television and radio bill, radio and the National Television and Radio Council with the definition of the title of the conclusion. That is, the conclusion of the possibilities and conditions for the use of radio frequency for radio broadcasting. In order for the title of this conclusion to sound the same in all three valid laws. The implementation of this law will help to improve the legislative regulation of the issue of the treatment of names, conclusions that are the basis for the announcement of competitions for obtaining language licenses by broadcasters. Well, according to the effective implementation of the budget programme, the development of conclusions on electromagnetic compatibility of the radio-electronic means of speech needed to create and develop channels of speech, networks of speech for television networks. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u250	Thank you. The committee's rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna. Personally, except for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u251	Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues, the committee at the meeting discussed a draft Ukrainian Law amending some of Ukraine’s laws to improve legislation in the field of television and radio talk. The purpose of the bill is to technically improve the legislative regulation of the issue of the treatment of names, the conclusions of the Television and Broadcasting Act, the radio spectrum of Ukraine, the National Council and so forth. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill can be based on a basis. The committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law, so please support and thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u252	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Sign up. Please, Wooden. Taran? Please. Grivkowski, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u253	Thank you. Thank you, thank you all. I take this opportunity and, Alexander Viacheslavovich, first question to you. So there's this Ukrainian edition of Wesselka, you know, it's a national publication, the only one not yet stolen like the others in Ukraine. They found the tenant, otherwise they'll just die physically, they won't be able to exist anymore. But the lease must be from you, Alexander Viacheslavovich. They have spoken to you several times. Visa and now there. I ask you very much both on behalf of the writers and on behalf of the deputies and on behalf of those children, finally, let me rent this. It's the only way they can stand it. I don't know what else I need from them. They've written all the documents, they've drawn up everything, and they're not allowed to rent the same room. Please resolve this question if you have an expensive Ukrainian book. That's the first one. And the second. Here is a well-deserved conductor of Parliament who said about posters with portraits of Timoshenko and Lucenka, which are being murdered by the authorities today. So I'd, you know, I'd like to remind you of the balloons that used to wear "Regions" here. And you know who wore them, these scarves and schwanders, will never behave as bravely as they are in the court of Timoshenko and Lucenko. They're going to give up the way it was. And the last phrase is that these are all of Yanukovich's promises about a better life, and they also hit like these balloons and roller skates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u254	Grivkowski, People's Party. Yeah, right. Karmazin Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u255	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Lord, the presiding, revered Ukrainian people! There are now 89 people in the hall along with the opposition. I suggest you compare the figures: 450 is the constitutional composition of Parliament, 89 are the decision-makers, and we see 244 on the board. And the closed stock company and its leader, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, now convinces me not to believe my eyes. But I'm being called by voters, unlike you, who say we're ashamed of what's going on. I just got off the phone with the Blacks. I'm ashamed, too, but unfortunately, yes, even the great faction of Lithuania and not in its entirety, although the leader of the faction is on the spot, although the leader is on the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u256	Yours is only two.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u257	And the factions of leadership are out of place. So there's a big difference. I don't see the leadership of the faction communists, Adam Ivanovich, so maybe that's why you're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u258	By law, by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u259	So it's legal. Dear friends, should we adopt this law or should we not? You can take it, you can't take it. Why? For still the authors of the laws of all the law have not fulfilled the purpose they have set. They have differences between the Television and Radio Broadcasting Act, the radio frequency resource, and the Nacradu. And scientific expertise has clearly shown that this is written both in article 50 and in articles 25 and 15 of the National Council Act, which, by the way, does terrible things. Now they want to do, turn off the "Melody" radio, everyone's favorite. Despite the fact that there is a decision by the Supreme Economic Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, that the Nacrad unlawfully disqualified them. And no matter what, that's how you want to rule it out, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u260	Please, Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u261	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Parliamentary Group Reforms for the Future, People's Authority. I understand, and our parliamentary group understands that this bill removes the contradictions and contradictions that exist in existing legislation. But to be honest, I'd like to say a little bit about something else. We all know that in August there was a competition at the National Council on Television and Broadcasting about digital broadcasting. And I want to say that I'm actually very ashamed that I was one of those national MPs who, including, voted for this composition of the National Council. Why? Because sixty-eight regional television companies have not been licensed for digital language. And I want to say that in fact 68 television companies are life, professional life, these are the people who worked in this area. I want to say that no Lviv television company has been licensed for digital language. So actually, there's a clearing of the information space by power, and that's a very shameful fact. What I'm saying is that I didn't get a license from a national TV speaker, a television company called NIS-TV, who always had the highest rating in Santa. [[City of Mikolai]] What I'm saying is that the only children's channel is the Ukrainian-speaking "Little" never got a license either. Although I'm saying we don't have hockey, we don't have hockey, but we're going to have a hockey channel, and it's going to be very, very sad. I'm talking about decisions that the National Television and Radio Council doesn't make about Melody Radio is actually a raid that's been going on for years. And in fact, today we realize that the National Council on Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u262	It's not about the National Council, it's about something else. Please, Dry, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u263	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to expect, I've taken one minute, I'll use it to give us the opportunity to adjust the work of the National Council. I want to support my colleague, Bully. This is what happened when you were denied broadcasting licenses in a national digital multiplex mass of regional television companies, including the "Alex" radio company in Zaporozhye. This, indeed, was a national radio company, created by the people, gradually. So today, I am simply openly and openly stating that if the National Council, a state authority that behaves so unpunishedly and does not remember, it will all retire in its entirety. And I think we're going to be supported here by opposition and all of the country's overlords. What's going on right now is called the sink, and that's what we need to end. These contests should be transparent, honest, and fair. If this bill helps fix Nakradya's work, I'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u264	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve legislation in the field of television and radio broadcasting. [[Registration number 8298]] Please vote. The faction has already come forward, please vote. [[14:26:30.]] For 230 The Law was adopted in the first reading. We are considering: a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the involvement of housing-building cooperatives in mass housing]] [[Registration number 3545]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[14:27:06]] For-195 Offer supported. Please, the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u265	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Bill introduced by the Ukrainian National MP Feldman on December 24, 2008, No. 3545. The purpose of the bill is to include housing and building cooperatives in the housing investment mechanism, to improve the regulation of property rights and the order of liquidation of cooperatives. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill should be returned to work. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports a bill that takes into account the comments made. The Committee on Economic Policy, at its meeting on 31 December 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, introduced by the National MP Feldman, and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a first reading basis. [[on the involvement of housing-building cooperatives in mass housing]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u266	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Besides Carmazin, who else insists? Then, please, Karmaza's word. But only according to the bill, Yuri Anatolyovich. You won't have any other options.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u267	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I am only in law and solely on the basis of the Constitution. It says here that the constitutional composition is our 450 deputies. Part of it is now in court, because it stands for democracy, stands for the leader of the opposition, Timoshenko. Part stands for Yuri Lucenka. Where are the others, Adam Ivanovich? As Head of Parliament, please inform us where the others are. You were obliged to do so before each meeting under the Rules, Adam Ivanovich. You have to explain how many in the ship, how many in the hospital, how long they're alive, how far we don't even know where. By the way, according to the Rules, Adam Ivanovich, what were you to do? [[Article 120]] We have two registrations: written and spoken. And you have to inform the deputies what the difference is between writing and oral. And you don't, Adam Ivanovich. Because of this, please. I'm announcing you as Ukraine's national deputy. Write it down, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u268	Thank you. Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u269	Now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u270	Turn off the microphone. Yuri Anatolyevich, here's the thing. Well, let's have a measure. Discuss what is involved. Don't hit the water in the foot. Nothing will change from that, and the protection of the Fatherland will. You have half a minute to argue on the bill and only on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u271	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, you are very, very, very generous. You are the most generous, perhaps. So, Adam Ivanovich, I was speaking only in fact, essentially a violation by the chairman of our constitutional right -- once, and the Rules -- two. Now with regard to change, there's a positive, among other things, the positive is in making changes to article 384 of the Civil Code, where it's proposed in a new part to establish that a member of the housing-building cooperative, who fully contributed his rations for the apartment, becomes the owner of the apartment, that's a positive. There are, of course, some positive developments in the changes to the Investment Act. But there's a negative in the Cooperation Act where, in fact, it's proposed to take property away from another cooperative, or from a state, it's a constitutional right to property. Because of this law, in principle, in the first reading, as changes to the two laws that I spoke about could be adopted before.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u272	Question completed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the involvement of housing-building cooperatives in mass housing]] Registration number 3545. Please vote. [[14:32:00]] For 239. Copy that. We should now consider the draft Act amending certain legislation in Ukraine. [[on the improvement of certain provisions of administrative jurisdiction]] Registration number 8736. However, the author of the Kiwalov bill "in connection with my official mission to participate in the Parliamentary Assembly Committee of the Council of Europe" asks for a transfer to the following week. Supported. Yes, we are considering the draft Law on Employers’ Organizations, Their Unity, Their Rights and Guarantees, Registration No. 8186. There is also an offer to move his consideration to reconcile positions with the Cabinet of Ministers. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's very simple. Is there no objection? There's a denial. Who, in order to postpone the consideration of Bill 8186, the draft Law on the Organization of Employers, Their Uniting, Their Rights and Their Guarantees, please vote. Please vote. [[14:33:35]] For 246 The will of the Supreme Council is higher than your wish, Yuri Anatolyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] In the session room. We should consider Bill 8484 – amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the organization of State oversight and monitoring of labour law enforcement and labour protection, which is a letter from the national deputies Harry and Yegorenko on the transposition of the bill. Please support this proposal. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[14:34:20]] For 244 Although I point out to the authors that literally a few days ago, these authors tearfully asked the Conciliation Council and the Supreme Council to consider these bills. So please take our work more seriously. And the question is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for work protection measures), registration number 8485. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take it off the table? There is a proposal by the author of the bill to withdraw the project from consideration. Who's in charge, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u273	Adam Ivanovich! Adam Ivanovich! [[14:35:20]] For 245
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u274	The bill has been revoked, removed. So, dear fellows, you and I have completely exhausted the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u275	There is a point by way of conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-08-m0.u276	There's a reference to two factions that are mass non-participation in the work of the Supreme Council, and this applies to both our Ukraine and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I'm paying attention to this fact. At this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council I declare closed, not all of them, yes. I declare closed in connection with our decision to work on all matters of the day, we have exhausted them, so we will not hold an evening session today. There is a request to work on the committees of profile, factions for drafting drafts, especially for the second reading. Next meeting tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. Good luck.
