ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:49]] They registered with 388 national deputies. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the National Deputies of Vetwicki Dmitr and Corporal Vladimir. Please welcome our colleagues, wish them success in good health. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on 5 April 2011. Forty-six issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, four laws and nine regulations were passed, six bills were adopted on a basis, and one draft decree was sent to the Committee for Re-reading, 3 bills have been converted to the drafting of the subject of the legislative initiative, 10 bills and 2 draft regulations have been rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law was adopted in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. One bill is aimed at furthering the committee. Honorable national deputies, according to information provided by the secretariat of the four national deputies, are in hospital, hospitalized. So I'd like to ask that their cards don't work. This is Alexander Tkachenko, Alexander Chernomorov, Viktor Pavlenko, and Mikola Lisin. Honorable national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are assigned on Wednesday 30 minutes to the national deputies of Ukraine. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Names of the national MPs, please. People's deputy Glazunov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Andrew Pavlovsky will be next. Leonid Kojara, a faction of the Party of the Regions, will be followed by Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u2	Good morning, distinguished Ukrainian national deputies! On March 25-31 this year, President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine made a successful tour to the countries of South East Asia, the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, the Republic of Singapore and Brunei Darussalam. This tour of one of the most dynamic socio-economic developments in the world has demonstrated Ukraine's willingness to develop a new approach to large-scale cooperation with key partners in South-East Asia and has contributed to strengthening Ukraine's political and economic positions in the Asia-Pacific region as a whole. A major summary of the visits was the signing of a series of intergovernmental and interministerial documents. Important arrangements have been reached to activate trade and investment cooperation, implement a range of forward-looking and large-scale projects. In particular, in Vietnam, arrangements have been made to increase cooperation in areas such as banking and investment, engineering, shipbuilding, aviation, metallurgy, transportation, energy, medicine, and pharmaceuticals, agriculture, and many other areas. Among the specific results of the visit are the establishment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the State Investment Agency of Ukraine and the Vietnamese company Viettel. In particular, about $600 million is projected to be invested in the development of Ukraine’s telecommunications sector. With regard to Vietnam, I would like to stress separately that the visit of the President of Ukraine to this promising country took place only after a 15-year break. During a state visit by the President of Ukraine to Singapore, by the way, the first in the history of our bilateral relationship, was highlighted by the considerable potential and development of cooperation in the commercial and economic and investment spheres, the increased interaction between the two countries' business circles. An agreement was reached on the creation of a joint Ukrainian-Singapore Inter-Governmental Commission and on the promotion of the establishment of the Ukrainian-Singapore Business Council. The President of Ukraine held a separate meeting with the leaders of the leading Singapore investment companies, which discussed the prospects for a series of concrete large-scale projects. The South East Asian President's tour ended with a national visit to Brunei Darussalam, called for a full dialogue, as well as an incentive for the business circle of Ukraine and Brunei to deepen trade and investment co-operation. An important and practical result of this visit was the signing of the Intergovernmental Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation in Defence and the Intergovernmental Agreement on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u3	Andrew Pavlovsky is passing on the right to speak to Mikol Tomenko, please. The next one will be the Scrooge.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, today on the day of opposition and the day before the cosmonauts, I want to say on behalf of the opposition that we are ready to extend our hand to the President and to the authorities who have said that we are ready to free the city of Kiev from thieves, hoodlums and bribes. It is sad for us, of course, that the kindness of the Chinese and the mercy of President Yushchenk and Janukovich has led us today to have a place from the Ukrainian capital where there is no respect for the citizen, no respect for the territorial community, no respect for Ukrainian culture or small and medium-sized business. But the last session of the Kyivrada demonstrated that the representative of the President and the head of the KMDA, Alexander Popov, had sounded these and the experiences we had talked about three years ago. The fact that in Kiev, according to expert estimates, more than 70 billion dollars has been stolen, we think it's a liberal estimate of the theft of the capital over the last period. Well, you can tell me where the world could sell the stadium, right, without the football players, the Star Stadium for 10 million dollars where one of the world's most outstanding Dynamo matches and representatives of Fascist Germany took place? [[Kiev]] The stadium's been sold. No one on behalf of the Public Prosecutor’s Office or of the law enforcement agencies at all paid attention to this. When we're talking about robbing the city of Kiev today, we're not just talking about the activities of the young team of Chernevski. In this robbery, the officials of the prosecutor’s office, the police, the BSS, who then joined the Kiev team in robbing the city of Kiev. So this is our next position. After the President’s position, Alexander Popov’s position, in a mild sense, was not supported, and we believe that this is a slap on the President, that after that the representatives of the Czernovetsk Block placed the President’s legitimate representative in Kiev. And by trying to agree and share property by creating a constructive majority in Kiev, we consider China a contempt. That is why we have registered with the Supreme Council a decree designed to give the full right to order in the city of Kiev to the Chinese. In Kiev, there is a need to hold an early election not only of the Kiev City Head, who has long been out of office, but also of Kyivrada, who is directly involved in the theft of the Ukrainian capital. Only the Chinese have the full right to determine who will rule in the Ukrainian capital. As an opposition, once again, we are ready to help bring the order in Kiev and the day before cosmonauts, cosmonauts to the right place, I mean prisons, and let the Chinese rule the Ukrainian capital.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u5	National deputy of Szerbán, faction of the Party of Regions, please. Is he giving up the word? Then, instead of Soloshenko, Irina Gorin, a faction of the Party of the Regions, takes the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Three conditions must always be met when contentious, conflict-related situations occur. The first is the ability to engage in dialogue and negotiate. The second is the ability to hear and listen to each other. And the third is the ability to trust. A joint working group has been working for more than two months between the Cabinet of Ministers and entrepreneurs to supplement the Tax Code in the simplified taxation section. A great deal of work has been done. Previous periods were also raised, taking into account the first quarter of this year. Serious compromises and agreements have been reached. Business individuals have started to grow in three directions per year. These are simplifications with annual turnover of 150,000 bracelets and who are not entitled to hire workers. They are simplifications that have a turnover of 600,000 bracelets and 10 employees. They are simplifications that have a million bracelets and 10 employees. Legal persons remained to work on a simplified system. There has been a grading of activities called domestic services. Reporting is indeed greatly simplified. The article, which had caused many complaints, could only be taken to the income, but only profit could be derived from activities with entrepreneurs. But there's a compromise, there's a dialogue. But there's a crisis of trust. I would like to refer to entrepreneurs and say, do not look for intermediaries among the adventurous opposition who are a gap between business and you in order to engage in dialogue. Organize standing round tables on the ground with local authorities, control and resolve your issues. We need to learn to trust each other. The authorities have made their move. We are prepared to bear the cost of replenishing the budget. But we hope business will come out of the shadows. Let's win here together, let's learn to trust together, and only together will we get the results we need that we deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u7	Lilia Grigorovich, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Tishchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u8	Lilia Grigorovich, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, students! Dear Ukrainian community! A national-scale tragedy called "sabotage by the Minister of Education" continues. If the first action of this farce was to be carried out on the street by Ukrainian students, because the payment of services, the parental committees, because they took beautiful good schools, the Ukrainian teachers, because they didn't pay the money, then the second part of this tragedy is even more ominous: the saboteur, Tobacco, intervened on the actions of President Janukovic of Ukraine. It's about Euro-integration, about social stability, and Tobacco is against it. The passions around the National University of Food Technology, which is in Kiev, were fueled today. On July 2, 90 percent of the votes were chosen by the Ukrainian Rector, Anatoly Ivanovich. But a few days later, these elections were ignored, because they said someone didn't take part in the election, and then the Prime Minister was told that the Rector couldn't do it, and he's doing it. The university went from 30 to 9th. During the seven years of the Rector’s activities, new fields and new specialties have been opened, 17,000 students are studying, and 12 colleges are being held, and 45 apartments are being obtained by university staff. Therefore, there was no reason for the release of the Ukrainian man Anatoly Ivanovich. Unless, perhaps, his name is Ukrainian. But the reason was. It turns out there was a requirement to land in Concha-Zasp, where the sports complex of this school called Burevaznik. The rector disagreed. Then the stagnation went out. Appointed to perform the duties of the National Aviation University, we have airmen today in honor of being the deputy of the Professional Committee, our fellow MP from there. Dear friends, this ministerial break-up has had a very sinister effect because the court found the President's election to be legitimate on July 2. Dear friends! If you don't hear Ukrainian education, teachers, the Kiev community, students, hear the court. In view of this, please consider my request to Prime Minister Azarov to stop the ministerial break-up, to reinstate the court's ruling that the only legitimate Rector of the University of Food Technology is the Ukrainian Anatoly Ivanovich. Get your hands off Ukrainian education! Sabotage Smoker, no!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u9	The National MP Tischenko is transferring the right to speak to Koshin College. Please. Next is Michael Schershung.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u10	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Today, from this rostrum, I would like to speak on behalf of the deputy faction of "BUT – "Fatherhood" to the Attorney-General, to Prime Minister Azarov, Vice-Prime Minister of Social Policy Tihypka, on the immediate correction of the situation that has taken place today with the feeding of children in areas affected by the Chernobyl disaster, the Plains and Volin regions. Since April 1, this year, more than 70,000 children have stopped eating. And the reason is, on February 17th of this year, the Ministry of Social Affairs had a tender for the purchase of food services from the Food Organization, which won the company Avika from Dnipropetrovska. [[Larina’s commercial director]] By the way, the results of this tender were reported only on March 26-27. On the question of why it was so late, it was reported that the mail was to blame. It's not clear how the winner of the Avika Society could have come out when the organizations that participated in the tender, which is basically the enterprises of the paradise plant that had been feeding for 15 to 18 years before that, offered better price propositions. For example, Sarnin Paradise offered almost a million dollars less than the winner. And that's the situation with other areas. And where it was no longer possible to falsify these trades and in the district and the city of Kuznetsovsk, there were no trades at all. How can this winner be fed if he does not have representation in the area or in the areas? There is no equipment, as they say, without a spoon or a spoon. And now the representatives of this company are driving, and they're offering to cooperate with the directors of the companies that have fed before, namely, a number of contracts with chefs for renting equipment and inventory. So it turns out that Avika gave false information about the chefs in the state of society about the availability of equipment and inventory. The businesses that ate before are 90 percent of all equipment, furniture, and containers. If we allow it to be leased today, there will be no more spending on food. If on average today the government allocates about 10 or 12 dollars per student, which is not more than 8 dollars left to eat. How can children be fed for this amount when the increase in food is rapidly increasing? About 10 years ago, we were going through this when we were coming in in in the form and eating. The locals were fed, and the funds were paid. There are many questions in this situation. Who's lobbying the interests of this company, Avika? Who's behind it? Why are the tender contracts signed "Avika" only until November of the month? How can this media firm, known for its questionable food authority, in the district of Žitomir, in the city of Dnipropetrovsk, feed children in the Ukrainian Armed Forces? So I think it's the work of law enforcement. This is before the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy. It's all very dissatisfaction with the government's work in this direction. Today, rallies are being held in all parts of the world in a disgraceful manner. You have to cancel the results immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u12	to the responsibility of the guilty. It will allow food - management organizations to continue to conduct it until the end of the school year. I understand. We understand there's a redistribution of business. But what's with the kids? Fear God, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u13	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Kiriczk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u14	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! We hear quite often about the unfair results of tenders and trades, and it's no wonder that every competitive selection leaves a part of the participants dissatisfied, and they have gone to look for different excuses for their failure. And I'm going to talk again about what my predecessor said. And what I'm saying is, when it comes to feeding children in educational institutions, you have to take great responsibility for any result of the trade. Sadly, the situation has already been said in five parts of the Plains region: Breznivsky, Volodymyrecki, Dubrovicki, Sarnen and Rokitnowski and Kashersky region in Volin. On April 1, this year, children with the status of victims of the Chernobyl disaster were left without food. The point is that even in February, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine recognized the Dnipropetrov Society "Avika" as the winner of the tender for feeding children in schools. This choice has become incomprehensible not only for other bidders but also for parents and children, since schoolchildren have not yet begun feeding. Avika's representatives showed up in the Plains region, and because they were the winner of the trades, they began to demand equipment and assistance from local companies in the food organization. And so it became known that this company does not own a material technology base or transport to provide food for children, and their tender offers were almost 1.5 million more than Dubrovic's or the Burresian Combined Public. Public food. The last two companies are completely capable of replacing Avika, restoring child feeding. After all, the Dubrovic Association has been feeding local students for 40 years, and the Beresov Combined 18 years. Accordingly, they have a beautiful material and technical base and transportation. But the most important thing is that businesses have highly skilled workers who know their business well. But perhaps the main thing is not the result of the tender, but the fact that children in six areas do not get proper nutrition. Instead of eating hot foods, they are forced to eat dried sandwiches from their home, since eating them for a healthy generation is not enough to talk about. So today, from the Supreme Council rostrum, I would like to go to the Ministry of Social Policy with a formal request: to review the results of the child nutrition tender for the Plains and Volin areas. There is no reason not to be a winner of the terms of the tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u15	The national deputy Kirichuk is transferring the right to speak to Alexander Stoyan, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Odarchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen, you certainly know that at the beginning of this month the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in carrying out the President of Ukraine's Social and Economic Development Programme, has raised all social standards. In particular, this month’s minimum pension is 760 dollars. This is increased by two times compared to 2009 with the same moon. By the end of this year, the minimum pension will be 800 dollars. For example, in 2008, 2009 under the Orange Authority, the minimum pension was frozen and amounted to 498 dollars. Second, the minimum wage has been increased and today it's 960 dollars. For the first time, the minimum wage corresponds to the minimum wage per working person. By the end of the year, the minimum wage will be over a thousand dollars. The next moment is very important. Since the beginning of April, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has increased the wager of the first tariff level in the budget area. Of course, since the first and sixth levels are lagging behind, the Cabinet of Ministers has decided to pay these categories of workers, the education staff, up to 960 dollars, to the minimum wage. A very important decision of the Cabinet of Ministers that, starting in September 2011, there will be an increase in salaries, an increase of 20 percent. This applies to all categories of education workers. I mean, do our political power fully satisfy the transformations that are being made? No, of course not, given the increase in tariffs and growth. Prices. So our political power, the Party of Regions, has primarily supported the proposal made in the general agreement between trade and government to review a consumer basket that hasn't been reviewed since 2000. This is the first time. Secondly, we approve of the initiative of the President of Ukraine, who has made a proposal to eliminate the disgraceful phenomenon of providing a minimum of living. This level of security was used by the orange authorities when, let's say, it was defined as a minimum of living, and they decided on how much to give to this offer. Next. We have approached pension reform in principle. And what I'm saying is that two days ago, a meeting took place with the participation of Ephraim, Chechtov, Pecklesenka, Harry, Dryho, where we basically expressed our position on pension reform. After examining all sides, we came to the conclusion that this pension reform should be further developed. Thus, step by step, our political power is doing everything to get the country out of the pit that the orange has led to gradually raising social standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u17	The People's Deputy of Podgorny gives the word to colleague Odarchenk, the faction "BUT" – "Fatherhood" – the next will be by Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Mikola Volodymyrovich mentioned today the situation in Kiev with the form of authority that exists. Dear colleagues! I want us to think a little bit and look at the example of Kiev, what kind of authority is the authority of Yanukovic today? Today, there is no legal authority that has created a completely strange scheme, with which there is no executive authority. The established district administrations without district councils, that is, the authorities that perform executive functions exist, there are no controls. This scheme, fellow dignitaries, it resembles a little bit of a scheme when colonizers wanted to colonize certain countries. People might ask themselves, maybe this scheme is nice, maybe it's working, maybe it's in the interest of throwing? But today we can clearly demonstrate that this scheme is not working today, and today people in Kiev are in the worst condition. Because, dear colleagues, I have here a report by the head of the Kyiv State Administration, which clearly states that today the salary increase in Kiev is lagging behind inflation, the growth is the lowest in Ukraine. This indicates that the proposed system of government does not work. Dear colleagues! In addition, eight billion dollars have been removed from the budget and are not subsidized to teachers and educators. This is the first time in the history of the capital that this is happening. What is it, that revenge on Yanukovich's Chinese for not voting for him, is that revenge for the orange revolution? With special cynicism, you might consider the effort to develop the Chernewsky at the sessions of the Kyiv Council. The first question in the report, the head of the administration of Popov develops, calls for accountability, because of 20 questions, he puts in order the day-to-day issue of transferring the property of the Kyivenergo city to the Kyivenergo concession to the sponsors of the Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider the cynicalness of these actions. Kievenergo for the Chinese, if you want, is a gas road for Ukraine, it's like the Crimean Peninsula for Ukraine. And today the demonstration sells this decision to Kyivrada, it reveals the true intentions of power. Dear colleagues! The Parents' Party today in Kiev will hold an initiative group meeting and gather a referendum in which citizens will say clearly whether they want to hand Kiyivenergo over to the sponsors of the Party of Regions or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u20	Whether they want to leave this profitable business, an enterprise that is still a sign of citizens' security in the property of the Kiev territorial community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u21	Thank you. Igor Alexeyev, the Communist faction and the last speech we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! With the beginning of 2011, there have been many problems in Ukraine that require a rapid response from the Supreme Council and the government, especially in view of the start of work on the budget resolution for the following year. In the preparation of the 2012 budget resolution, it is necessary to take into account the critical health situation, the freezing of wages in this area, the catastrophic lack of funds for the purchase of medicines and vaccines that make it difficult for the population to provide the necessary medical services. It is no secret that in most regions of Ukraine today the need for vaccines is met by only 40 percent. As a result, tomorrow we may face a sharp rise in disease levels and even the threat of epidemics of dangerous diseases. At the same time, the problem is compounded by the lack of qualified medical personnel. Because of the meager wages, health - care professionals are freed from state medical facilities. As a result, the availability and quality of medical services continue to decline. The Communist faction also requires an immediate review of the state’s policies in the area of municipal agriculture. The completion of the heating season is accompanied by an increase in tariffs and debts for utilities to energy and gas supply companies. In individual regions, this has already led to the premature completion of the heat supply to the population. Therefore, we feel that we need to find out the reasons for this situation without delay. First of all, they're not paying the population. Community tariffs are growing faster than the income of the population. The government is talking about increasing housing subsidies, but it's not making the situation any better. There may also be other root problems: the weak financial discipline of utilities themselves. Regrettably, the practice has become common when shaded utility equipment is hidden behind the population’s claim. We demand that the government conduct a thorough audit of each such case. If it turns out that the problems are caused by the fraud of a financial enterprise, the State must initiate a procedure for their compulsory recovery. Another issue we need to consider is the government's draft pension reform. On this point, I would like to emphasize once again. The position of the Communist Party has not changed. We will never support a decision that could cause a deterioration in the social security of Ukrainian citizens. We believe that reforms should take place in the interests of the Ukrainian people, not in the hands of international financial institutions. Enough "look into the hands" of the IMF. Cooperation with this global fund, apart from the risks, has nothing to offer. Exchange credits only increase debt burdens on the State budget, and IMF-imposed form receptors do not work. Just look at the developments in Greece, other countries of the world that have become recipients of the fund, and it will be clear that so - called anti - crisis policies are only deepening crises.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u23	Yes, Your Honor, the speech is over. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate letters of address and commission on the proposals that have been made in the course of the speeches of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to Wednesday's April 6th issues. We have two draft laws on the ratification of the respective agreements. Dear colleagues, I announce for consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on mutual protection of classified information. If there's no objection, there's all the documents processed, let's look at it in a simplified procedure, it's clear. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u24	I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:36:03]] For 199 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine Rodovko Volodymir Mihajlovich. And the co-reporter is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u25	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On June 30, 2010, an agreement was signed in Kiev between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on mutual protection of classified information. In accordance with articles 2 and 32 of the Ukrainian State Secret Act and article 9 of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, the agreement to enter into force is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Security Service, as a specially authorized state authority in the field of State Security, has prepared a draft Ukrainian Law on the ratification of the treaty. The bill is in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. And according to the Ministry of Justice, he is responsible for the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine. By order of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, an international treaty was signed on February 16, this year, for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ratification of the agreement is Ukraine’s implementation of the internal procedures necessary for its acquisition, an international treaty, and its validity. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u26	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus is head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u27	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting, has carefully studied and discussed the draft bill, as well as all the documents relating to this agreement, this international agreement, and unanimously approved its adoption by the Supreme Council as one that continues to form an international legal basis for Ukraine's cooperation with other States. The signing and ratification of this international treaty is based on the need to create sufficient legal principles for the protection of classified information, which, if necessary, will be exchanged between the parties in the course of cooperation in the economic, scientific and technical, military and law enforcement spheres. The draft agreement is designed to ensure that Ukraine implements all the internal procedures necessary for the acquisition of the treaty in question, as provided for in article 12 of the Agreement. In accordance with the Explanatory Note of the SAA Service, the adoption of this law and the implementation of this international treaty do not provide for additional funding from the State Budget of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council has no objection to the ratification of the agreement of the Supreme Council. The National Security and Defence Committee also considers it appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council the ratification of this agreement. The Rules Committee concluded that there were accompanying ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u28	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u29	Relevant ministries and information on the granting to Kabmin of appropriate powers to sign a treaty to a certain person. In spite of this, we are proposing a positive decision on the ratification of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss this? Please sign in. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Ivan Stojko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u31	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues! The ratification issue for our nation is indeed very important. And I would like to stress that our committee has considered and supported this issue. What's going on here? This is primarily about cooperation in military, economic, and other fields. The most important thing is that we cooperate not only with the European Union, but also with those countries that are located and, let's say, far away from our borders. And it's cooperation here, I think, that will help us save the face of our nation. And make sure that the military sphere as well as others are properly considered. The question here is the griffins of secrecy as well as the special terms. And I don't think there's going to be any problem with this ratification. So please don't let the question get too long. And it's been almost a year since the deal was signed. Now is the time to accept this ratification by our Parliament. Our faction will support, and we ask the entire room to support this ratification agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u32	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u33	Please give the word of Popescu to Ivan Vasilovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u34	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u35	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The honourable colleagues proposed for ratification of the agreement shall establish the equivalent and the charter of secrecy used by the parties to the agreement, their order of modification or cancellation, their mutual exchange and important secret information, the resolution of issues and the identification of the competent authorities of the parties responsible for the implementation of the provisions of the agreement. The need for ratification of this agreement stems from the requirements of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts of Ukraine and article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Mystery. In view of the established practice of ratifying such agreements with 43 countries with which Ukraine already has such agreements, and with the European Union, the Party of Regions is in favour of ratifying the treaty of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I will vote in favour, and I call on all my colleagues to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u36	And Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u37	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! With regard to the content of this covenant, no one seems to have any questions about who read it. It's a perfect framework. And it was correct for the previous speaker to say that Ukraine and dozens of countries had signed similar agreements. In principle, this is the continuation of such bilateral interactions in cooperation with the protection of classified information. I'd also like to emphasize. And here we have to, I think, take into account the point that this is about protecting classified information that will be transmitted or created in the course of cooperation between these two countries alone. So this is not supposed to extend to other spheres of international interaction. And I took the floor to say that, you know, when it comes to protecting classified information in some agreements or bills, I don't think that's relevant anymore. Dear colleagues, after our adoption of the Public Information Act, it seems to me that many countries can actually resect their budgets for exploration activities, including in Ukraine. Because there are no secrets anymore, because anyone can ask for any information, if it's not given, even if it's confidential, and it's not stipulated in the law that there's a secret information that's official and so on, then the official will be forced to give that information, otherwise it will be brought to trial. There is even such, apparently, that we did not notice or wanted to notice that the official has a complete answer even by telephone. And if the person who made the call is not satisfied with the complete information, he will be brought to justice. So I think that when the Public Information Act was passed, we did everything we could to make sure that there wasn't any classified information. And again, I think that the intelligence of many countries has saved a lot of money for working in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. No one insists on the faction? Then, honourable colleagues, I put to the vote a motion for approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on Mutual Protection of Secret Information. [[Registration number 0202]] Please vote. [[10:46:23]] For 297 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on mutual assistance and cooperation in the area of civil protection. [[Registration number 0204]] There's a short cut. I'm voting on this proposal to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:47:06]] For 207 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Emergency Situations of the Bogotás Mikhailo Vasilovich. And the co-reporter is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law provides for the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on Mutual Assistance and Cooperation in the Field of Civil Protection, signed on 7 October 2010 during the official visit of President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovič to the French Republic. The bill was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 9 of the Law on International Contracts in the order of the legislative initiative. The ratification of the said Agreement will allow prompt and timely mutual assistance, exchange information with a view to preventing emergencies, and in the event of emergency situations, it is organized and effective to deal with the elimination of their consequences. The agreement will provide a legal basis for cooperation between the Government of Ukraine and the French Republic in the areas of warning and eliminating emergency situations. Ukraine's draft law received a positive conclusion from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please support the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u40	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting discussed the bill and unanimously approved the decision to support its adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ratification by the Supreme Council of this Agreement on Mutual Assistance and Cooperation in the Field of Civil Protection will allow prompt, timely and legal assistance. And today, in the world, such cooperation has become an important global imperative. According to the Explanatory Note by the Ministry of Emergency Situations, Ukraine will be able to finance all the work under this agreement at the expense of the Ministry, with possible assistance from the Government of Ukraine, the State Budget Reserve, or other sources. And expenses will be regulated by individual decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers. The main scientific and expert office supports the ratification of this agreement, and the regulatory committee has no comments. Taking advantage of this possibility, I recommend supporting the committee's decision and ratifying the agreement. At the same time, I'm calling on the Cabinet of Ministers again to raise awareness of all unratified contracts. The Ambassador of Romania came to see me and said that until now there was no ratified investment protection agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u42	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u43	This does not honor either the Cabinet of Ministers or the relevant central authorities of the executive branch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to share in this discussion, please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u45	Please give the word of Popescu to Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u46	Ivan Popescu, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u47	Thank you. Sand faction of the Party of the Regions. High-level colleagues, the agreement provides for mutual assistance and cooperation in the area of civil protection between the Ukrainian government and the French Republic. The agreement sets out the conditions for implementation and cooperation in the field of prevention and forecasting of major natural and technological risks, the preparation of civil protection participants, and the provision of voluntary mutual assistance in cases of natural or major disasters. In view of the natural disasters we have seen recently, similar agreements have become particularly relevant, and we can observe this with what happened in Japan in its own time. God forbid this should happen elsewhere, but such agreements must be ratified. In view of this, the Party of Regions will vote in favour and urge our colleagues to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u48	Vladimir Yavorowski, “BUT” faction, “Fathership”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u49	Good morning, Ukraine! Dear colleagues, our constituents! This is indeed a very important document that must be ratified, since it deals with disaster relief, natural disasters between France and Ukraine. It's all there is to it. And the fact that, for example, an elementary approach to the other side does not mean that it must provide a positive answer, that is, there is still some reverse for each country to make another personal decision about an event or another. But I went up to this rostrum to say what might be most painful and burning today. I want to talk about because this is about possible technological catastrophes, and I want to say what France has, maybe one of the highest technologies in nuclear energy, Germany in Europe and France. And certainly a wise country, a wise government, what would they do? Of course, they would try to contact France and, let's say, take French technology. If we really agree that we need energy and we need to increase the amount of, let's say, our nuclear blocks at power stations, of course, we need to take the most modern, state-of-the-art technology. This could be done either in Germany, where they have a colossal center so nuclear in Karlsrue, such a town, or the brothers in France. Instead, our government is taking over Russia. What are we risking? But we're risking that if we're begging for gas and oil today, tomorrow we're going to ask them exactly the same thing, because these are Russian technologies, and by the way, not to give nuclear fuel at our station much easier and easier than covering taps and stuff. Because of this, I think it's a really important document, and we have to vote for it. But I'm paying attention to the government, don't do anything stupid, don't tie Ukraine up again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u50	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u51	Don't tie Ukraine to a Russian chariot - it's very dangerous.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u52	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u53	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. Dear colleagues! The deal is extremely convenient for Ukraine, especially if you look at the detailed content of this agreement. It provides, in particular, for assistance and advice from rescue operations. If we analyze the participation of some powerful countries in the elimination of natural disasters and technological disasters, French experts are involved in virtually all such operations, we can see this not only in Japan, but in other places, that is, they are, in fact, professionally, well prepared. Both the interaction and the experience of French experts in saving the population from technological disasters are very positive from natural disasters. And what's right and what's right in this area, I just want to point out what's meant when they say technological accidents: fires, or industrial explosions, or in public institutions, accidents in transporting dangerous substances, accidents in rail, air, sea, and automobile transport. So we're doing a great job of extrapolating the situation to Ukrainian realities, and we can say that for Ukraine, this interaction with a country that knows this is very convenient. But I would also like to point out another positive point that is in the text of the agreement, that is, the practical meaning of this agreement, is not so purely a framework. It says that in order to ensure the efficiency and operationality of the rescue operation, each party should contribute to simplifying and expediting formalities related to the crossing of borders and states. We have seen several times not only on our own but also on international experience, when not only days but hours solve matters. And they saw that even other countries couldn't send their rescue operations because of such bureaucratic formalities. Such an agreement is worth keeping.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee supports the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has also given a positive opinion on the bill. I am voting on the proposal to approve the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on Mutual Assistance and Cooperation in the Field of Civil Protection. [[Registration number 0204]] Please vote. [[10:58:22]] For 310 Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the abolition of the tax police. [[Registration number 8022]] Rapporteur – National Deputy of Ukraine Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on Legislative Protection of Sweden, Viktor Dmitrovic. Since you're proposing a cut, I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. Please be sure. [[10:59:14]] For 205 Decision taken. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u55	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, the abolition of the Tax Police, could be talked about such things as: the tax police is a repressive penal body, 10,000 people with guns, more than 20 general positions that are killing business every day, who without a reason listens to people, detains people, violates the sea of criminal matters. It could be said that the two committees of profile supported the bill. But I'll tell you something else. I want to remind you that we were at school once and studied physics. Do you remember, the value of the useful operation of the steam engine is about 3 percent? So in the tax department, it's 10 times smaller. Each year they break about 5,000 criminal and search cases. The court is up to a maximum of 20. What about the rest? The rest is illegally stopped by the D.A.'s office, or by cash, property, fear, murder, and so on. This structure is absolutely unnecessary. In most parts of the world, it is gone. These functions can normally be performed by the police, and where corruption is concerned, by the Security Service. Such a decision must be made. I am convinced that if Yanukovic had given good, that decision would have been 400 votes today. And there's a test for him, whether he gives it good or not. But I'm sure, regardless of what he put down today, the tax police will be canceled, which means after Yanukovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u56	Thank you, too. Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz, head of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u57	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection at its private session and the author of the bill reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the abolition of the tax police. The committee supported the idea of the bill, and I want to emphasize the idea of the bill. Since those tax-police liquidation mechanisms that are set up in this bill seem to require substantial work, we believe that there should be no militia units in the fiscal authorities controlling the services, and that the police in the State Tax Service should not bear and perform such a militia function that they are forced to pay taxes. We on the committee believe that the tax police should be separated from the State Tax Administration and transformed into a criminal justice body within the Ministry of Finance system, that is, the financial police. The Committee, despite the fact that the decision of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate proposes to reject the bill, by a majority of votes recommends that the Supreme Council support the bill and accept it as a basis. We believe that the very fact that this bill is being adopted on the basis of a serious signal that the question of the reorganization of the tax police has already matured and that the authorities are obliged to take action to establish order in this system of law enforcement agencies. The committee, I repeat, supported the bill, I ask you to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Andrew Schlell, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u59	Andrew School, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." I would like to address our viewers, our listeners, my fellow national deputies, with what we will normally support, our faction, we will clearly support this bill. But, well, I just think that's a good reason to talk about why this question really matured and was supposed to be resolved earlier. We now have a system that's not just criminalized, it's not just forcing entrepreneurs or people who, well, I don't know, plan to do business or do business, or they just have other incomes, maybe not from entrepreneurial or even creative activities. They, well, I don't want to use the word "fear," but they really don't like the whole structure that's called law enforcement and related to controlling their activities, because the rudiments of the Soviet past, the Soviet past, they're pressing on the Ukrainian system. I'm not talking about the general principles that are hard to explain, hard to explain to a foreigner, and not from a far abroad, or from a neighbouring Poland, to explain what is, there, canceling the trial we have, that. Or do we, there, have confiscation of property in the entire family for the actions of one of the members and so forth. And the same rudimentary thing about the past is increasing, deepening and increasing opportunities for a structure that would just have to control, control and control people's taxes. And when we have a tax police that, in principle, would have to be, well, most of all, the department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it turned into a separate unit, it has other functions. We remember how often we used the tax police to pressure a businessman. And believe me, the people who work there, at least very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u60	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u61	So actually, I think that the law of reinvention, we have to now answer whether we want to have a Soviet system or a Ukrainian system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u62	Vladimir Karpuk is handing over the right to speak to his colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u63	Ruslan Knazevich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, well, it's a completely impenetrable bill, although I can see that the attention of the hall is completely unattached and people are dealing with other issues. But believe me, today we're looking at maybe one of the more important bills, at least in this session. It's about not just the rudimentary, just as Andrew School has just said, so far the Soviet is being preserved, you know, as such a completely foreign, foreign thing in the Ukrainian system, according to the state system, but also an extremely parasitic system, which may be one of the reasons that doesn't allow our economy to develop properly. It's about the tax police, but it's not about the tax general fiscal authority, it's about the special authority that's authorized to do the search and search. The result is thousands of criminal cases, thousands! And we're going to have to go to court. However, the court’s judgements take on an even lower number. So where does this 99 percent load of labor go, as it were, in the paws of the tax police? It simply dissolves on the way through the reconciliation of tax subjects with the relevant entrepreneurial activities of certain or other criminal cases that have been violated. In what way, we know. It's long ago become a highly profitable, fairly powerful system business that's not that easy to eradicate. But I'd like to point out that, despite the fact that this issue is being initiated by an opposition representative, I would still be very happy that not only did most people today support it. And she listened to the President's report, which recently said that a serious reform of the tax service would also be proposed as part of a change in criminal justice. Including, perhaps, the elimination of the tax police. Let's not wait. Because our entrepreneurs don't have time to wait that long. I'll remind you that tomorrow we want to pass the anti-corruption law, where the tax police, think about it, it's determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u64	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u65	To fight corruption among entrepreneurs. We've just left the tax havens, and tomorrow we're going to have multiple tax reruns as a result of this anti-corruption activity. To prevent this from happening, let us today make an extremely important and timely decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u66	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your performance. Then – Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill provides for the transfer of the Ministry of Internal Affairs only to the functions of the tax police. In addition, the question of the further fate of the militia’s individual composition was overlooked and the bill was not resolved. This is the fate of nearly 10.5,000 experienced WAC workers who will be released if the project is adopted. You know, I wanted to respond to a line thrown from this rostrum by the previous speakers, which the Soviets smell. Yes, our biggest mistake is probably ours, which is very good and positive, which was in the so-called Soviet Union, the Soviet Union, we left there, and we left the bad and the negatives here. All the negatives of that life were passed into this system, and the good ones were left there. That's the first clue. Now, with regard to the author of the project, who said, well, there's a plush or minush someone put in there, and fate is already predetermined. Maybe you have the pluses and the minuses and the bets. And these are your pluses and the negatives that you put yourself on, they came back to you in the election. Before we take a decision, however, the issue is carefully analyzed. And so in this situation, you say correctly, maybe we need to abolish, transform, reform, modernize and so on, but we need to understand one thing: we must not fail the budget, we must not fail the budget. As this depends on the financing of all social and other programmes. So in this situation, to cut the checker and politically say beautiful, we've eliminated, I think it's not entirely reasonable, and it's not entirely thoughtful. That is why we may come up with this decision. But once again, it shouldn't be empty. And we must think that the replaced system should be equally effective in filling the budget. We propose not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u68	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u69	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The purpose of the bill is to decide three ways. The first step is to optimize the tax and law enforcement systems. Well, it's become common, under the word optimisation always hides elimination. Something's holding you back. Let's get rid of it. This is the style of government activity. The second step is to improve the conditions for entrepreneurial activity. Of course, for entrepreneurs who are violators of current legislation there will be improvements in conditions, there will be no abuse of taxpayer militias. And the third direction. Reducing corruption in Ukraine. Is there any hope that such action can be taken to overcome corruption? So in Ukraine, the entire state machine is corrupt, then it should be eliminated in general. Some believe that there is now every reason to consider ways of reforming the tax anti-crime system by concentrating adequate human and material resources on the Ministry of Internal Affairs system. Isn't there the same footage in the Ministry? Would it not be possible for the same tax officers to work there? The main scientific and expert department believes that the elimination of the tax police in such a form and at present is pointless. What positive effect will the adoption of this bill have? That is the reason we do not see too much. There are other important points to be made to the bill. That's why the faction of the Company of Ukraine is supporting the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u70	Yes, Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, for the sake of objectivity, I want to say that in most countries there is no such thing as the sensitivity of the tax police. There are many countries in Europe where the tax police are. She's not loved, it's true. In Ukraine it is not loved as well as tax service, and apparently there is a basis for this. But in this case, all those who spoke in the discussion actually talked about the need to reform the tax service itself and the corresponding and tax police or the police. And the bill is actually about, and that's how we do it in the daytime, about the abolition of the tax police. So this question is questionable, and it's not clear. So I don't think it's necessary to reject, reject this bill, the idea of reform, obviously, just to switch attention to a serious, complex bill to reform the tax service itself and its various departments. So I think the best way to do that is to get this bill redrafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, from other factions, no one insists on the performance? No, it's not. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office made a proposal on the need to reject the bill. In accordance with the Rules, honourable national deputies, I propose to vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the abolition of the tax police. Registration number 8022. Please determine how to vote. [[11:15:06]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second proposal to re-read the bill. [[11:15:31]] For-93 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u73	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u74	Huh? Me. One more time, it's analogous. Dear colleagues, I hereby declare the bill rejected. Yes, I propose a draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act. [[on the moratorium on the closure of rural schools]] Registration number 6615. Rapporteur - Ukrainian National Deputy Viacheslav Anatoliyovich Kirilenko, co-rapporteur - Secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, Catherine Seminovna Samojlik. Since you're proposing to consider it short, I'm going to put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please, please don't shout. [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg you not to shout. Let's think about it this way. Disgusting opposition thinks it's a principled law, let's look at the full procedure. Isn't that right? We'll find it without a scream of understanding. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u75	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine. This is really a very important law, because it applies to those people, those children who may be the least protected in our country right now. This applies to students in rural schools who are now suffering from what is, on the one hand, a weak rural infrastructure, a lack of pedagogical prestige, and on the other hand, the actions of the authorities, the Ministry of Education, are aimed at shutting down rural schools even where they are, arguing this incomprehensibility. I passed this bill on July 1st last year. By the way, if we had considered it earlier, we could have saved hundreds of rural schools that had been shut down by now. By the way, the destruction of rural schools is an integral part of the policy of destroying Ukrainian education as a whole, and it is no less dangerous than, for example, the destruction of the external evaluation system, forced pre-school education, the destruction of academic and student self-government, the ruse of education, the falsification of history, the reduction of public procurement for higher education institutions and the increase in pay for student education. Last year, on this subject, concerning the closure of small schools in rural areas, the Minister of Education, Tobacco, explicitly stated the intention to close all small rural schools, which is 3,000, 500 schools with a total of about 13,000 rural schools, about 26 percent of the total number of schools in the country. More than 80 rural schools in tobacco last year were closed, and this year the process is planned to continue. The discussion that children from closed rural schools will be taking buses, is evidence of either non-professionalism or deliberate abuse of people, because if the minister of education were more frequent in the country, he would know that any bus bought there in the village after three months becomes unrepaired and requires continuous and continuous repairs for which, of course, no Ministry of Education and no authority at all will allocate money. Unfortunately, this is the state of rural roads, and unfortunately, this is the real state of affairs. And in general, if you take a general humanitarian section of this question, if you take a rural teacher out of the village, the Ukrainian village itself will be destroyed. And you know, right now, with the tendency to close small schools, there's a trend in the so-called optimisation of a network of treatment facilities in the country, which means that there's a complex attack on rural intelligence in general, which means the village is like that. Because I repeat, take the teacher, the doctor, the village ceases to exist. So this goal of the Ministry of Education has far-reaching absolute intentions, and in general it also coincides with the fact that not even in the country schools are closing down. Now in spite of the fact that the Makiyevka, Red Luch, Donetsk communities are protesting against closure, by the way, mostly Ukrainian schools, which are completely complete, which are working, which are properly provided for both pedagogical and educational loads, and these protests are already taking place not only in those areas, but throughout the country, and there are parliamentary inquiries every week, protests are even threatening to burn themselves in one of the schools in Makyivka, because people, the parent committee are protesting against it. And there's virtually no response on these subjects, partly there is, but basically the authorities continue, I think, a completely unnecessary orthodox line in this case, which is to close even schools that don't absolutely need this closure because they function normally. So please tell me, if such a process takes place even on matters to which social attention is attached, what about rural schools where few students are taught? Who will protest at Kiev, the capital, the ties to power there in the village? People will simply have to submit to such a decision because in the village they are used not to protest, but to work, and thus the village will suffer systematic destruction, unfortunately there is no place in our recent history. In view of this, we have every reason, as law makers, to stop this process. I'm a long way from being able to stop him with just some sort of determination. Because yesterday Parliament had unfortunately not voted, in my opinion, a perfectly sound draft decision by one of the colleagues who proposed to continue the moratorium that had been set up in 2008 to close rural schools. Unfortunately, most of us didn't support this project yesterday, really, if it did support, I don't think it would be an order for an Education Minister who won't pay attention to the fact that these schools are closing down. Because he directly said, dated September 30th, just last year, commenting, by the way, on the public prosecutor's remarks at the interdisciplinary council about what schools are closing down, our so-called minister of education said, "The closure of incomplete schools is not a basis for a prosecutor's response, but what we should be proud of." End of quote. I mean, the Minister of Education Tobacco is proud that only last year more than 80 public schools in the countryside have been closed down, in rural areas, teachers have lost their jobs, children have been forced to go to other schools for tens of miles, and the minister of education is proud of this process. Therefore, it can only be stopped by dismissal, but since President Yanukovic refuses to release the Minister of Tobacco, the legislators can change the situation by adopting the law. In view of this, I propose a change to article 11 of the General Secondary Education Act, which clearly proposes to ban the liquidation of state and municipal public education institutions in rural areas by 1 July 2012. With this emphasis, this also applies to the change not only of municipal public education institutions, i.e. where the local community has funding and attitudes, but also of the general public. Because it's rural jobs, it's the prestige of rural education, it's the education of rural children, and it's the overall support of rural development in general. Because taking into account the situation in the village now, this support from education, from all budgets, is urgently needed. [[both local and national]] And shutting down everything that works is an approach that can't withstand any criticism. Because if this way goes on, then in the village, all schools will be closed, all the FAPs will be closed, all the rural infirmary will be closed, because there are few people working there, and there are few people living in these villages. I do not say that this will be the case, but unless the logic of authority in humanitarian politics is changed in general, it will be the case. Thus, such logic must be stopped and stopped in a legislative way. Moreover, over the past few years, statistics have shown an increase in birth rates in many regions in absolute numbers. This trend will still continue to take place because it does not collapse, or even increases social programs to stimulate the country's birth and pay for the birth of a child, taking care of the age of three. [[That's what you should say.]] So that's where he is. This is the right policy of the state. And since this policy takes place, contrary to its closure of rural schools, it is only motivated by the fact that now, compared to the standard in this school, it is very wrong. So in view of all the arguments that I've been trying to make as depoliticized as possible, because I am still hoping to support the conscious part of the MP Corps, I propose to amend article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on general secondary education on the moratorium on the closure of rural schools. And at least a year and a half at least, I want to go on and on and on and on and on, and other longer terms, to ban the closure of state and municipal public education institutions in rural areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question to Viacheslav Kirilenko. Names of the national MPs, please. Yes, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u77	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Mr. Viacheslav, do I support your bill to impose a moratorium on the closure of rural schools and my motive for what you think? Mr. Tobacco conquered our hall -- most of it, and they voted in favour of an 11-year education. Recently in the media, we heard a statement from Mr. Tobacco that we may have been in a hurry to move on to the 12th. So if we throw ourselves from one end to the other, it's clear that we're going to dig into education. And do you not see that in his activities, Mr. Tobacco, it is the policy of closing schools to destroy education in Ukraine? And don't you see in most of the behavior of playing this completely unwise policy? Because if we're shutting down the school, that means we're shutting down the premises. And if there's no room, the kids stay on the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u78	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich, for your question. I think so, by the way. And at the beginning of my talk, I made a brief statement on this subject. I think that the policy of closing small-scale rural schools, which in general means the policy of narrowing rural education, is to continue other policies of Minister Tobacco, which are that secondary education is being reformed so that teachers are only getting worse and they're going out. You know, there are objective indicators, if tens of thousands of high school teachers are protesting against the tobacco minister’s politics in Kiev under the Cabinet of Ministers, that is, there is an objective assessment of what his subjects are doing in this position. That's the whole reform of secondary education, the transition to a 12-year-old, that's the increase, and that's all the motivation: pay to teachers, that's what you don't have textbooks and everything else, the same kind of crisis, unfortunately, and in higher education. Exit here is one: the resignation of this poor minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u79	Xenia Leapina, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u80	Thank you, Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. I would like to ask, Mr. Viacheslav. Well, we all suspect that today is the day of the rejected bill. And it is likely that this important bill may also be rejected. What do you think will be the outcome of this bill's rejection, and therefore, most likely, the further collapse of rural education? What effect will this have on the nation as a whole? What effect will this have on the demographic situation in Ukraine, taking into account demographic waves, considering that the number of children in need of education is likely to increase in the near future? And isn't it going to be there and there with this closure, then looking for the opening of schools, as it was with the gardens in the early 1990s, when all the gardens were closed in revenge, and now there's queues and records, whether or not from birth, to get into the nursery. Won't it be the same with schools now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u81	Thank you, Xenia Mikhailno, for asking. It's more fitting. Because I was also trying to develop your opinion in a report on my bill. I think that the approach that basically involves just closing problems, even in rural areas, is a kind of unprofessional approach. Because the general policy that is stated in government documents is aimed at increasing social standards, increasing social pay and other things that are supposed to improve the situation, including in rural areas. [[I'm talking about declarations, about intentions.]] There is a real policy on this background, not a declarative policy. And the real policy of rural schools is the clear intention of the Minister of Tobacco to close at least 3,000,500 schools in the country. Think about it: 3,000,500 schools in the village, which he considers to be incomplete or small, of almost 13,000. This means that all declarations of social development are not more than a declaration, but rather a declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u82	Yes. Another question, Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u83	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear Viachelav Anatolyevich! I want to thank you for your legislative initiative, because this is a nationwide initiative. How many calamities and problems the Minister of Tobacco has brought to today’s functioning authorities and today’s majority are listed. So, as far as I can go today to the parliamentary majority, I'd like to take down the Minister of Tobacco. But you won't go for it. That's why you have a great way out of this: supporting the Viacheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko bill. Because if you want to hear everyone, because of this bill you have to confirm that you are exercising the right of the President's Gram and you hear that rural schools, rural intelligence, rural children are asking for your support. So, your honor, you're giving a test today. A test for parliamentaryism, a test for humanity, a test of responsibility. I urge you to support the legislative initiative and give at least one positive vote today. The Kirilenka bill is appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u84	Thank you, Reverend Lilia Stepanovno, for both the questions and the evaluation of the bill. I am far from the fact that the Party of Regions will support my bill today. Well, it's not because he's wrong, it's because it's going to work, unfortunately, against the corporate interest. And there will be no positive vote. As for the Smoker, they know everything. The material part of the matter is that compulsory preschool education is introduced, and kindergartens are not built, teachers are not paid money, and there is no money for it. There are no textbooks, teachers on the street. And this poor minister himself is already starting to talk about going back to 12-year secondary education. That, in higher education, the university community and students have consistently opposed its drafting of the new Higher Education Act. That students on the streets, because they're protesting an unsavory increase in pay for a school that they can't cover on their own or with the help of their parents, that's the background. And when it comes to voting, let the authorities decide. We have to do our job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u85	Yes. Thank you. Time's up. Catherine Semenovna Samuelk's report is the secretary of the Committee on Science and Education. Please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u86	Thank you very much for the opportunity to express yourself personally, but most importantly, the opinion of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. I would especially like to address those who are initiating the bill today. If you had supported my bill four years ago, which prohibited, in fact, the destruction of both rural and urban schools, if you had supported it, and President Yushchenko signed a bill that allows for the reduction of the filling of classes, the reduction in the number of students in classes where you can share in the study of individual subjects, unfortunately, this has not happened. I wanted to make choices, I wanted to do something different, and now I'm with you and I have to ask you what to do next, not just with the country school, but with the city school. Because we're saying the approach is very narrow. Just a village school. What, though, about cities where schools do not shrink, schools do not close? They're closing. Why are we so narrow in our approach? So it was still fair to say that President Yushchenko did not want to sign this law and opened the door to shorten the school. I would like to emphasize to everyone who listens to us that the school cut has taken place both in the past government and is going through now. And we need to talk about it honestly. What is proposed? At the legislative level, ban the liquidation of state, municipal, public educational institutions in rural areas by July 1, 2012, and establish that only with the consent of the territorial communities. I would like to point out that part of article 11 of this bill clearly states that the implementation and liquidation of rural educational institutions based on municipal property is permitted only by the consent of the territorial communities. So we only add a date. As for the date. The date proposed by July 1, 2012, which is not allowed to be eliminated, and if the law is not allowed at all, the drafter of the bill is only until July 1, 2012. Well, we have to explain why until this very period. Why not by 2050, 30? Why by July 1, 2012? That is, we need to reason on what this is about. Next. I would also like to highlight what is being proposed to include state institutions. Dear colleagues from the opposition and most! I want to tell you that there is no public school in the rural area. They're all community institutions. That's true. And you will be confirmed by the Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. And so, really, the committee came out of a narrow approach. What the question is only about rural school. These include questions related to the closure of the city’s school. That it's not really well founded on how it's going to be solved. What I'm trying to say is... It's embarrassing that for 20 years of independence, we're looking at these issues. And all governments have cut and closed schools every year. It's a disgrace! After the war, they opened the next day of school! Children were taught literacy, and children wrote for lack of notebooks on newspaper paper. But there was learning. So let's say that today. Everyone has joined the destruction of our school. Please take responsibility for yourself too. In general, a comprehensive bill needs to be prepared. It could be based on Tomenka's bill and Volinz's ruling, which we voted for among other things.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u87	Yes, please, a question to the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u88	The committee’s decision is to send the drafter to take note of the comments and to reflect them in the laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u89	Yes, please, a question to the committee secretary. Sign up. Vladimir Moisik, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" gives John Stoyk, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u90	Carpuku please pass it on to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u91	Oh, Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u92	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear Catherine Semenovno, why in rural schools? You know the statistics that out of 3,000, 700 small schools with a small number of students, 3.6 thousand are in rural areas. You can call me the numbers as soon as the school bus program is implemented. Because this is the program that applies to the rural population. And when the bus is, whether it's old or it's picking up schoolchildren from a few villages, and children spend two or three hours just getting to school and the same way back. Of course, the first steps are to be taken in rural medicine. And let's, really, I did, we voted in favour of Volintz yesterday, too, because this is a determination. But how else can we get the Ministry of Education to develop a scientific program? How do you get the school bus program to run? Only by adopting such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleague, I don't think you can abandon the faction that I represent, or me, that we're working against this logic that you're talking about. We supported Volinz, we supported pension insurance, we also supported Mikolia Vladimirovich Tomenka's bill. The more he tells you, the more we consulted him. But we're asking the question that, really, we don't have to be so narrow about this, that schools are all over the place. It's about the school bus. It wasn't me, and it wasn't you who invented it in the Cabinet of Ministers. It wasn't in the other Cabinet of Ministers. When Julia was Volodymyr, the program was virtually shut down, no cash was allocated. Last year, half the money was allocated to the School Bus. But I don't think the school bus can solve the quality of education in both rural and urban schools. You're the one who closed it, John.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u94	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u95	Please give the floor to the national deputy Kravchuk Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u96	Vasil Kravchuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear Catherine Seed! Now, what we're wondering is what position the Communists are, as members of a well-established coalition, if a school is closed in the village, you're comparing it to a city, but there's a school in the village. If the school closes, then the village disappears. And what has been done by the government for the social development of the village in the last two years? Is there even one article in the budget for the village to develop? What has been done to ensure that young people remain in authority? Therefore, this bill should be clearly supported and not compared with the village. That's its specifics.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u98	I asked very carefully to respond to what I said. And secondly, I said that the position and the faction, and mine will be, in support of the bill. But I expressed the opinion of the committee, which, among other things, made these remarks unanimously. And I think it's a pretty good point. What's more, I've told you, the article repeatedly forbids the closing of existing schools. And you're banning closing schools until July 12, 2012. You can't do that, as you can't do it, colleague Karpuk probably talked about medical institutions, it's also a matter of questions. I'm here to discuss with you on a case-by-case basis a bill that would, among other things, contain criminal liability for violations of constitutional rights of access to education.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u99	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, the time is spent in the report and in the report. Let's move on to the discussion. I would ask that we have clearly considered this issue more broadly and comprehensively. And for the sake of reflection, for the speakers, I'm going to give you this statistic right now. When did we begin the process of this mass – closing schools? In 2002-2003, we had 22,000 100 schools, 2003-2004: 21 000 900, 2004-2005: 21 000 700, 2005-2006: 21 000 600, 2006-2007: 21 000 4, 2007-2008: 21 000 200, 2008-2009: 21 000, 2009-2010: 20 000 600. Calm down! 2010-2011: 20,000 300. It's official statistics for thinking about schools. Dear National Deputies! We need to look at this problem in a complex way. That's what I call it. That's the only thing I've done to get this statistic. So I'd like to ask our colleagues less expressively in this regard. Now let's write this down for the factions first and then the national MPs. May I have the names of the national MPs who will speak from the factions to show. Yes, Mikhailo Chechetov, Stojko, Zarubinsky, Yavorowski, Leschenko. Now please sign up. One minute, Mikhail. Now register with the National Deputies. Let's talk about 30 minutes: 15 minutes from the deputies and 15 minutes from the factions. No objections? Please have the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yes, let us turn to this question. Dear colleagues, perhaps such an offer will be -- please, one minute -- so that we can make a statement from the factions now and then take a 30-minute break or finish the question and then take a break? How much better? I'm gonna take a break. Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u100	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! There has been criticism from the current authorities of the fact that we are trying to close Ukrainian schools. You know, there would be logic in this criticism if we were to advocate that we have only one state language in Ukraine: Russian, and then we would really leave only Russian schools. You're advocating that there be one state language, Ukrainian, not us. We suggest, on the basis of reality, that when half speak Russian, half speak Ukrainian, both Russian schools and Ukrainian schools. And there is no prejudice to the fact that the current authority is biased in shutting down schools, net. Now, the second question of closing schools is: yes, there should be no prudence, but everything cannot be cut under one ridge. This is about the same as in one room: at one temperature 36 and at another temperature 40, on average 38, let's treat the same two – both sick and healthy. Therefore, the quality of education must be viewed first and foremost. Perhaps the child in both the village and the city and the district centre and the district should receive quality education and be given opportunities to continue in higher education. And it may not be said that the school where one, two or three people in the classroom, or four people in the school, and one teacher conducts several disciplines, both mathematics and history, and English, and Ukrainian, and Russian, is difficult to say that quality. We will ensure quality. After all, the school should not only provide education; the school should educate, teach young people in the community to live, to be communicable, and the school should train organizational skills. And if he's alone in class, what is it? It is therefore important to consider how it is reasonable to opt for the optimisation of schools in order to preserve both teachers and the teaching community, and teachers who are qualified, but most important for children to receive education. And probably where there's opportunity to drive to a school where there's a large group and skilled teachers, and the school's doing educational work, and so on, and there's circles, it's probably a better option. And with regard to what has been said that there will be no positive vote, there will be a positive vote. Next I'll say, and there's a perfectly sound thought, and there's a good grain in this bill, but it's just going to light up the red light, and I think it's going to be totally wrong, and it's going to be equivalent to the temperature in the middle room, which is what I've been giving you. Therefore, the bill must be sent for further work and then returned to the new text to address the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u101	John Stojko, the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", Viacheslav Kirilenko will speak from the faction. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u102	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues! You see, I'm against politicization, and this social problem, and this particular social problem, we're already trying to replace the problem, for example, with language. What's the use of language, fellow believers? In the village, yes, they speak mostly Ukrainian, but there are Russian - speaking villages. You're closing schools around the country and in foreign-speaking villages. So this is an approach that characterizes the power and policy of the Minister of Education in general, in Donbas, yes, you're shutting down mostly Ukrainian schools, and the question is why? What, the main problem there is Ukrainian language and education in Ukrainian? Hardly, as everywhere, is the main problem there, the social, wages, the failure of you to implement a single tariff network, the lack of the ability to buy products, more precisely the absence of them, because prices are going up very fast. These are the problems that you are trying, including now to keep quiet, and to raise another problem that, as you have just been shown by Deputy Carmazin, has long been solved by the Ukrainian Constitution in 1996. The national language in Ukraine is Ukrainian. And a dot. You don't have to shake things up in the country, because it's still not gonna work. Now for the approach. He's got to be state-owned. Are we going to remember who did the wrong thing in 20 years? But everyone did something right and wrong. But this is not the reason for you, the current authorities, to shut down all rural schools and motivate them by saying that there was little place in the past, and this is an anti-government approach that should not be present in serious public policy. Now on the subject of the law. There's a little misinterpretation of the facts in the submission of the material from the profile committee, from the reporter, to the big flip-off. Because my bill clearly leaves the norm that the restructuring, liquidation of public and municipal educational institutions in rural areas is permitted only with the consent of the territorial communities, now and forever. But I'm proposing a period until July 1, 2012, we can take another term, a larger term, but we want to stop you, the authorities, because you've started closing everything, so let's not close anything for a year and a half. So my suggestion is that the elimination of public and municipal public educational institutions in rural areas by 1 July 2012 is not allowed at all. Even if you pressed on the sylrada through the district administration and put the deputies on the back of your neck and voted in favour of the school's liquidation, there will still be no such decision because there will be a moratorium of a state-wide nature established by law approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the whole point of my proposal, and at this point, I think it's all that's necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u103	Oleg Zarubinsky, a faction of the People’s Party, will be next in line for Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u104	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, if I reject the advertising-political-propagandist component, and my belief in the legislative process of advertising and propaganda should be absent, the more where education is concerned, the more there is, the more there are, the more there are, the more there are a few problems that they don't want to pay attention to, because there are two sides to each medal. Clearly, finding the right arguments, on the one hand, is the right thing to do. On the other hand, on the other hand. I've been watching TV recently, and I have no reason not to trust, a special story, a special report. There was a village school where one student was taught, about eight or nine years old, and there was a teacher. She's teaching everything, really, she's teaching all the subjects and she's probably going to be teaching all the classes for years. I understand, Your Honor, you can yell because you don't have kids in normal schools. And the problem is that they care the most about this child who doesn't get any education, and you understand that, and it's going to be uncompetitive even with the students at the district center, and I don't say in Kiev anymore, but you don't think about it. Why? Because children are located, if not abroad in schools, in foreign schools, there are foreign schools in Kiev. That's right, you see. So we have to look the other way. The next moment is very important. Next on the 12th. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to shout! When you talk about public opinion, why do you use it when it's only convenient for you? 80 percent of both teachers and seniors and all of them are in 11-year education. Don't flip! Don't lie! Because you speak of public opinion only when you feel comfortable with it. You don't give a shit about public opinion because you teach your children abroad! Get them to a regular school! [[Applause]] Get them to a regular school! And then you can talk about something. And one more moment, I think it's extremely important. We have to consider who will teach in these schools who will. Think about it: A successful graduate of a university of education may want to go to a school where one student or three students attend. He's not going. The twins and the trinkets that will form the elite of the Ukrainian nation will go. So, your honor, when it comes to small schools, it's not supposed to be propaganda, it's supposed to be professional, differentiated attitudes depending exactly on each individual school, where it can give a normal level of knowledge at the expense of those teachers that are there, not one teacher, and where this child will be competitive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u105	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Ah, Mikola Tomenko's handing over the right to speak. Next up is Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I wanted to tell our colleagues who speak Russian here, so that we Ukrainians don't have so much in Parliament that we don't get insulted, there are no Ukrainians and there are no Ukrainians, even in Russian, well, learn whatever the state and nationality of the state is here. [[Applause]] Now, about the socio-economic aspect of the problem. Yesterday, most parliaments, apparently at the request of the President, who very much liked the project at the Alkantara Cosmodrome, voted that $260 million should be given for the project. And to teachers who had been promised 20 percent of the salary increase since April 1st, the project has not yet been prepared, the government has not yet given us a project. Well, if you'll excuse me, there's some way to prioritize between people and international projects. So I have an email address here today that our teachers are doing. The Great Minister of Education invented four new exams in the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and seventh classes in April. And teachers collect 60 bracelets from their parents, about 70 bracelets, to buy brochures that no one has seen and pass exams that no one has ever heard of. Well, my friends, I went to the President, to the Attorney General's Office, and we can't stop this impenetrable?Oh, my God! And there's only one person to be planted for having already gotten to what the minister's cash is collecting from the four classes of 20,000 schools. Now it's about the bill. I really think it would be right to go out with the general principle. Not to share rural, urban schools, but with the general principle in the law. Moreover, the Law on Local Self - Government provides guidance on preschool facilities that are desirable to be transferred to general schools. Stepan Dawimuk and I have introduced this bill, but unfortunately you know that the day of opposition is unique because no one votes for the opposition bill, well, I mean the authorities. And the bill failed. There's a clear standard. The territorial community, as it is now in law, must have a tool. What instrument in the village? Rural congregations. What instrument in the city? Local referendum. I'm assuming there are some rural schools where 3 children or 4 and maybe the rural community will go for it, but you have to have a tool. If the rural congregations have voted, this must be done. If there's been a city referendum, then that's what we're doing. And let's say selectively rural Ukrainian, Russian, I think that's a temporary principle. Of course, we support the ideology of Viacheslav Kirilenka, but once again we must write down our respect for the territorial community once and for all. Decisions should be made, not by a district administrator or an official of the Ministry of the Soviet Union. So we're going to protect both the Ukrainian language and the Russian language, so we're going to protect both the city and the country school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u107	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u108	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! This extremely painful problem exists and needs to be addressed urgently. In protecting the interests of the villagers, Communists have always resisted the closure of schools and other social facilities in the countryside. And yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was considering a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of general educational institutions in rural areas. But unfortunately, because of the faction of the Party of Regions, it's not supported. The bourgeois state has been destroying the village for almost 20 years. The goal is to take the land away from the peasants, to put it in the hands of a large capital. In this regard, she cut off collective agricultural enterprises, took away peasants’ jobs and wages, forced young people out of the village into cities and abroad, left elderly people in poverty. So in 20 years, this authority created a very negative demographic situation. As a result, both presidents and governments, regardless of whose authorities and whose political powers are in power, are constantly talking about optimizing whether, as it were, the destruction of educational institutions, health care, rural cultures. This was done in orange times. And at the time, the drafter of the bill, even the Vice Prime Minister, worked, did so, and now that the regions are in power. I call you back! Stop destroying the village, the cradle of Ukrainian spirituality! For they have shut down the school in the territory of the silage, and some villages of this silage have disappeared from the face of the earth. There is no doubt that this bill is presented for populist reasons. He spoke, see how the representatives of the bourgeois opposition care for the people. They simply did not say how many schools were closed during the time of the author’s stay on the official olympics. Such a bill is not acceptable in principle. Why is the school closing moratorium only until July 1, 2012? You're hoping for a rematch in the parliamentary elections at the expense of populism?Oh, my God! Nevertheless, the Communists support him. And the offer. All schools should be state-owned. The State should be fully responsible for the child from birth to education. It is appropriate for schools to be funded equally from the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the factions. Since it was suggested to announce a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes, after the break we will conclude the discussion with speeches by the national deputies. Break to 12 hours 33 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u110	We are continuing our sessions, please take 15 minutes to speak to the national MPs. Tushenko. Get ready for Kenzior. It's a knock-off. Steshenko's handing over to Prokopchuk, please. Behind him is Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u111	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. First of all, I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Litvin, for allowing us today to consider such an important issue in full, as opposed to yesterday's. And I want to bring to the attention all of what is happening today in the Plains region. An area that is the leader of birth among the Ukrainian regions. Since September 1, 2010, school in the village of Grušovka in Sarnen region, where about 20 children have been enrolled, has been suspended. Because of the so-called optimisation of the school network today, children are forced to travel 20 kilometers to Stepan Public School. In addition, the bus, which is in a state of emergency, almost half of the time, did not drive, and the children missed their lessons for almost two weeks. In addition, such events take place in virtually all areas. Today in the city of Breznom, in the city of Sarnah, people have protested against Yanukovich’s aberration, against the destruction of the rural and district schools, against what is happening to children who have no food on the national program for 7 days, because a corrupt firm has been set up, and so on and so forth. It was because of the criticism of the authorities that Rostislav Wojciekhowski, director of the rural school in the Radivil region, deputy of the Supreme Council of Fatherland, ordered the head of the district government administration of Stankević. Made with his right hand, Mr. Bezpal, with some unknown person that they still can't figure out who he is. There was much talk about this problem. School buses were mentioned, earlier governments were blamed, but they needed to be formalized. I would like to state firmly that the government of Yulia Timoshenko has built schools in Ravenska, and today the government of Yanukovich is destroying them. The government of Yulia Timoshenko has been developing education, and today this education is being destroyed. So, dear colleagues, you're all going to the county, I'm addressing everyone regardless of political beauty, you're all going to promise the same teachers who are in line for unemployment, you're going to promise parents who won't know what to do with their children, because they're now limited, and they don't respect the Constitution for their guaranteed right. Whatever the issue, this bill needs to be supported. And remember Griboyedov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u112	This must be Griboyed here for absolutely nothing. Jaroslav Kenzior. After him, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u113	Jaroslav Kenzier, "For Ukraine!" Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished voters! Unfortunately there is no Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wanted to thank him for one phrase, I think it's a reasonable phrase when he asked us all to look at the problem of education, Ukrainian education a little bit in the broader context and complex. This is absolutely, because when we look at just one fragment of this big problem of shutting down a school, of course, it won't let us look at this problem more broadly. I think it's up to the honourable colleagues and honourable voters to start our educational reform with at least two steps. First step. It is urgent to resign today’s Minister of Education, Comrade Tabannikov. The second thing to do. Perhaps, at first glance, this problem has nothing to do with education. I believe that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin is the head of the Supreme Council or any chairman. Two of his deputies should turn off the microphone here on the stand of the Supreme Council or on the spot if the Ukrainian national deputy, taking the floor, starts it in Russian. This should be respected by the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u114	Jaroslav Mikhailovich! I can turn off the microphone because you're calling for a violation of the Rules. There's a rule in the Rules that allows you to speak any language. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u115	Adam Ivanovich, I mean, first of all, the Constitution, its 10th article. The destruction of the national essence of the Ukrainian State has always been due to the destruction of education, or of Ukraine, or of any state. This process of ever destruction of education started any accident that came to Ukraine and began with the destruction of education. This process is reinforced by the demands of some of the political powers of the second state language. Can you, gentlemen, imagine when all of this, as it were, will be implemented, what will the Ukrainian army be like? Do we have a few armies? Donetsk, Lions, Carpathian? How would a soldier of the Ukrainian army speak when he entered the service? So we really need to look at this problem more broadly. Why Do Ukrainian Villages Die? What you have to do to be in the village. People didn't run out of the village, did they?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u116	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi. Get ready for Zybenko. Please, Liczuk. It's the same thing as Galicina. So, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u117	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! As a result of the natural decline in population and the decline in birth rates, the number of pupils in general educational institutions is declining. Special emphasis was placed on these processes in rural areas, where there has been a marked decline in the average enrolment of classes and an increase in the number of general education institutions with a small number of pupils. Yes, according to statistics, 1 out of 5 general education schools in the village has fewer than 40 students, resulting in a significant increase in the cost of maintaining general educational institutions, individual education in the general and secondary education system, as a forced form of education for students living in villages and villages, when the number of students in the classrooms is less than five students, ensuring the right of citizens to complete general secondary education. The number of hours for the organization. Learning is much less than allowing for a marginal burden on every student who learns from the classroom system, which is a violation of article 15 of the Ukrainian Education Act. The position of the Party of Regions here is absolutely clear, no doubt the opposition today will vote in favour of declaring a moratorium on closing schools in rural areas, but we know well and understand that today's teacher will not and will not want to work in a school where 5-10 students are studying, about the quality of such training is not enough to speak. And about the first, fourth stage of the U.S. Olympics, the students of these schools can only dream. Regrettably, we, dear colleagues, should count today and how much money the budget will spend on such schools in vain. The faction of the Party of the Regions supports another: the grouping of such schools, where the network will be clearly maintained, where the teacher’s weekly workload will be carried out. We are saddened when a math teacher is to read algebra or geometry in school. It's different here, in order to ensure weekly workload, the school director has to additionally look for hours from other subjects. And yet another important point, the teacher's passing the first test. What is the subject of a retraining course? Our job is to create the right conditions for both students and teachers to teach. And that's why we're going to be trying to run the school bus program and take the students to school. This will benefit both students and teachers, and eventually the budget will not be affected. The faction of "regions" will not support the Viacheslav Kirilenko bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u118	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists, with him is Dmitri Schlimko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u119	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'm not going to talk about the significance of this question, it's absolutely obvious to everyone. And I just want to give you one argument in favor of that. I think it's a matter of real national security for Ukraine, because in Soviet times, Ukraine was a republic that had one of the highest educational levels. And over the past 20 years, we've lost a lot, and we can't lose the last. I have no doubt that national MPs are aware of the importance of the issue, but I would like to point out one difference. It is simply that someone, who is currently temporarily or permanently in opposition, is trying to make greater use of this issue in political rather than social and educational terms. And that's trouble, because the problem is indeed, and I am absolutely convinced that there is no national MP who doesn't realize the significance of this problem. I want to say one more thing that the Ukrainian people are hearing. And the point is, absolutely convinced that there is no school, there is no village. And this thing, it's very important. And that's why we have to do everything we can to save it. You know, there's been a lot of warnings and comments about the content of this problem today. She did. There are indeed serious remarks to this bill, but nevertheless the position of the faction of the Company of Ukraine is quite consistent. We voted yesterday in favour of our draft decree. My colleague Eugene, who offered to take a decision on this matter, was unfortunately not accepted. As consistent supporters of the idea of saving school education in the countryside, we will vote for this document, even though the observations that are there are to it, because, indeed, we are absolutely consistent and aware that this is a question of Ukraine's future, that it is a question of Ukraine's true independence and national security. And the last thing I'd like to say is to finish. You know, when I hear from this rostrum the call for the resignation of the Minister of Education of Dmitry the Tobacco, you know, it's proclaimed as such a mantra that the Tobacco should go, it reminds me of the expression of the famous Roman senator who, beginning by finishing his speech with any questions, claimed that Carthage should be destroyed. Dear colleagues! We should be concerned about the problem, not the personnel aspect of solving it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u120	Please, Dmitri Schlemko. Yavorowski's giving the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u121	I am absolutely convinced that if Carthage Carthage is such a Carthage, it must be destroyed. Ichtiologists know that there is such a type of fish, called the mushroom, a small fish that cleans the sides of the shark. Moreover, sharks even let the fish in their mouths, and the sponge cleanses their teeth — that is, they are not afraid, knowing that the shark will not bite it. I have the impression that we have this faction in Parliament that we can absolutely call a scoundrel faction, which means that there are great fans of the people who are going to ruin this bill today. And the bill is absolutely necessary, you see, we're coming to it from different directions, I'm making my draft ruling, I'm making Kirilenko a draft decision, I'm making Tomenko. Because let's spread a little bit of a framework, the thing today is not just in school, to be honest, I have such a feeling that the power of power today before the Jubilee, until the 20th anniversary of Ukraine, is doing a project, a project that is very strong, powerful, so that Ukraine can come before the 20th anniversary, with the rest of that education that is, absolutely with spiritual famine, and with the famine of culture and education. And whoever's telling me, I don't like to repeat everything that others have said a hundred times, but I just want to say that this anti-Ukrainian operation is done by the Tobacco. The free man of whom his associate, today the vice-premier, who is responsible for spirituality, is responsible for culture, has said, and what he can do in general, except for paintings and books from and so poor museums. Could there be a more murderous judgment against this person? Because of this, we are well aware that there is a process, of course, that there is a process of extinction today in the village, a painful process, and it is indeed objective. But when this process is being accelerated deliberately in order for the closure of schools to become a closure of the state of Ukraine, no other way, it is exactly the plan that is being looked at today. What do we have today? The teacher of the higher category, according to the law that we passed, is going to get 2,000, I emphasize, teachers, and remember, 2,000, 35 dollars, and he gets 1 thousand, 325, 710 dollars doesn't pay the teacher today. That's why today I want to thank our teachers who stopped being apathetic because we had this and we have the most conservative segment of society, that they've finally risen up and that they've come here to Kiev. And because of that, I'm sure today you're going to crash this bill, but you're never going to collapse Ukraine, you're going to lose your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u122	Is there a wish for a closing word? Please, Kirilenko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u123	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The discussion only once demonstrated that this topic is incredibly vicious, hot and relevant, which political arguments would not now justify their refusal to vote in favour of a moratorium on the closure of rural schools, yet they do not endure any criticism. Because it can be said that there are no Olympic winners among the graduates of rural schools, although clean water is not true. The graduates of rural schools may be insulted, but this is an entirely cynical approach to closing down rural schools. And that's what we heard today from the mouth of the MPs from the Party of Regions. So what I'm saying is that the Smoker is a Smoker and, by the way, Carthage is the subject. So I want to remind you that Carthage was destroyed, and the Smoker will be released, inevitably. But now the vote of the Party of Regions, if they don't vote for the moratorium on closing rural schools, will demonstrate that this position is far more than just the Minister of Tobacco. This is obviously the position of Prime Minister Azarov, President Yanukovic and all the new authorities. That's what this vote is about. So not the Tobacco closed 80 schools last year, but plans to close 3.5 rural schools out of a total of 13,000 rural schools. And that means the government is planning it, so the head of state is planning it. That's how you'll have to understand not voting for my bill of the Party of the Regions. And that's why I want this to happen so far, that's 1 minute 11 seconds to go, that's depoliticized. And take the moratorium until July 1, 2012 to close the rural schools. Because so far the Ministry of Education has not found any recipe for improving the quality of rural education except for the closure of the same rural education. Dear colleagues, what cluster are you talking about? You show me where it's going, where are these new school complexes built in 5-7 villages that you're talking about? Where these new kindergartens are built, where Ukrainian children should go, because tobacco is now the responsibility of preschool education for both children and parents. So we were given a new responsibility, and new kindergartens were not built. And the same is true of rural schools, and there are no new schools. So closing up the active is a highly immoral, highly unprofessional and extremely non-stately approach. I propose not to do so and to vote in favour of establishing a moratorium on the closure of rural schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u124	Thank you. Question completed. It's literally two words. What is the problem is that each of us understands and understands. But now, for objectivity, I want to draw you back to the figures that the Head of the Supreme Council called. And those who spoke today, I reiterate, during the years of the so - called Orange Authority, 900 schools were closed. Let's do it today. Including Viácheslav Mikhajlovich, who led the movement, closed it, and closed it at Mikola Volodymyrovich, and, unfortunately, closed it at Tobacco. So we really need to put an end to this. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act. [[on the moratorium on the closure of rural schools]] Registration number 6615. [[12:53:14]] For 139 Please, by the factions. The Party of the Regions did not give a vote, "BUT" – "Fatherhood" – 60, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 38, Communists – 24, "Reforms for the Future" – 11, People's Party – 1, non-fractional – 5. There's an offer to direct the initiative to work with not until the 12th, but always. I'm putting this motion to a vote: send a bill for redrafting. Please vote. [[12:54:04]] For 334 Decision taken. We're discussing the draft law amending article 12-1 of the Ukrainian Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security Act. [[on the organization of issues of social protection of the population living outside the area of monitoring of uranium mining and processing enterprises, nuclear facilities and facilities, and on the task of dealing with radioactive waste]] Registration number 6713. Can we cut to the chase, Mikolo Volodymyrovich? There is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please be supportive. [[12:54:56]] For-200 Supported. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, he's both a reporter and a committee. You have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u125	Thank you. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished National Deputies, Committee of Fuel Energy and Nuclear Security, reviewed the draft Law amending article 12-1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security on the Organization of Social Protection Issues of the Population, which resides in the area of monitoring of uranium mining and processing, nuclear facilities and facilities designed to deal with radioactive waste. [[Registration number 6713]] During the discussion and decision-making process, the committee took the following into account. First. On November 17, 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine overcame the veto of the President of Ukraine and adopted the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the organization of social protection issues in the area of monitoring of uranium mining and processing, nuclear facilities, and radioactive waste. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine is the second, the decision of May 20, 2010, No. 14-RP 2010, in the case of the President's constitutional submission on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine, some provisions of the amended Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, declared that his separate positions were unconstitutional in the provision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to determine the size of the accounts and the order in which the budget of the assembly was converted into socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in the area of the observation zone. Third. In order to resolve the issues raised by such a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2010, I introduced Bill 6713. Four. Since the registration of Bill 6713, he has partially lost the approval of the legislative base. In particular, on January 1, 2011, the Ukrainian Tax Code became effective, setting out a new list of public taxes and congregations, and was recognized as having lost its validity, the Ukrainian Tax System Act. Next. However, the bill did not lose its relevance. The cost of a congregation set up in the State Budget and the congregation must deal with it according to the "Transitional Regulations" of the Tax Code. Next. Prior to the legislative resolution of the problems identified, the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on the organization of social protection of the population living in the area of observation, number 6713. Before the draft law was finalized, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council made a number of observations that generally do not affect the substance of its basic provisions and will be partially taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. This question, in our view, is very relevant today. We see what's going on in the world with the direction of energy like nuclear energy. We know the fate of this energy in the overall consumption and production balance in Ukraine. So we ask you to support this question. On the committee where this issue was addressed, all factions unanimously supported the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u126	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u127	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u128	Besides Carmazin, others insist? Yes. Carmazin, Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u129	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. The honourable national MPs will certainly be faced with what we have, the anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, we need to be careful about all those laws, especially what the government is proposing, and they will soon consider these bills. There was a proposal to cancel and install only government payments to the Chernobyl sufferers. I would like to draw attention to the positive that is in this bill, which defines the sanitary protective amount, the area. It's being defined. It is an area around a nuclear facility and objects designed to act. In the sanitary protection zone, population housing is prohibited, there are restrictions on manufacturing activities that are not related to nuclear installations or to objects designed to behave. I'd like to point out that this is also about, in paragraph 3 of Part One of Article 12 on benefits for consumer electricity. True, we record that the tariff on population and the order of compensation for damage are established by the State Regulatory Authority for Electricity in accordance with the Electricity Act. No reference has been made to this organ before. And this organ right now and I'm stressing, because I'm going to make changes to the second reading of this law, and this organ isn't working for the population right now. And if we're talking about what's going on with people's payments now, everything that's related to tariff payments, the government today is stealing an average of 500 dollars per month from every budget person in the country. That's why I'm going to prepare and address the Attorney General today as a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u130	The Attorney General has nothing to do with us now, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u131	I'm finishing my opinion. That I will refer to the Attorney General's Office for reasons why I will ask questions about the criminalization of Prime Minister Azarov's leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u133	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! You know, the tragedy in Japan has shown how small and fragile the Earth is. And in the event of a nuclear disaster, it is not possible to hide what is in the territory of your country, but also to hide in another country, at any point in the Earth's sphere, because a radioactive cloud can pass around the earth and fall on the heads of Europe and Asia and Africa and America as precipitation. "Focusima" is breathing us all in the back of the head today. And many, virtually most, Governments, where there are nuclear, nuclear reactors, are reviewing their policies, revising their position on enhancing nuclear security. You know, before that, it was said that the Party of the Regions would not vote against the opposition today for any of the bills. I mean, we don't look at authorship. Please. Nikolay Martinenko, participant in the orange mayan, associate leader of the orange revolution of Viktor Andreevich Yushchenko, but if he introduces a bill that is really necessary for a country that needs people, and I think he will be applauded by society, we will certainly vote, and we invite you to vote. And we invite you to vote in favour of this bill. Therefore, in this situation, we will always support any bill that goes at least to the right, at least to the left. But where we will see the protection of national interests, where there will be no corporate spirit, where the challenges of national importance will be pursued and addressed. We invite everyone to vote in favour of this law. And thank you to the author for drafting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u134	Yes, the discussion is over. True, for the sake of objectivity, Mikola Volodymyrovich also expelled the same president from certain party positions. I am voting on the basis of the first reading of Bill 6713 amending some of the laws of Ukraine on the order of social protection of the population in the area of observation. Please vote. [[13:05:08]] For 310 Decision taken. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on National Compulsory Pension Insurance. [[on the involvement of entrepreneurs in insurance]] [[Registration number 7212]] Kseniya Liapina's bill. Can we cut it short? We can. I'm making a proposal to review this bill with a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:05:52]] For 211 Thank you. Please, Xenia Mikhailno.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill contains, on the one hand, very important standards for entrepreneurs that they spoke about and stressed from the very beginning of the entrepreneurship arenas when they took place under the Supreme Council in September. This is a question of the overburden that the entrepreneur is now carrying, a natural person who works without a hired person, carries the enormous burden of paying today’s only social contribution in the previous year’s fixed pension contribution. This bill proposes to establish, at last, a fair standard, and I will explain why it is fair to allow an entrepreneur -- a self-employed person for himself to decide and voluntarily decide whether to take part in or not to participate in the corresponding solidarity pension insurance because, I emphasize, this entrepreneur does not participate in such social solidarity insurance, then does not apply for appropriate internships in those years for which he does not participate in this insurance. This, by the way, is already provided for by law. Why, in fact, do entrepreneurs today view the sole social contribution not as social insurance at all but as part of the enormous tax burden? Because they're not actually getting anything back. We recently held a round table on which a female entrepreneur had just retired and said, "If I had worked in the shadows for the last five years and had not paid a penny to the state, I would have gotten a half-past pension than I would have received as a legal entrepreneur and paid a minimum pension." Today’s system is unfair with regard to entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs have a very separate status. Look, half of this room, I know, actually, the main revenue does not come from salary, but from dividends, from capital, from equity.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u136	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u137	or other businesses. And these dividends are just 5 percent tax and nothing else. Similarly, entrepreneurship should be taxed because it is a completely different activity – not provided by the State, it is fundamentally different from that of the employee. But. The last word I want to say. Unfortunately, we're looking at Bill 7212, which in fact, in the vast majority, has lost its relevance. Because today's Act on the Only Social Contribution has become effective. And on November 15th, the drafters of this bill submitted another bill, 7364, in which all those standards were transferred to the new Single Social Contribution Act. And this is the Bill 7364 that needs to be voted on and adopted in this room. And this bill. I understand that, unfortunately, it will be rejected from the technical even problems, because, in fact, I just lost my relevance because of the validity of the Single Social Contribution Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u138	Thank you. Xenia Mikhailno, then I believe that your application can be understood as a request to be removed from consideration. I am voting on a motion by the author of the draft motion to withdraw Bill No. 7212. Please vote. The author explained what happened. [[13:09:45]] For 265 Once again, I point out that Kseniya Mikhailovna explained that he was one of the co-authors, that she was more detailed in another bill, so we did the right thing to you. Yes, let's go to the chapter: inclusion in the agenda of the session. Dear colleagues, let's do this. I'll give the drafter two minutes to justify it. I understand what you want. Do you want to stay out of the agenda? Let's give it a word. Thus, the inclusion of Bill No. 8161 in the agenda of the day session is under consideration, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the settlement of individual issues of foaming for late payment of housing and utility services and the activities of performers/producers of such services. We have the bill. Serbian and Potipchuk. Who Will Stand Up? Serbian, please, microphone, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, as they say, are remembered first, so I will start with the last. This bill received a positive conclusion from the scientific and expert board and two committees: social protection and our committee – construction and regional policy. This bill does not put any strain on the budget. And now, essentially. We now have a billion 400 million dollars in payroll debt. Seven percent of the people who get their wages get their wages below their living minimum. And now we're going to try to take the penalty for non-payment of housing-communal tariffs on time. What does a person do when he is cornered? She even stops paying for residential services. And this is evidenced by the fact that housing payments dropped from 96 percent to 91 percent and, unfortunately, continued to fall. So this is not just about protecting people who don't get paid, not getting a scholarship or other income, and living below the subsistence minimum, but also about supporting housing and utilities, because we need people to pay for residential services. And this payment will only be when a person sees that this payment is real and he can do it. And the second question. We've been talking about energy efficiency, energy saving technology for a long time. But if the person standing with the key does not stimulate himself, there will be no energy - saving measures. So as authors, we suggest that we give it to those companies that make life and save electricity, heat energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u140	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u141	We're going to pay 50 percent of this economy as a salary, because I'm reminding you that our utilities get twice as much wages as they do across the country. So it's not a political law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u142	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, from the committee. I don't see Fish. The committee considered the bill. His offer is to send for work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, now, let's see. Yes, they are willing to share in the discussion. Sign up. Pavlovski, behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u143	I ask you to give me the floor to explain some of Mr. Serbin's points, to give him the word, the author of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u144	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, I confirm that both our committee and the Committee on Social Protection have supported this bill. Now how will people be able to pay this 50 percent? So if this 50 percent of energy - efficient technologies are to be paid as a wage to utility workers, local authorities need confirmation of the quality of services provided to the population. That is, to be implemented and concluded by consumers so that consumers do not have claims to the services of water companies or to provide them with heat. And on the first question of not counting a penny, how does he do that? This is commissioned by the Cabinet of Ministers to work this mechanism, it's completely real and it's set out in an explanatory note. But still, in order not to get involved in the issue of executive power, we're proposing that the mechanism of foaming, of confirming that you don't get a salary, and I've given you an example of how many people don't get a salary right now, this mechanism also needs to work out the Cabinet of Ministers. And what this bill is aimed at, I also explained, is that there's no relation to the budget and that it's impossible to say that the budget is going to be lost. And what's important is that we don't lose the companies that feed and provide our people with heat and water. And those who have no income from their own fault will not have an extra yoke hanging from their necks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u146	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Imagine the situation, first of all, I want to thank the author of the Serbian People's Deputy for this project and Potapchuku, and I want to thank you for the tolerance and courage of the chairman of the Committee of Fishback, who wrote that the bill could be accepted as a basis. And that's the Committee's opinion, by the way, about construction, construction and housing and regional policy. And that's what the science and science department said. It's a rare question, because a rare coincidence is when thoughts coexist, because we know that Mr. Ribak, as chairman of the committee, represents the Party of Regions. But nevertheless, this law is designed to protect those people and such a particular situation that has now taken place in Odessa. When I'm speaking to the President of Ukraine and I say, Mr. President, in Odessa, the refugee detention center, the migrants 200 people, one third of them children, the fourth month you don't pay, Mr. Azarov, the people who work there. I'm going to an empty place because we don't have a government.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u148	Yuri Anatolyovich! Turn off the microphone. This is not the subject of the bill. You talk about foam and so on and so forth. If you are not paying someone, you should explain to one another, not here, discussing a question that is not relevant. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u149	Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u150	What's with the refugees?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u151	That's the reason. For the fourth month, for the Ukrainian people, for the civil servants, for the fourth month, we didn't pay the salary, and we wrote here that they had the right to non-payment, to collect pennies for late payment services, to delay payment of salaries, pensions, scholarships, and so on. Adam Ivanovich, I demand you apologize because I have enough experience not to confuse the question I'm speaking on, Adam Ivanovich. And I would ask you to be democratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u152	Thank you. You've finished your speech, it's given you extra time, sit down, please. Sit down, I'm sorry, you've been talking, sit down. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of individual issues of foaming for late payment of housing and utility services and the activities of manufacturers of such services. [[Registration number 8161]] Vote. [[13:19:52]] For the 180.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u153	Factions: The Party of Regions – did not vote, BUT – 50, "Our Ukraine" – 20, communist – 22, Reform – 12, The People's Party – did not vote, non-fractional – 4. The issue is being addressed, the draft Act on Prior Action.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u154	That's very good. But we can't work on getting into the agenda. If we put it in the agenda, we could work on it. What do you want me to do here? Draft law on priority measures to prevent higher prices and tariffs for residential services. [[Registration number 8162]] Yes, please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u155	Yes, that's what the co-author said at the meeting of the profile committee. Sergey Volodymyrovich, don't worry. Dear colleagues! The purpose of the proposed bill is to introduce a moratorium on higher prices and tariffs on residential services and on the consumption of natural gas and electricity in order to pay off the arrears of wages. It has already been noted that it now accounts for about 1.4 billion dollars. In addition to this bill, it is proposed that the state's debt be paid in full before the population is prohibited from counting from January 1, 2011 and that it be collected from Ukrainian citizens for late payment of housing services. The bill, honourable colleagues, is primarily aimed at strengthening the social protection of the most vulnerable groups of the population, such as veterans of the Great Homeland War, pensioners, disabled persons, multi-child families, and so on. In recent times, as you all know, there has been a sharp increase in prices and the main groups of food products, services, electronics, and so forth. In recent times alone, housing, water, electricity, gas, and other types of fuel have increased by 15 percent or more. At the same time, 80 percent of our fellow citizens receive a salary of up to 3.5 thousand dollars. The minimum wage is higher than 7 percent of the population. So I'm asking you to back up our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u156	Thank you. If you want to share in the discussion, write it down. Kirilenko Ivan, Carmazin is next. Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u157	Andrew Pavlovski, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! The Timoshenko Block is "The Fatherland", supporting essentially a bill on the introduction of a moratorium on rising prices, tariffs and pennies for early payment, as long as there is such a shameful phenomenon in the state as the debt of wages and other payments to the population. And I'd like to point out and clarify the previous reporter that now as March 1st, this debt has gone up, you've called out-of-date data. Now it's not 1.4 billion debt per salary, it's 1.5 billion dollars, so it's a very bad trend to increase that debt. But the government, the current government, which is part of the Communists, continues to raise gas prices for utilities. This makes our citizens' lives worse. And if, indeed, the authors of this bill, which is part of the Communist Party, were really behind the social slogans, they would be on the barricades, they would urge the people to strike, actively resist this power, the great capital of blood-breeding bourgeois, but unfortunately, you are now sharing responsibility with them. But we will support this bill, no matter what. Because nobody's doing social protection right now. The unions are now under the Party of Regions. And what kind of social dialogue did Janukovic sign? On the one hand, for the government, Tihypco, on the other hand, for employers, Firtash. [[the main sponsor of the Party of the Regions]] And for the unions, it's Harry's party of regions again. Well, it's such a partying intercom, not a social dialogue. And that's why no one protects the people except the opposition. And the opposition will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u158	Thank you, Andry Mikhailovich, for your valuable advice and concern for the Communist Party. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u159	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, strangely enough, the previous bill was practically in line with this bill. It was the only place where we could stop paying the penny. And here they go on, and I thank the authors and Peter Simonnka and Matthew for writing down that before paying off the arrears of wages, other payments of money, I would like to introduce a moratorium on raising the price of housing-communal services and the use of natural gas and electricity. But what I would like to ask the authors: and on what grounds did the people of Ukraine, who own the beneficial fossils that were mined here in Ukraine and produced 20.5 billion cubes, raise the price of gas to the Russian? On what grounds? You did it, you helped do it in the budget you accepted. It was you who helped and gave the government of Azarov the opportunity to do so, and to transfer the funds into the pocket of Firthash. On what grounds has every Ukrainian been robbed? Because to every Ukrainian, a citizen belongs this, a gas, like what has been given to God. And we're saying right now that we're going to ban the price increase. In general, there was to be a completely different mechanism of pricing. I will support this law because the second article of this law provides for the failure of a state to pay its wages, and I would like to say, to clarify, my young genius colleague Pavlovski, which is not one and a half billion, my friend, they do not show that the treasury prohibits exhibiting so that the President does not know. Tomorrow, the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u160	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law on Preventing Prices and Tariffs for Housing and Utilities. [[Registration number 8162]] The drafters are Simonenko and Matthew. Please vote. [[13:28:34]] Z-91
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u161	The factions. The Party of Regions did not vote, BUT – 50, Our Ukraine – 11, Communists – 24, Reforms – 2, People's Party – did not vote, non-fractional – 4. Not included in the agenda. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act on the Indexing of Pensions, Wages and Social Payments at the level of inflation. [[Registration number 8247]] Sobole, please, the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u162	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! What made me submit this bill? I got an answer to my deputy's request from the State Statistical Committee, where I'd like to ask you to make calculations, on the basis that last year you determine the level of inflation, the consumer price index at 9.1. I got the answer from the State Statistical Committee, and the key positions I'd like to illustrate to you. And not just the national deputies who attend the sessions, but also the millions of citizens who are able to visit shops, markets, and services every day, including utilities. I was impressed by the response of the State Committee on Statistics. Because it turns out, for example, that a product like rice in the last 2010 year has dropped prices by 5 percent. Although when we analyzed the country’s average, it turned out that 140.8 is a year’s increase in rice prices. Bread and bread - making products that are similarly directly viewed in the proper order when the level of inflation is determined. It turns out, according to the State Statistical Committee, 111 percent. The indicator that we have received is determined directly by experts, who are published in all media outlets by manufacturers, to be 136.9! Think of it, 111 - 136.9! Even more so are the rising prices of fish. Because the State Committee on Statistics saw 4 percent growth per year. The real increase was nearly 200 percent. Also, if you take milk. According to them, milk prices have increased by 20 percent. According to data directly on key indicators, 165.3! Cheese: 125 - 142! And this list can continue. Even for Mr. Azarov’s favorite cabbage product, it appears to have grown by 19 percent in a year, and by the figures available today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u163	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u164	324 percent! That's why when we calculate this consumer price index, we demand 42 percent index wages, pensions and aid that were not indexed according to real price increases, consumer price index. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u165	Yeah, we'll talk about it? Let's sign up. Calchenko. Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u166	Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u167	Ivan Kirilenko, please. He's behind him, Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u168	Dear friends, let's remember, exactly a year and a half ago, there was a full-scale faction of the Party of the Regions that said, in the midst of a crisis, that you could raise social standards, which is pensions, wages, scholarships, social assistance, you could raise it two times. You've been here for six months with breaks. And we did. You wrote one law and you made your decision. As a result, we have what we have today. The results were then achieved in the political battalions and were successfully forgotten. Friends, during this period, over a year and a half, really, if you look at not only what colleague Sobolev said that happened in the food market. And notice, last year, every Ukrainian family spent 37 percent of their budget on food, and the European family, 10-12. Official data: The Ukrainian average family spends 58 on food. And here comes the official decisions of the official authorities or authorized authorities to officially raise the corresponding percentages, not the tenths, but the prices of natural gas, electricity, housing and utilities. Dear friends, count your family’s budget, and you will see that this budget is long overdue, not by percentage, but at the same time. Pena, and then what follows is the removal of the housing area, the removal of the apartments in court, putting people in an impossible position. Guys, let's just take a good look at things. We are for stability in society, stability in power is, but that's the top. Is there stability in society? Let's think about it. And then we counted the unions that, we know how they count, and how accurate these numbers are, but let's even trust them that raising housing services and the payments they're offering today will cost every family about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u169	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u170	About a thousand 700 bucks. 17 million families are 28 billion of the Ukrainians' pockets. Dear friends, we do not require a double raise, as you requested, but what the law requires is to index what is the real situation in the consumer market in the service market. I don't like it. Write your own, but we need to protect people, because we're risking stability in society. We propose to support inclusion in the agenda, discuss and adopt the bill. Enter an alternative if you don't like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u171	Knyazevitch, the microphone's out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u172	I ask you to pass the word to Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u173	Carpupuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u174	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is necessary to put the bill into the agenda and vote in favour of the bill because the consumer price index in the 2011 budget is 9.1. It is now estimated that this level is 11.2. So the inflation rate is already higher than the 2011 budget. The government is talking about fulfilling its commitments to wage growth. It's in real terms today, it's 60-80 bracelets. At least the government does not pay the main workers according to the tariff grid within a few hundred dollars. If it's for a doctor, it's an average of 600 or 800 dollars for today. All of this, however, eats up inflation very quickly. And even with statistics that should be published and commented under the law, all of this is not done and hidden. There's also a request to listen to the statistics committee. But even this growth does not cover it. It's not all covered by inflation. And people's real incomes are shrinking considerably. Therefore, this bill should be included in the agenda and supported in the consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u175	Please, Baldwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u176	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Respectable opposition! If you think that electorate, as it is now fashionable to say, or in other words, the people of Ukraine still believe your fiery speeches, you are mistaken. Because it's been a long, long time. It has long been understood that Parliament in our time is a place where people fight only for their place under the sun, and we are with you (yes, we are with you!) They made him like this. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't take responsibility personally, and from our political power, but what you've done is simply out of proportion to everything Kuchma did and what we did when we were in power. Because things like the 14.8 billion dollars that the International Monetary Fund had given away in 2009 to some black hole of money from the privatisation of the Crimson Islands, while Mittal, having received the Crimson Castle, became a player at the European level and swallowed the Arcelor, which he would never have done without having the Crimsons. And you declare your European agenda! So you played Europe with this. And your other accomplishments. For example, everybody's turning now. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen to me! Listen, study the material too! There you go. By law, it's very easy to speak. Just as you referred to official statistics in your own time, we also refer to the official statistics of the Committee on Statistics. Inflation is 9.1 percent, not 42 percent, as you write. That's why. And that's why it's yours. If you speak your language, that's why your law is totally inappropriate. He won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u177	Thank you. The contests will be outside the session hall, the discussions. Dear colleagues, I will, but if I'm not mistaken, we have a similar law that if inflation increases, the government is obliged to index wages and everything else. [[B in m in s a l in]] Show me the government that's been indexed. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 8247, namely, the draft Act on the Incentive of Pensions, Wages and Social Payments at the level of inflation. Please vote. [[13:40:19]] For 104
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u178	Factions: But 60, our Ukraine 16, the communists 24, yes, non-factional 4, the rest didn't vote. I'm asking the question. Consideration of the draft Law on ensuring the use of naphtha-gaseous naphtha in the interests of the Ukrainian people, on the inclusion in the agenda. [[Registration number 8108]] The author of the Goodim bill, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u179	The honourable chairman, honourable national MPs, the proposed bill is a response to the government's intentions to make a peace treaty with the notorious company Venko and to return to the property of a member of the Party of Regions, the richest man in Ukraine, the shelf of the Black Sea and the Azov Sea. If, God forbid, that affair takes place, the richest man in Ukraine will become the richest man in Europe. Thus, it is not possible to say the price of oil and gas on a shelf. This is our future, this is hundreds of billions of meters of cubic gas, hundreds of millions of tons of oil. So that's not how it works. But I think I'm going to be criticizing both my own bill and myself right now. When we did that, we couldn't imagine President Viktor Janukovich and Minister Boyko declaring to the world that they would sell 20 percent of the NAK Naftogazu gas because it was NAK Naftogazu, as a percentage of the state company, that we planned to transfer all kinds of oil and gas to the Black Sea shelf. We've already been given a signal. Even if you adopt this law when you supply oil and gas on the Black Sea shelf, you won't just let us give Vanko and the richest person in the Party of Regions and Ukraine, then we'll sell the entire Naftogaz NAK. And that's probably why President Yanukovic and Minister Boyko will come after such a statement to put forward a new bill to ban the sale of a 20% stock package. Until the President and his ministers do so, we have one way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u180	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u181	The future of our children. We should not do this to enrich our oligarchs, for if the richest man in Ukraine becomes the richest man in Europe, 46 million Ukraine will not win. They are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u182	Thank you. Who wants to share in the discussion? Let's sign up. Chechtev, please. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, you know, there are some mistakes. There's no mistake about someone who doesn't do anything. And when a person does something wrong in his work, it's no big deal if he sees it wrong, corrects it and so on. But there are mistakes that are made consciously and that cannot be corrected. As they say, it's a mistake once and for all. So I would like to call one mistake that has been made consciously once and for all, which will damage our economy, our national interests always and cannot be fixed. When we tried to make Russia an enemy in the last five years, then frozen, there was an unprecedented case, we froze half-Europe in early 2009, we left no gas, then quickly took advantage of our slaps both in the west and in the east. Then the Russians agreed with the Europeans, and they say that you will be sick all the time, that you will be sick all the time, so let's chase out two bypass pipes and everything, that is a guarantee that you will always be with gas and heat. And now, to this day, the South Stream, the North Stream and our pipe. If the value of our pipe used to be that the gas was going all over our pipe, now at best we will have to fight for the quota. As Victor Fedorovich does not agree with Nikolay Janović Azarov, we will guarantee transit. And Russia rightly says, for ten years, yes, the guarantee of 10 years that there will be no wonders, and where is the guarantee that in ten years, new freaks will not come and freeze Europe again? And Russia's interests are eternal, and as a result, two bypass pipes are gone, and all of us have lost it once and for all. The value of our pipe when the gas goes. If there is no gas, it is the breast of a rusted metal, you can sit on it, and your legs can be tied and heated in the sun. That's why we need to attract investors.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u184	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u185	Investors should be attracted, both Russians and Western Europe should be interested, and so should all together raise the status of our pipeline, increase the amount of gas that will flow through it and thus earn money in transit. This is the main issue, which is why the law is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u186	Karmazin, I've been following him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u187	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to return you to the years 2004-2005, when it comes to the privatization of the Crucifixion. Forget it? And I want to say that from this rostrum I have urged you not to do this! They did, including those in the orange camp. Made, given where, what, to whom? The violation of the Constitution was manifest, they did. Now there's another question. NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. I thank Mr. Goodimi for bringing up the project, but they screamed: don't do any national stock companies, it's stupidity, it's against the law, it's still done, it belongs to the state. If it's stock, there's already a problem, a big problem, though it really belongs to the state. Selling or not, of course you can't sell Naftogaz. And now Mr. Chechetov here said that this was a strategic mistake they made there before Russia and so on. Get out of your knees, respectable regions, don't crawl in front of Russia, they're in line for ours, right behind our hydrocarbons, they're behind Wenko. What, they didn't see that they were sharing, they were sending the viewers to Donetsk from Moscow, you don't know that yet? Then I'll tell you the truth then, and not even the Russians by nationality, if you don't know it. That's why, Your Honor, I want to say, let's put together a system of things in Ukraine, that's the first. And here's the question about rural schools, about everything else, I'll remind you, your government, which isn't here, that a million textbooks out of five million you didn't take for 10-year-olds in warehouses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u188	Thank you. Sergey was sore.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, I would really like to thank Mr. Goodimi for introducing the bill and I would like to remind you, you know, of a unique situation. Let us remember who was actually the founder of that company, to whom all the Nadars of the Black Sea and the Priory were willing. I think some have forgotten. Four students who were the founders of the supposedly international company Wenko Prikerchenska. By the way, one of these students is now giving extensive interviews in the press, telling me that she's allowing herself, driving down the highway, looking and looking at the Mercedes salon, and she's buying it without thinking. I always have questions about how they're going to give it up and who's behind these students. Now, here's the key question. Which, in fact, awaits us if such a bill is not approved. In my opinion, one thing awaits us is that we will no longer think about where the pipe will go, because we will have a trumpet. The country is going to be a pipe if the oil and gas reserves that we can count on, and what we're going to be convinced to mine, including using the world's deep mining technologies, we won't even have access to them. That's why if this bill isn't approved today in the session room, I'm sure it's the beginning of a national tragedy, a waste of national property, for which everyone who doesn't vote in favour of this bill will be responsible. So once again, by supporting him, I would like the session hall to make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u190	Yes, please, factions that didn't show up and groups. Chaplain, one minute, and then Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u191	Thank you very much, Adam Ivanovich. We discussed the matter quite extensively. Of course, the State of Ukraine needs to defend its own interests, particularly with regard to the oil and gas fields and the continental shelf of Ukraine’s Black Sea or the Azova Seas. But I would like to remind you of the proposals made by this bill. First. It's to set up the Naftogaz of Ukraine as the only user. The other one. That the hydrocarbons that are extracted from Naftogaz Ukraine should be used exclusively for internal needs. And the third. To limit the number of areas and plots that cannot be transferred under the terms of the redistribution agreements. But despite this, we have a situation today where there is no technology in Ukraine for obtaining such gas and for developing those oil-gas crops. The other one. We don't have the money. And especially because of that, we have a question about how to find them, so we need to invest. And that's what's important. This law, in our view, is technical and populist in some matters, because it contradicts part two of the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u192	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u193	Because it contradicts 85 articles of the Constitution. In this case, by making such decisions, we will go beyond what we have been given. So we encourage the legislative initiative to go back to work, work, and re-enter the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u194	Zybenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u195	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, you know, when we're looking at this bill, the question of including it in the agenda, we're mentioning once again that the truth is very often in the trifles. And here's the thing. The draft Law is called the Law on ensuring the use of naphtha-gasogasogasogasogasogen in the interests of the Ukrainian people. And it turns out that the content of the document is only one region, namely the shelf of the Black Sea. And not because it's the shelf of the Black Sea and a lot of it, big deposits, but because that's not why they're going to come back. Excuse me, but this reminds me of a saying about a soldier who is to carry a marshal’s scepter in the morning. I don't care what flag he owns the oil well, whether it's that color or something. So I want to emphasize that we're going to vote for this document, but to see what's going on in Poland, what's going on in Western Ukraine, what's going on in Western Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u196	I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on ensuring the use of naphtha-gases for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Registration number 8108. Please vote. [[13:54:08]] For-103 The decision is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u197	Oh, right, by the factions. But 62, our Ukraine 12, the communists 24, the Reforms 2, the non-fractional 3Y, the rest didn't vote. I repeat, the rest of the factions, the groups didn't vote. Read who hasn't studied the alphabet, come on, I'll tell you. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day draft Regulation of the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on the state of socio-economic development of the State for 2010. [[Registration number 8167]] [[The author of the draft regulation – Yacenouk Arsenij Petrovich]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u198	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u199	I'm announcing before the end of this matter is a continuation of the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u200	The Supreme Council of Ukraine has gradually lost one of its main functions, namely parliamentary control. After amendments to the Constitution and after the adoption by this Parliament of amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers, Parliament has become a statistician who normally vote under the direction of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration. The Cabinet of Ministers, which should be accountable and accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a year, has never reported for its activities. He couldn't do it. Because the parliamentary majority who then appointed this Prime Minister and this composition of the Cabinet of Ministers did not even succeed in requiring a government action programme in the current Cabinet of Ministers. There is no government action program, no cabinet report. There's no report from the Cabinet of Ministers, there's no responsibility. That's why I propose that this Supreme Council, whether it's the left, whether it's the right part of Parliament at the end, wakes up and says, "We're not just deputy statisticians, we're hired by the administration of President Yanukovich, but by people who are doing their duty to the people of Ukraine and want to ask the current prime minister and the current Cabinet of Ministers: The first is about prices, the second is about administrative reform, the third is about tax reform, the fourth is about pension reform, the fifth is about a government action programme that is not available, the sixth is about a socio-economic development programme for 2011, which is also not available. And they're going to give an assessment of what's going on in the country over the last year. This decision is the only legitimate way to invite the entire government here and ask them what's going on with the Ukrainian economy, what's going on with the social protection of the state, and what's going on with the country in general. That's why I'm asking you to vote for this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u201	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u202	Invite the government you have appointed, and ask them if they have done what they have promised you, perhaps even if they have done what they have promised you? Because they lied to the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u203	Yes. Anyone who wants to make a statement, please sign up. Ivan Kirilenko. It's Karmazin. Tomenko Mikola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I think that the question raised by Arsenija Petrovich Yacenuk is absolutely correct, although I would think it would be more fair, effective and active for President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine to announce tomorrow's resignation of the government of Azarov. That would be right in terms of the real situation of the last year. We know statistics, we know the socio-economic situation, you know what the real promises to the government, if anything is done, are equal to the opposite. There was a time when there was a fashion for promises, and now all ministers are thinking about how to live up to these promises. Recently, there was an interesting rating that President Janukovic's promises have been fulfilled, and in 500 of the world's better UZIs, there are a lot of Ukrainian UZIs. The experts examined, indeed, was such a Russian rating that, of course, was criticized in the world. But this rating for the academic year 2006 and 2007, yes, was then President Viktor Yushchenko and Minister of Education Stanislav Nikolainko. I just don't get it, the tobacco guy the president's reporting for? There was an attempt today to find some statistics and to inform them that something good had been done. I'm going to inform you that today, the Chief of Statistics, some in the heads of district administrations, along with the governors, write unemployment figures, jobs and small and medium-sized businesses. I don't want to blame all the statistics, but counterfeiting, falsifying statistics goes at the district level, it's pretty obvious. So we had to listen and have to know a completely real picture of what happened in 2010. By the way, he has now opened "Economic Truth", written: "An Analytical Note by the Security Service. In 2010, 60 billion dollars were withdrawn through conversion centers. In Kiev, 17 billion, in Donetsk, 10 billion." I have a question, and who's going to answer that? Once again, we support this decree. But it would be wise for Victor Yanukovic to release the government tomorrow without a report from the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u205	Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u206	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I'm in solidarity with Mikola Tomenko. He asked the right question. And to the chairman. I want to ask Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk today. Adam Ivanovich, you're the chairman you have to provide conditions for MPs to work. But this does not mean that we should have a light. This means that there are people sitting here who are the government of Ukraine. That's why I have a question. And thanks to Arsenia Petrovich Yatzenyuk for introducing the project, I want to ask him. Arsenius Petrovich, how do we report the projects, in short, such a project, without government, without those it relates to?Oh, my God! It's a shame, it's a disgrace! Let us open article 116 of the Constitution. What does the government do? It turns out it's supposed to ensure financial, price, investment, tax policy, labour and employment policies, social protection, education, science and culture. I already told you how. A million textbooks for the 10th class, the year ends, people pass exams, they didn't deliver them. What, maybe the opposition can help? I'm officially addressing those who are sitting in the government today, the Party of Homeland Defenders will ensure the delivery of textbooks printed at the expense of government funds. Give it a chance, we'll do it! Now, as far as socio-economic development is concerned, tomorrow the President has to announce that we don't have a government. I've announced here repeatedly what happens to the Constitution, how it is observed in the Odessa region and in Ukraine. So we found $130,000 to spend.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u207	Thank you. Sit down, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, wait. I would ask Sergey Volodymyrov Sasa to come to the shadow office of the Ministers of Carmazin and explain to him that we are not considering the issue, we are talking about inclusion in the agenda. If we turn it on, we'll listen to Kabmin. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, from the factions that didn't make it, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u208	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Literally three theses, as a replica to the author. It was said that someone had put the Party of the Regions on their knees. I want to answer with poems, "Donbass hasn't put anyone on his knees yet and given no one.".. And for you, Arsenius Petrovich, I do not advise you to stand on your knees either in front of the West or in front of the East, to serve Ukraine. The second point is that the government seems to be working for us, MPs, or someone. The Government works for Ukraine, for the people. Finally, the third is the Rules, please identify, 150 signatures, import and we will consider. To be clear, who signed specifically, 150 signatures and the government will be here in the rostrum and will answer. We propose not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u209	Helicopter, Yacenouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that sooner or later the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovich, will send the Cabinet of Ministers of Azarov to resign. And the whole part that represents today, the so-called majority, will applaud the President and say, "What a wise decision you have made, Victor Fedorovich." That's why I'm talking to you, do it faster, and he might thank you, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u211	Thank you. The discussion is over. The point is, if I'm right, you've been collecting signatures for years. Where are they? Indeed, the rights of Comrade Chechetov, 150 signatures, and there will be no problems, because with the results of our decision, even if we listen to the Cabinet of Ministers, we will not be able to make any personnel decisions about the Cabinet of Ministers with you. It's just going to be a discussion of the question and not more, but it's a constitutional norm. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Order for Hearing of Information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the State's socio-economic development status for 2010. [[Registration number 8167]] [[2:06:01]] For-93 The draft decision is not supported. Questions to the agenda are not included. Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u213	An offer to continue the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u214	I asked for words. Nikolai Vladimirovich Tomenko said a very serious thing in his statement. He said that individual heads of administration invited statistical managers and adjusted statistics. I think you all know that these actions are criminalized. Therefore, either Nikolai Vladimirović should tell who is dealing with this issue and present an appropriate submission to criminal responsibility, or he is himself an accomplice to these processes by concealing this information. That is why I would like to invite our colleague to give these names and to present them accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-06-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, we will conclude the meeting. Let me make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and in accordance with a personal statement made, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Skoubenko Volodymira Petrovich, into the Party of the Regions. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. We work on committees. I ask the committees to consider the issues that we put into the agenda yesterday, so that we can implement them tomorrow. I'll start work tomorrow at 10:00.
