ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests, invited to the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[10:01:44]] There are 373 national deputies registered in the session hall. Let me inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the April 7 plenary meetings. Twenty issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of their consideration, 8 laws and 11 regulations were passed, 6 bills were adopted on a basis, and 5 draft decrees were rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are held on Friday from 10 to 11 p.m. Representatives of the deputy factions made a proposal during the "hour of questions to the government" to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the prospects for pension reform and the repayment of arrears from wages. The Communist Party of Ukraine, the People's Party of the Region, the Ukrainian People's Party and the House of Reforms for the Future, based on part six of article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, informed the Cabinet of Ministers in advance of the questions to be asked during the "hour of questions to the Government". Today, dear colleagues, the First Deputy Minister of Social Policy, Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, will answer the question. I explain that the candidature that we have identified on the Conciliation Council for the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister, for good reason, the objective reasons that Sergey Leonidovich is in hospital, so the Cabinet of Ministers has entrusted Vasil Ivanovich. I would like to point out that Prime Minister Andri Petrovich Kljevev, Deputy Prime Minister of the Pacific, Minister of Finance, Minister of the Interior, Minister of Education, Minister of Defence and other representatives of the ministries and departments. The minister of the environment came. I mean, most of the cabinet ministers are taking part in our, in our hour of questioning. Once again, my dear colleagues, we will give 30 minutes to the questions that have come from the MP factions and groups. And then 30 minutes goes into the question of the MPs: 1 minute to the question, 2 minutes to the answer. Please, Vasil Ivanovich, please. Sass, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Twenty-six written questions were received from the National Deputies, of which four questions were addressed personally to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Social Policy. From the MP's faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" 9 questions: the MP's faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine - 3 questions, the MP's faction of the People's Party - 6 questions, the MP's faction of the Reform for the Future - 2 questions, the MP's faction of the Party of Regions - 6 questions. Let me start by answering that they don't have a personal request. And so the question first came from the Communist Party faction and it sounds like this. "At the beginning of this year's salary debt is 1 billion 200 million dollars, from which more than half of the employees, I emphasize, are economically active enterprises, with almost three quarters of the debt due due last year. Why is it that in 2010 the government's intentions to reduce its debt from wages to 500-600 million dollars have not been realized? What measures have been taken to fully repay the debt owed to owners, and who are they, economically active enterprises? Let me answer that. Indeed, the issue of paying off wages remains one of the most current social problems in our society. So at the beginning of its activities today, the government has defined that one of the priorities of its repayment is, in 2008-2009 and January-February 20010, it has increased and its critical amount has reached 1 billion 737 million dollars. From the first days of its activities, that is, since March 1, 2010, today’s government has managed to take control of this situation and to gain the momentum of reducing debt from wages in Ukraine, including in economically active enterprises. The stabilization of the situation in the matter of timely pay has been achieved through measures that are constantly being taken by the government. In particular, between 1 March 2010 and 1 April 2011, the salary debt was reduced from 1 billion 737 million dollars to 1 billion 216 million dollars. So today's government has ensured a reduction in debt from wages by 522 million dollars or 30 percent of what we got at the time of the government's appointment. Overall, in Ukraine, the government's debt reduction task has not been carried out in connection with the difficult situation of paying off debts on the part of banks. On April 1, 2011, 533 million dollars were owed to the listed enterprises, accounting for 43.9 percent of the total debt in Ukraine. With the aim of continuing to pay off the arrears of the monetary sector, a project has been developed by the Cabinet of Ministers to approve a plan of urgent measures to pay off the arrears of the salary for 2011. The project provides a clear mandate for central and local executive authorities to ensure that in 2011 the employees of economically and inactive enterprises in the executive branch and in the region concerned are paid off, by 11 per cent each month against the beginning of the month. The project will be discussed at a government meeting in the near future. Question from the faction of the People's Party: "The Social Insurance Fund for Industrial Accidents allowed marked non-payments to persons who lost their health at work as a result of accidents. What are the government used to settle this issue?" Let me answer that. Indeed, it is. This was because the previous government had decided not to pay contributions to the social insurance fund to state-owned enterprises. As a result, the fund did not have funds for social benefits. As a result, government coal companies did not count for nearly nine months, i.e. from July 2009 to April 1, 2010, insurance contributions to the fund that destabilized its financial system. According to the Fund, as at 01.01, the current year’s mortgage on insurance contributions was 670 million dollars for state-owned coal companies. Under these circumstances, the Fund’s budget for 2009 was balanced and a budget for 2010 was adopted with a fund deficit of 602 million 800,000 dollars. The non-compliance with insurance costs resulted in credit default on insurance and social services in all regions totalling 476 million 600,000 dollars. As a result of the government’s efforts to use the funds of the fund, it was possible to eliminate the debt of payments to insured persons without any additional funds and the adoption of a deficit-free budget for the current year. For the time being, there is no debt owed to victims of an accident in production and occupational disease. Question No. 4 of the MP's Reform for the Future: "The draft Law on Measures for the Legislative Provision of Pension Reform, proposed by the Government, does not set a clear deadline for the imposition of a mandatory public pension system and a non-State pension scheme. [[by number 7455]] How and when is it planned to be implemented by the government?".. Let me answer that. It has to be noted that the government attaches great importance to the implementation of the stockpiling system, as this will allow for an increase in pensions due to the acquisition of investment income for citizens' contributions. The draft Law on Legislative Measures to Reform the Pension System provides that the accrual system of pension insurance will be implemented from the year in which the budget of the Pension Fund of Ukraine will be ineligible. The government has previously been considering the implementation of the second level since 1 January 2013. At the same time, Ukraine is developing a system of non-state pension insurance. Yes, according to the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act and the Non-State Pension Insurance Act, the Non-State Pension Insurance Scheme has been in place since 1 January 2004. By the end of 2010, the number of participants in nonstate pension funds was 569,000,200. In six years, the non-state pension system has been in operation for the accumulation of funds in its reserves for one billion 144 million dollars. The question that came from the MP's faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense": "After mass protests, teachers were promised an allowance of 20 percent to the salaries of all categories of education workers, but were asked. She was postponed until September 1, 2011, referring to the lack of funds. According to Deputy Prime Minister Andri Petrovich Kluev, in the change to the State Budget, these costs will still be foreseen, but the question arises first. For whose fault has the payment of the allowance been postponed for teachers? And secondly, will there also be allowances for other budgeted people with beggar wages: doctors, lower and middle-ranking officials, military, contractors? They need to take part in protests to get something out of the government. And what about the rapists and civil servants whose law prohibits them from taking part in such measures?" Let me tell you, this problem was not created by today’s government. The introduction of this supplement was made by the previous government for individual pedagogical workers. With a view to remedying this situation, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decided on 23 March 2011 to establish a 20 per cent salary allowance for all categories of teaching staff of preschools, general education schools, technical and educational institutions, higher education institutions, second level accreditations, and teaching staff of other institutions and institutions irrespective of their coverage: children's hospitals, boarding schools, sanatoriums, etc. It should also be noted that, unlike 2009, the government is constantly increasing the salaries of budget workers. Ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that, despite the fact that in the past year, today’s government came to exercise its powers only in March, and the salaries of budget workers have been recalculated since January 2010. This year and twice as decided by the government, the salaries of first - rate workers were increased. As of January 1, it was set at 613 and from April 1, 625. At present, possible ways are being worked out to bring the staff of the first EU tariff level closer to the minimum wage and to restore inter-skilled, inter-employment ratios in the salaries of budget workers. This issue is being addressed by an interministerial working group with representatives of ministries and budget unions. I would like to say that yesterday, for example, we held another meeting of this working group and worked out options that are being worked out today by the relevant ministries. It should also be noted that, for the first time in the General Agreement signed by employers and trade unions, there are mechanisms for increasing the wages of budget workers. Thus, in 2012 the consumer price index, the projected consumer price index for 2012, the projected increase in the revenue of the budget for 2012. The EU’s staff salary for the first tariff level is planned to increase by the highest percentage of the employees mentioned. The MP's faction of regions. the following task came forward. Unemployment increased considerably in 2008-2009. Has today’s government changed the situation? Let me answer that. The government, central and local executives, took measures to stabilize the economy in 2010. The government has undertaken these measures in a variety of ways, including through financial support from the national producer through public procurement, market expansion, including, and abroad, improvement of accounts, and so on. As a result of appropriate measures and the recovery of the national economy, there is a tendency to improve the situation in both national and regional labour markets. Thus, the number of employed people aged 15 to 70 increased from 20 million 200,000 in 2009 to 20 million 300,000 in 2010. The employment rate of the target age group increased from 57.7 percent to 58.5 percent. The number of unemployed people aged 15-17 years, as determined by the International Labour Organization methodology, has decreased from 1 million 960,000 in 2009 to 1 million 790,000 in the past year. The unemployment rate of the economically active population between the ages of 15 and 17 fell from 8.8 percent in 2009 to 8.1 percent in 2010. The number of citizens who are in a state of forced underemployment is declining. The number of people on forced unpaid leave from the employer’s initiative fell 2.3 times in January 2011 compared to the corresponding month of 2010, to 118,300. So 1.1 percent of the average number of employees. In January 2011, 520,000 people worked part - time. I'd like to say that last January there were a lot more of these people, 944.7 thousand of them. Question from the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." "How can you explain to people by following the instructions of the Head of State, why, apart from the increase in retirement age, they are expected to increase by 10 years of minimum retirement for retirement by age, the suspension of pension benefits for working retirees for overtime. Why are you copying a Russian model that didn't justify itself in Russia itself? Who of the workers will take their money to non-state institutions with a sign of questionable trusts, where the funds are free from inflation, where there are no guarantees and no additional preferences?" Let me answer that. The previous government has decided that a person with a minimum of less than 20 years of experience, women under 20 years of age, and men under 25 years of insurance, will receive a pension at the level of those who receive an old-age pension. So it's a situation where one man works for six years and another one for 25 years, but they get the same pension pay. Taking into account the stated need for differentiation of pension benefits and proposing to increase the minimum age of retirement. This will provide an opportunity to strengthen the insurance principles of the solidarity system and motivate the population to continue working and legalizing their income. This rule will extend only to pensions that will be assigned for the first time after the new law has become effective. Earlier pensions will be paid on existing scales without any restrictions. With regard to the model of the accrual system of pension insurance, we have the General State Pension Insurance Act, which provides for the introduction of the second level of the pension system. Unlike the voluntary contributions that a person can already make to a nonstate pension fund, mandatory contributions that will form part of a state pension will be paid to the stockpiling system in the future. The bill provides for the creation of a stockpiling pension fund, administration, that is, management of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, or state institution. Two years after the implementation of the second level, the participant will be able to select or add funds to the nonstate pension fund or to leave his funds in the stockpiling pension fund. Question of the Communist Party's deputy faction. "Why, in determining the size of the financial assistance to war veterans paid by May 9, 2011 continued the annual insolence and disgraceful practice of ignoring the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection and of victims of Nazi persecution for a reduction of 7-8 times a year, and the division of veterans who have the same status on the benefit of the subcategories, which results in a further reduction in payments? Let me answer that. I would like to point out that there is no reduction in the amount of this aid from year to year. In fact, the annual amount of aid is only increasing. With regard to the determination of the extent of aid, it should be noted that according to the Ukrainian laws on the status of war veterans, the guarantees of their social protection and the victims of Nazi persecution, war veterans are required to pay annually until May 5 once the amount of money in the multiple ratio to the minimum retirement age. War veterans believe that a minimum pension should be applied to those who have lost their jobs. Well, April 1st is 764 bracelets. However, the pension law stipulates that this minimum pension is applied exclusively to the calculation of pensions. [[Article 28]] This assistance shall be paid on a yearly basis, taking into account the financial capacity of the State budget. In 2010, which was designated as the year of the veterans of the Great Homeland War, the marked aid was paid in the increased size of the veterans of the Great Homeland War, members of the labour front, victims of Nazi persecution, and members of the families of the dead veterans of the Great Homeland War. On April 4, this year, the government passed its 341, according to which more than 20 percent of the annual lump sum paid by May 5 has been increased by the current year. This applies to veterans of the Afghan War, participants in other military conflicts. In general, the government plans to step up this aid year after year. Request from the MP's faction of the People's Party. "At the beginning of 2011, a social insurance fund was set up to pay off the temporary loss of employment to the enterprises for the period of the disease. What steps have been taken by the government and what is the state of affairs for today?" Let me answer that. With the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on the collection and payment of the sole contribution to the general government social insurance, the funding of the Social Insurance Fund has been changed with the temporary loss of employment of employee insurers to provide material security to employed workers. In accordance with this law, the fund compensates for its own expenses. In view of the observed and the fact that government coal companies, as mentioned earlier today, have not listed contributions to the fund for a certain period in 2009-2010, at the rate of 1 January of the current year, the debt of the fund to insurers amounted to 751 million 400,000 dollars. With a view to resolving this problem, an insurance policy has been developed to provide insured persons with material security at the expense of the Social Insurance Fund for temporary loss of employment approved by the Fund’s ruling and registered with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. At present, everything is being done for the timely and complete recalculation of insurance financing costs, for the provision of material security to insured persons according to claims. And this has produced some results. Between 1 January and 4 April of this year, the insurance fund was reduced by 320 million dollars. So on April 4, this year, it's 431 million 400,000, even though on January 1, it was 751 million 400,000. All measures are being taken to practically eliminate this debt during April/April of this year. According to the Executive Directorate of the Social Insurance Fund, as of April 4, this year, insurance companies have been funded to pay insured persons with hospital bills of $1 billion, 189 million, 400,000. Including the payment of pregnancy and childbirth assistance, amounting to 291 million dollars. The current costs to insurers are reimbursed in full. Question of the MP group of Reforms for the Future. “Is it possible to cover the deficit in the Pension Fund’s budget, not by increasing retirement age and reducing the level of pensions of the Ukrainian population, but by other sources? Costs derived from privatization, funds derived from the use of natural monopolies, oil, gas, ore, gold, precious stones, etc.? And if they're passed on to use the business, they're going to increase the share of the state's profits from the realisation of these natural monopolies." Let me answer that. In 2009, the budget deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund amounted to over 35 billion dollars. Accordingly, at the age of 11, it is expected to be only 17.8 billion rubles, or less than half. The government is taking steps to further stabilise the Pension Fund’s budget. In particular, in the first quarter of the current year, contributions to the Pension Fund increased and exceeded the equivalent revenue of the first quarter of last year by 5 billion 800 million dollars. The government budget provides timely funding to cover the planned deficit. The government is trying to improve the financial position of the Pension Fund by improving the administration of the single contribution to the Fund’s budget. Significant costs began to come to the Pension Fund from a simplified tax system. In February/January alone, 898 million dollars came in this year, more than 655.6 million dollars than in the corresponding period of last year. The coal industry is increasing. Thanks to the government's decision to cancel the moratorium on contributions, 726 million dollars were received from coal companies in January-February this year, more than 630 million dollars over the corresponding period of last year. One of the ways that the government is using is by taking steps to increase the labor fund in the field of economics by increasing the minimum wage, by supporting the individual sector budget. Of course, effective pension reform will be only integrated with other reforms, including the economic reforms currently under way by the government, tax and customs reforms, deregulation, building reform, which contribute to the increase of the payroll fund and thus to the coming of the Pension Fund. The issue of the legalization of wages and the labour market is important. Because it is in the shadow today that there is a very significant reserve for the replenishment of the U.K. Pension Fund. In order to ensure the legalization of wages in Minprac, three bills have been drafted aimed at the childization of wages. The main purpose of the bill is to strengthen the social protection of the working part of the population by increasing minimum State guarantees in payment of work, ensuring the legal pay and employment, increasing the income of the State budget, the Pension and other public social insurance funds. But that is not enough. The expenditure of the Ukrainian Pension Fund needs to be optimized. To this end, the government has prepared a draft Ukrainian Law on Legislative Measures to Reform the Pension System, which offers a more equitable redistribution of pension funds, primarily for those who receive special pensions. The ultimate goal of all of this is to increase pensions and, above all, to retirees who have retired 15-20 years ago and are no longer able to work and have no other income. The issue of the inclusion of the money from the monopolies mentioned in the questionnaire can be used by involving the state budget and targeting the deficit of the Pension Fund. This will be particularly important during the time of the stockpiling fund. Question of the faction of the Party of the Regions: "In 2009, the official salary of the employees of the first tariff level of the Single Tariff Network did not increase. How does today's government plan to increase this salary in the current year and plan to increase in 2012 to raise budget salaries?" Indeed, during 2009, the official salary of the staff of the first tariff class of the Single Tariff Network was frozen in our country. As of March 1, 2010, the current government had foreseen an increase in this salary in the 2010 budget. The salary was increased, and the salaries of the budgeters were listed from 1 January 2010, including the payment of January/April payments. Taking into account the budget's potential this year, there is an increase in official salaries for the staff of the first tariff level of the Single Tariff Network for the inflation index in 2011. Already twice this year, the government’s decision has raised the salaries of first - rate workers. At present, possible ways are being worked out to bring the salaries of staff members of the first tariff level closer to the minimum wage and to restore inter-skilled, inter-employment ratios in pay. As I have already reported, this is a matter that is being addressed by an interministerial working group of representatives of ministries and departments and the industry of the budget sector. The government will make sure that the 2012 draft budget provides for an increase in the official salary of the EU’s first tariff grade, as provided for by the general agreement between trade unions, government and employers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u3	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u4	Thank you. This will take into account the consumer price index in 2011. Estimated consumer price index for 2012. Estimated revenue of the consolidated budget for 2012. The EU’s staff salary for the first tariff level is planned to increase by the highest percentage of the indicated rates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we received answers to the written questions. If you would like to sign up, please, who would like to ask oral questions. Yeah, 30 minutes, one minute and two minutes to respond. Grigorovich Leela.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u7	Vladimir Karpuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich, first of all, your address. We can see that these "government hours" don't have any effect lately. In general, there are substitutes who are practically indisposed. We would really like to hear the ideologist of this pension reform here, because there is a lack of acceptance not only by society but also by the majority. There's a lot of questions about this ideology and there's a statement about it. That this bill on pension reform should be called off. There's criticism even from the President. So the question. What do you think, Vasil Ivanovich, is it not necessary for those ideologists who have worked on pension reform and who see that their posturing is not supported by society to change it for other ideologists? That's one question. And the second. You said about your salary debt. Because 60-70 percent in the field is the debt of active enterprises or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u9	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, as you know. There's an order from the president, which the government is working on today, and the Ministry of Social Policy is working accordingly. The task is to work even more closely with the public on the ideology of changes in the pension system, to properly draft the bill and, accordingly, to find out what is not being perceived, to discuss for a time in this room everything relating to the changes in pension insurance and accordingly to be decided not by the government, but by the honourable MP Corps. So as I come out of the situation, I understand that all we're proposing, including the Ministry of Social Policy, is that we're willing to listen to all the suggestions and, above all, constructive ones that will enable us to be more balanced and more objective about pension security changes, which, of course, should help our citizens get decent pension insurance. What's more, as you know, our proposals are not just about the present, they're about perspectives. That's why the conversation is about the relevance and the timing of the introduction and the implementation of the second level of the accumulation system. We believe that this will provide an opportunity for today’s young people, who are just beginning their work path, to understand in an appropriate way what awaits them, when they are approaching the end of their work and that their pension insurance will be directed. will be built on new measures and will be improved accordingly. As for the payroll debt, I've shown you that out of one billion 700 million that we got as a debt on April 1, last year, it's reduced by 400 million. There's certainly something to work on and we've prepared it accordingly as a ministry and it's now being worked out in the Ministry's office for improvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u10	Litwin Yuri, People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u11	People's Party, Kirovgrad. Dear Vasil Ivanovich, the only social contribution has been made since January 1st of this year. Can the government indicate the results of the introduction of this contribution? And also, of course, I'd also like to hear from you the answer in terms of what the government is trying to stabilize prices, but we see that they are increasing gradually. How are citizens’ incomes protected under such conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u12	First question. What some of the previous answers had, if they were concise, is that we have, for example, the income of the Pension Fund is greater than 800 million in the first quarter of the current year, last year for the same term, it was in order of 600. So we think this has given us an opportunity, including, and thanks to the introduction of a single social contribution, this has allowed us to work better, for us, for the people of the state who are raising these social costs. On the other hand, we believe that this has made it possible to work better and work for the owners, because instead of four checking and, accordingly, reports, accounts, and so forth, they are working only with the Pension Fund today. The positive changes in the share of income from other social insurance funds show that it was very convenient and timely last year at the initiative of the Government of the Supreme Council to adopt appropriate changes to legislation and we introduced the only social contribution. He would like to point out once again that he has given us the opportunity to work more closely to raise public funds for social insurance funds, that is, to go directly to people and, on the other hand, it has made it easier for the economy to cooperate with the public authorities. As far as protection is concerned, I would like to tell you that according to current legislation, today we have a situation that, if inflation exceeds 1 percent over a month, the mechanisms of indexation, the indices of social benefits that our citizens receive from the State Budget are starting to work accordingly. And that's why we're working on the situation today, and we think that the way we did it in 2010, using these tools, we're going to do it properly in 2012. Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u13	Uklov, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Paul’s Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u15	Andrew Pavlovsky's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u16	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Mr. Reporter, when the government is going to implement the decision of the Supreme Council, which, as a result of parliamentary hearings from the pension reform, has decided to send back a government draft for work and will implement the recommendations of the Supreme Council so that there are no more humane measures, such as an increase in the retirement age of 5 years, an increase in employment, restrictions on working pensioners. And the second question. When will the government finally fulfill Victor Yanukovic's most famous pre-election promise, that from January 1, 2011, the minimum pension will be 1,200 dollars and the average pension will be 2,000 dollars? Because what we have now is one and a half times less than we promised, and this has led you to power, so keep your promises.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. First of all, everything about pension changes. Once again, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the proposals that are constantly coming, including from the University of Minnesota, as well as from the government as a whole. We're willing to accept, and for that, we're posted on our websites, on our communications, on our round tables, on our conferences, on the fact that we're going to a territory where we're communicating with a variety of contingents and expertise, and, as it were, qualifications, we're willing to collect all the proposals that exist and work them out accordingly. So everything about the constructive proposals for pension reform is ready to be included and done accordingly. With regard to their introduction to the bill, this is not a problem. Unfortunately, we can see that sometimes when we face an unacceptable situation, it's a lot. Not so often, we face up to appropriate suggestions that needed professional conversation. That is why we are also ready within the appropriate committees of the Supreme Council, generally within the Supreme Council, to make and listen to all the proposals within the framework of the social debate. We're willing to discuss them in a professional way with both the honourable deputies and the experts involved and the people who are just, as it were, involved. But the only request is we're ready if we get offers. Those suggestions that we get, we're working directly, and we're ready to talk about them today. Next. What you said about promises to raise wages. The language went on, and if we read carefully, including when it was said and how it happened, it was said that this is a task and that the government is working on it accordingly today. I would like to stress again last year, regardless of what, even.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u18	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u19	In 2009, there were no changes in the size of social benefits, including the only tariff charge for workers. We did it in 2010. And the real increase in wages, even in terms of inflation, is more than 17 percent in 2010. What's more, this year, the indexation goes at least to the level of inflation. And what I've told you is that we have a working group that includes not only representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, but also trade unions that discuss and work out proposals for further wage increases. And I'm sure we'll understand, we'll find options, and we'll solve both in 2010 and in 2011 the problem of actually increasing wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u20	Gnutkevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Vladimir Filenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u22	Vladimir Philenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. Vasil Ivanovich, you can't help but know that Julia Timoshenko is now being accused of paying her pension in a crisis year. You're talking with the mouths of all government officials that you've overcome the crisis, you're growing at an unprecedented rate. But I didn't hear a clear answer from you. Why don't you do the Pay for Work Act and actually rob the employees of the budget institutions without paying the teachers of the higher category 710 bracelets per month, the surgeons of the higher category 811 bracelets per month. You tell me what you're going to do. But Azarov says that the people will be relieved, not today, but 10 years later. Why do you not obey the law today? And the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. Dear Volodymyr Pilipovich. I'm sure you're absolutely right that I'm not supposed to give you some grades here, but the facts show that. In 2009, our predecessors, unfortunately, never raised the first level of the budget grid. That's a fact. On the other hand, despite the fact that our government came and we were only in the second half of March, we raised the first level of the Social Standards Act for budget workers from January 1, 2010, and did so five times during the year. Next. We, despite all the inflationary processes -- and this is the conclusion of the experts, not just the Department of Social Policy specialists -- raised a real wage of 17 percent last year. This is because 10 percent of us have eaten inflation. But we've added people. In 2011, we made increases in salaries, social benefits, including wages to our budgeters, at least at the level of inflation. What's more, I've already told you, we've met twice, worked twice, and now experts are working on the financial component. We are working together with the unions to do an increase that is not included in this budget. But I think that as the task set over the next two weeks, we're going to work on it and we're going to come up with a proposal to raise the size of the first tariff charge even more. The only thing I can finally agree with you directly is that there's definitely a lot of work to be done. And certainly with what we do today, we do not resolve all matters related to the payment of our respectable teachers and doctors. But that's where we started moving. And I think we're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u24	Yes, Fomin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u25	Alexander Fomin. I give the word to Yuri Prokopchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u26	Yuri Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u27	Yuri Prokopchuk, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Against the background of a loud statement about improving life today, the Yanukovich government plans to abolish the status of areas affected by the Chernobyl accident in a number of areas in the northern regions. This is especially true not only for the adult population but also for the children. Did you know that more than 70,000 children don't feed in Ravenna, Volinsky today, just because a tender was illegally won by some company called Avika. It is well - known for its scandals in Ukraine’s Armed Forces. And what will be the concrete action on your part, on the part of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the prosecution's office to reinvigorate the diet of children, and to bring corrupt people to criminal responsibility. Just give a specific answer to the unscrupulous. Or have they started saving children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, I'd like to say that, in fact, life, it's always much more complicated than anyone would want it to be, and everything about feeding children is what we do. There are some problems, but according to the legislation in force, each one does his own thing. And that's why the Ministry of Social Policy, and I would like to tell you that today, when we're coming here, we've been communicating, we've done the right thing, and we're working now to make sure that the problems that have arisen, and unfortunately we haven't had 11 flights, we haven't had a tender, we've done everything we can to feed our children. So today there is a problem, there are some problems, they are working on it. I think that the experts from other ministries and authorities will help us to put order in this option. We work with local authorities. As for the conversation about the possible change in status, the difference in zones and all that sort of thing, I'd like to say that we are all of you, and who are present in this room, and who are not going to this room, who is working in the executive branch, who is simply living in our state, we have the opportunity, and it's probably right, not only to express our thoughts, but also to discuss and offer something. Of course, I'm stressing once again the proposals for possible changes in one or the other status in a particular population, these conversations, if I'm not mistaken, probably for 15 years at least. Therefore, this subject needs to be addressed. Our experts are working on this topic. Although I would like to tell you that it is definitely necessary to do so in a complex. Because one of the cosmopolitans on this subject cannot say the final decision. Because this requires both experts, scientists, and experts from the Ministry of Health, and experts from the Ministry of Health. So this is a complex problem. For today, I'd like to tell you one thing. There was no draft document on this subject in the ministry. We think we should do it first.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u29	Please, instead of the Blackbeard Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u30	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Dear colleagues! Dear Vasil Ivanovich! The pension reform has been in fact in all the developed countries of the world over the past ten years. And they have some experience. And these positive jobs that they have can be transferred to our pension reform. In view of that, our question. First. Is the government planning to introduce corporate and private pension programs for individual categories of workers, such as the German model of the pension system? I will remind you that such programs are compulsory in the EU. And the second question. Worldwide, there is a practice of reinvesting funds that are accumulated through state or nonstate stockpiling funds. The language goes whether we want to implement it in Ukraine in accordance with our pension reform. To broaden this question and your understanding, I will make an example of this. In 2007-2009, Ukraine took a road-building loan of more than one and a half billion dollars. By servicing this loan, he gives interest and passes it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u31	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. By your permission, consistently before they were stressed. Well, first of all, the current legislation and practice of 2006-2004 shows that it is possible to introduce corporate pension schemes, including in the budgetary sphere. But the only thing that can be said today is that, due to the lack of funds, local executives or local self - government will rightly say so, because budgets approve the appropriate local councils, they will be able, by planning these things, to legally introduce such corporate pension programs and they will be able to do so accordingly. The only thing that probably, given the fact that there are some signs of a lack of financial security today, is that local councils are moving away from this practice. As for the Ministry of Justice as the executive body, the one that works in this direction, we believe that the faster we go back to this practice, and we ask our distinguished representatives of local self-government to renew these corporate pension programs. Because this is actually a real addition to the pension provision of our respected budget workers. Next. Everything about the possibility of investing and involving long-term pension funds, including government programs, I fully agree with you. And world practice shows that the best funds that are investment for the domestic economy around the world are the cost of the accumulation of pension funds. And accordingly, that's why it's being proposed in those changes to the retirement system so that we can enter the second accumulation level on the one hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u33	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u34	In order to enable citizens to obtain additional pensions and to obtain normal, real investment costs for the domestic economy. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u35	Instead of Stoyko the weaver, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u36	No, no, there is. Thank you. Dear Vassil Ivanovich, you are indeed in charge of a practical and actually very sensitive social sphere, the Ministry. Unlike you, I still don't agree that people's lives have gotten better today. On the contrary, last year we saw a lot of inflation, price increases virtually everything, starting with food, ending with, let's say, energy. And that's why it really hurts to realize that people today don't get the money they're supposed to get when they're inflationing huge. Unfortunately, statistics work in manual mode. But I have another question. Say, please, what are the reforms, let's say, the direction of reforms? Twenty-one, don't say what Viktor Fedorovich said yesterday, because it was a joke, as if some schulker was playing cards with the people. I don't know who put it up. But how many.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. By your permission, I will answer in part the one to whom I am required to answer according to my office. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that I don't want to be seen in this room today as being, as it were, a bold optimist. No, I'm trying to prove to you what the government is doing in 2010, what it's doing in 2011, and what the prospects for 2012 are in the part that we're talking about today. And so I would like to point out that, I think, in fact, last year, we were able to raise a real salary by 17 percent. We've made an effective delivery mechanism and very liberal housing subsidies. We have a situation today that, despite everything that's going on in the world that's actually reducing wages and pensions, we're going to continue to increase them to at least an inflation rate, or more. And that is why everything that is being done today is the main purpose of my meeting with you to inform you, honourable deputies, what is being done, what is understood, and where we are going. What are we going to do in 2011 as the Ministry of Social Policy in our own way, as a block? We think that the main thing is, it's definitely a reform of the social protection system, so that people get help depending on their material assets, because unfortunately, we have large categories of citizens who also get help because they need it, and those who only get it by status. Although I would like to point out that the changes in the social security of war veterans, the Chernobylites, the participants in other military conflicts, the people with special merit before the Motherland, we do not see the possibility and need to change. Everything else must be spent by the state, depending on the cost of life.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u38	Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u39	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Montenegro. Dear Vassil Ivanovich! First question. At the direction of the International Monetary Fund, the government is pursuing antinational pension reform. A 5 - year increase in the retirement age of women will certainly result in a sharp rise in unemployment among both women and, above all, among young people. This will increase labour migration abroad and worsen the already complex demographic situation. Is it worth an additional 1-2 billion dollars to the Pension Fund for such negative consequences? The second question. Since April 1, children’s budget in schools in the northern regions of Chernigiv and Suma region have been cut short. It's the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. You've talked a lot about how there was a question in the Plains region, what the issue is in government, but it doesn't work -- children are hungry. Give an answer when it stops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, everything about the rise and, in general, the change in retirement age. I would. Will this lead to an increase in unemployment or not? I'd like to give you just one digit. We've got 95 people working for us today. We have 95 pensioners working in the state. If we leave this trend, by 2025 we have one worker to support one pensioner. Clearly, it is not necessary to be a great expert to say that it is economically impossible. We have to move towards making sure that the people who get the pension are the people who are no longer able to work directly and that the pension is the only source of their existence. Everything you said about feeding the Chernobyl children, I'd like to prove it to you again, and I would like to invite you, if it's your good will, to come here today, we've gathered representatives of the Ministry, representatives of the government, and now they're dealing with the problems that you said they came up with. I think we've got ourselves an assignment to solve this. I emphasize again, I think today, at the very least, we're going to solve these problems tomorrow. And we're going to erase this problem. If there's a good will in the honourable deputies, there's no denying it, please, in all the facts at all, on any given subject, let's get the information straight. Because I'd like to say, as an example, last year there was a lot of sense that they said there were lines in the formulation of subsidies. Sadly, when we found out, it was often more emotional than the truth of life. Because today a person can only get a grant....and if he works, he can even send out his application by letter. So on any subject, and I'm very grateful that you're sharpening.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u41	Efraem’s Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u42	Please give the floor to my colleague, Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u43	Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u44	Dear Vassili Ivanovich, well, first of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the multi-tous group of associates who are today in the fight against poverty and ask you what you have done as Minister. Are you trying to raise their miserable wages? The second thing you, as a minister, see the Parliament needed to do to remove the annoying nonsense that exists today: a grandmother who, thanks to your coworker, receives a 3.70 loaf of bread, if, God forbid, it's prescribed by one of the relatives, it's already worth 18 bracelets. The same applies to subsidies. And the last question, without any hesitation: when was the last time you were in the region? I think we're misusing Kabmin's capabilities when we're charging the bed with defence ministers, ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. By your permission. First of all, everything about our encouragement. My colleagues, social workers. Well, first of all, I thank you, because not so often do our people hear words of gratitude, and there, in fact, women, men who work directly with our disabled, pensioners, are people who get a small salary. And they bump into people who are in pain. And that's normal, and thank you again. Everything that the Ministry does, we try to do everything that we can, starting with, including through the Ministry of Finance, getting funding for material stimulus through bonuses, moral encouragement, well, we try to thank people as often as possible, because, of course, what a person has earned, but sometimes it is important for a person to hear good words at his address. All that matters, and in what we believe, would be a pooling of our efforts to improve the lives of our citizens between the executive authorities and the parliament, is, of course, in the social sphere, it is as soon as possible to adopt the legislation, according to which people will receive the money, and, more precisely, the state aid, depending on where they are. We are very grateful that last year there have been several fundamental decisions that have enabled us to deal with a very large number of problems that concern our citizens: we have made a real wage increase, we have made a real pension increase, we have really helped and increased family support, you have adopted very important laws to increase child support. So today, if we look at the positive, we're definitely still working and working. But what's done is it's possible to say that we have some achievements.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u46	Yes, dear colleagues, let us thank Vasil Ivanovich for the answers to our questions. Have a seat, please. There are those who want, I know what they are, but thank you. Sasha's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u47	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. In fact, I wanted to point out first the positive trend towards organizing an hour of questions to the government. And to say that the government has begun to meet the 30 percent requirement of the law of presence. on the rule of law on the presence of the Cabinet of Ministers in the Supreme Council in its entirety. However, until the end of this "hour" there is only one Deputy Prime Minister Tikhov. The government has not endured the test of time, more faithfully, with that one hour. That's the first one. Next. In accordance with the law, Adam Ivanovich, I address you. People’s deputies have the right under the law to ask questions to members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers today. He might still be a member. That is why we view this as disrespect for the Supreme Council, for the national MPs, and for our electorate. And we demand that we abide by the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u48	Your demands are fair. Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u49	Adam Ivanovich, I wouldn't make such quick conclusions that those words are fair. Let's see what's going on in the hall. In fact, the Government has arrived today, with the exception of those on mission who are either engaged in some official, urgent matter. At the same time, members of the Government and those who speak from the rostrum speak to empty chairs in the hall. At the request of those who invite the Government here, they do not come to the session hall at all. We must therefore consider what we have in the Rules and adjust it to the benefit of the State and not to the benefit of the individual people who satisfy their ambitions here, but who are not really interested in what is happening in the Hall and what the Government is saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! You will work in the government and you will answer. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, let's really note what colleague Sass has said that there is a good, serious, good tendency that "in hours of government questions" the government is beginning to be present. That's the first one. The other one. That there's no part of them now, we're to blame, because right now, there's a group of MPs working with ministers and everyone's solving the problems of the electorate of their district. So it's also a positive trend, and I think they're doing the right thing. [[B in m in s a l in]] You have no districts, but you have a responsibility to the electorate, to the people of Ukraine who have delegated you here. Let's move on to just as interesting -- the questions of the national MPs. The following questions came: Valerija Bevez to the President of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian electoral legislation by the municipal election commission of the city of Mogilov-Podilski Vinnitsky region during the organization and holding of the subsequent elections of the Mogilov-Podilski city head on October 31, 2010, which led to the election of the city head of the listed citizen of the existing state. This is a request to the President of Ukraine, so I'm voting to support the request. [[11:12:09]] For-44 Vladimir Yavorowski to the President of Ukraine for not reacting to the debt owed by the Black Sea fleet to the city of Sevastopol, which accounts for more than twenty million dollars, and for Russia's untimely payment of compensation for the presence of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine, which is a gross breach of interstate agreements on the part of Russia. I'm betting on support for the request. [[11:12:52]] For-39 Not supported. Valery Bondick to the Head of the Supreme Council regarding the gross violation of the constitutional guarantees of the Ukrainian national deputy and the insolent failure to execute a judicial decision by officials of the Supreme Council. Sergija Vlasenka to the Head of the Audit Chamber on the violation of the requirements of article 15, part 3, of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the failure of the Chamber of Auditors and the non-planned review on the legality of directing the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine to the funds of the State Budget of Ukraine for the calculation with the company AEKEN GAMP STRAUSS HAUSS HAUER AND FELD EL PI. Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Prime Minister for the provision of official information on the level of indebtedness of the Social Insurance Fund for the temporary loss of employment to employers on payment of hospital payments, the reasons for its formation, terms and ways of paying it to ensure proper implementation of policies in the fields of employment, social protection, health care and compliance with the laws and regulations of the Constitution of Ukraine. Vladimir Matvieva, I'm sorry, Valentina Matvieva to the Prime Minister for the lack of a proper response by the authorities to repeated appeals by residents of the former military towns of Ozerne, Žitomir district and Honcharovsk, Chernigiv region regarding the solution of acute socio-economic problems. Valeria Beváz to the Prime Minister regarding the use of urgent measures aimed at the preservation of the Kirnasov sugar plant of the Tulchin district of Winnitsk. Andrija Pavlovski to the Prime Minister for the cessation of illegal refusals in the calculation of pensions to retired workers at the average salary rate of the calendar year preceding the year of retirement. Valeria Calchenk to the Prime Minister for providing information on the construction and operation of the State Enterprise "Direction of the Crimson Mining and Enriching Combination of oxidized ores". Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister for information on the construction and operation of the Novocostinian uranium ore plant in Kirovograd. Vassil Wooden to the Prime Minister for the non-reorganization of the Kopicinsky Municipal District Hospital, Horostkovska and Grimilovska Municipal Hospitals in the Husatin district, which is designed to shorten medical personnel and lead to a deterioration in the quality of health care for the population. Victor Olijnik to the Prime Minister on the use of measures to prevent the closure of the Smedina and Crimea Regional Hospitals of the Staroviživ district of Volinsk. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Social Affairs, Ministry of Health, Attorney-General for the Protection of the Rights of the Widow of the First Group Disabled, Participant for the Elimination of the Consequences of the Accident in CHAES, Caterina Chernyavské for the Use of the Chargé d'études provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster. Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister for the State Budget of Ukraine, the cost of finishing repairs at Suma School of Public Education No.4. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister for the unprecedented reorganization and liquidation of schools in the village of Petrova and the village of Lake Kirovograd, which are held in spite of protests by parents, students, the public and educational groups, which will ultimately lead to a decrease in the intellectual potential of Ukrainian youth. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister for the illegal humiliation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Wages of all employees whose work is paid on the basis of the Single Tariff Network, the need to bring legal acts in line with the Ukrainian Act on Paying for Work, namely the establishment of a tariff rate of the first tariff rate in excess of the minimum wage. Viacheslav Koval to the Prime Minister for the non-closure of the only boarding school in Sevastopol in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the Ukrainian language of education. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister for the Inadmissibility of the Elimination of the Great Special School of Public Education at the Watchtower District of Chernobyl, where children with mental and physical disabilities are taught. Edouard Prutnik to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Finance, the State Road Service, the Montenegrin District State Administration regarding the conversion of citizens of the Lowland Region of Chernigiv to the need to carry out the ongoing repair of the roads of general use of local value and roads in the communal property of the territorial communities of the region, as well as the allocation for this additional subsidy from the State Budget. Eugene Marmazov to the Prime Minister for the laundering of the stock exchange costs of the ArselorMittal Curve Rig, due to the non-reimbursement of VAT and the overpayment of income tax, as well as the destabilization of the business by the uncontrolled increase in the number of checks of the various State control bodies. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Vinnick district government administration for the non-admission of the creation of the Verwolf Memorial Museum complex in Winkin, aimed at promoting Fascism and Fascist symbols. Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister regarding the provision of information to the Supreme Council in September 2011 on the creation of new jobs in the region. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister about the provision of information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in September 2011 on the extent to which investments are being made in the region of Ukraine. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister in an effort by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to disqualify the use of the teaching corps of the South Ukrainian National Teachers' University of Ushinsky. Constantine Bondareva to the Prime Minister, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Chief of State Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine on the illegal presence of Anatolia Petrenko in the post of Head of the State Tax Administration in the Kyiv region, the overcoming and acquisition of authority in the authorities of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine and the commission of financial losses to the State. Constantine Bondarev to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Chief Executive of the Pension Fund of Ukraine for the immediate elimination of the grave violation of the constitutional rights of citizens of Ukraine in respect of the non-payment of significant amounts of pensions to children of war and the use of urgent measures to restore the rights of pensioners violated. Mr. Derkach to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of the Gas boiler of the Fifth World Education School No. 1 of the Dnipropetrov region. Mikoli Komara to Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the payment of retirement at the age of benefits for working with harmful working conditions for residents of Makoshino, Mensky district, Chernigiv district. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Prime Minister for the Exceeding of Service Obligations by the leadership of the Shisyak District Education Department, which is in place in spite of the requirements of current legislation, the contractual system of the employment contract to the directors of the general educational institutions. Alexander Crnvolenko to the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Infrastructure, the Attorney-General, the head of the Kyiv City Department for the immediate cessation of attempts by some of Kyiv's owners to dispossess the municipal debt that arose more than ten years ago, which is nothing more than a mere harassment that they are engaged in for silent consent and perhaps the support of the country's current government. Mr. Greenewecki's Sergey to the Prime Minister for Social Protection of Citizens who participated in Nuclear Trials. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister for State control of the expenditure included in municipal tariffs and for municipal companies to fulfil obligations to establish heat meters for citizens. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister on the effectiveness of State control over child nutrition. Helen Bondarenko to the Prime Minister for the elimination of discrimination on the grounds of sex when entering the higher educational institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Sergia Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for medical equipment at the Central Central District Hospital in Chernigiv Region. Sergei Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for funding in 2011 the completion of the construction of an underwater pipeline to the village of Shabalin, the region of Coropa, Chernigiv. Jurija Gnatkević to the Prime Minister for the protection of the interests of citizens affected by the crisis in Ukraine's currency market. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister, Minister of Emergency Situations, Prosecutor-General, Head of the Lviv District State Administration for the Verification of the Disbursement of State Funds Dedicated to the Reconstruction of the Road Bridge, located on the street of UN-OPA Soldiers in Borislav, Lviv Region, destroyed by a natural disaster in July 2008, the use of immediate measures to allocate funds from the Reserve Fund of the State Budget for 2011 for its reconstruction, to prevent the destruction of the second, at present the only bridge that connects two parts of the city and is a transport link to a large part of the forces of the Drogbitsky and Turkovsky regions of the region of Lviv. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, Minister of Culture, Head of the Kirovograd Regional Public Administration for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the building of the Kirovograd Academy of Music and Dramatic Theatre by Mark Kropivnitsky. [[Karpuka, Kirilenka, and others. Total 17 deputies]] Jurya Litvina to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of a public education school in the village of Sokol Terebovlán district of Ternopil district. Jurya Litvina to the Prime Minister regarding the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the water supply in the city of the Ternopil District Assembly. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Head of the Pension Fund’s Government, on the immediate application of measures to respond to the fact that the authorities of the State have granted pensions to war veterans and military officials in retirement, on the gross violation of the constitutional rights of the persons concerned to social protection, as expressed in the baseless refusal to recalculate and indemnify the due amounts of pensions to the persons designated. Eugene Dobrjak and Sergey Pashinsky to the Prime Minister for amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 on the subsidy to the special fund of the State budget for the repair of the streets of the municipality of Malina Žitomir district. Eugene Dobrjak and Sergey Pashinsky to the Prime Minister to amend the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 on the subsidy to the special fund of the State budget for the repair of the streets of the municipal property of the city of Radomisl of Žitomirsk. Mikoli Petruk and Eugene Dobrjak to the Prime Minister for amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 on a subsidy from the State Budget for the acquisition of diagnostic and resuscitation equipment for the establishment of the social sphere of municipal property of the maternity department of the Malin territorial and medical union of the Žitomir region. Mikoli Petruk and Eugene Dobrjak to the Prime Minister for amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 on State Budget Subsidy for Capital Repair of Municipal Property Infrastructure of the Malinian Territorial Medical Union of the Žitomir Region and on Equipment Acquisition. Dmitry Schlemck to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the illegal demands of the tax police and the creation of conditions for bribes in the Lenin district of Donetsk. Tom's finished. Tom the other one. Valery Pisarenko to the Minister of Health, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources for the verification of waste poisoning from the production of the Agroars Complex of adjacent land, water and air, as well as violations of health and sanitation standards. [["Gavril Chickens" trade mark]] Vladimir Ariev to the Minister of Agrarian Politics and Food on dissatisfaction with the Ministry's response to the MP's request to provide information on the Greek Krupa company from the People's Republic of China to Ukraine and the criteria under which the company was identified, as well as the purchase price of the product. Gregory Omelchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs on bringing to justice the responsibilities of internal affairs officials involved in pressure on journalists of the specialized publication Fito and other illegal activities, as well as ensuring the physical integrity of journalists and publishing staff in relation to claims of threats to their lives and health. Eugen Marmazov to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources for Destabilizing the Work of the Open Shareholder Association ArselorMittal Curve Rig as a result of the arrival of thirty-seven environmental inspectors at the same time, representing forty-nine percent of the total central apparatus of the State Environmental Inspectorate. Eugene Kzarow to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for the gross violation of the current legislation of Ukraine regarding the minor and possible tragedy in the meeting places of young people. Igor Savchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for the examination of the violations of Ukrainian legislation in the wake of Truhanów Island in Kiev. Caterina Vaschuk to Minister of Finance, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food, Head of the State Tax Service to Accelerate Payments to Enterprises of the Agro-industry Complex of Volin Region for Interest Compensation at the 2010 loan rate of 4.1 million dollars. I'm joining, too, Catherine Timofievna. Mikoli Shershun to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food, Head of the State Agency of the Ukrainian Reserve for Dissatisfaction with the Ministry of Agrarian Policy's response to the parliamentary request regarding the need to support the development of the State Enterprise "Radivil Group of Agricultural Products" of the Plain Region. Oksana Bilozer to the Minister of Justice, Attorney General, on the application of measures to protect the rights of the Credit Association of Ukraine. Alexander Kemenyash to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Attorney General, on the need for urgent assistance in returning to his homeland to fraudulent Ukrainian citizens working on construction works in Baghdad, Iraq. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Head of the Court of Appeal on the payment of pensions, ensuring the rights of Ukrainian citizens to a fair recalculation of pensions and ensuring that Ukrainian citizens have access to information on the judicial cases that concern them. Alexander Schepeleva to the Ministry of Health on the urgent use of measures to prevent the recurrence of mass food poisoning of children as a result of the consumption of children’s dairy products. Alexia Plotnikov to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Policy, the Pension Fund, on the need to consider and take steps to address the appeal of a former medical professional named Valentina Alexandrov, who worked for a long time in Kiev’s antituberculosis institutions, to settle the issue of counting medical internships and to check the legal grounds for correcting the employment book when it was released in connection with retirement from retirement in February of the current year. Sergey Vlasenka to the Minister of Finance on the non-admission of laws on the status of a national deputy by officials of the Ministry of Finance in part of the failure to respond to a parliamentary request and on the provision of the full text of the results of the review of the use of budgetary funds carried out by the legal companies Trout Kecheris Pi eL CI and Aken Gump Strauss Hower and Field EL PI, Kroll, of which part is closed. Mikoli Tomenka and Yuri Gnatkiewicz to the Head of the State Fisheries Agency for the insolent violation of the rules of fishing during the rest of the day in some waters of Kiev. Paul Moachana and John Hare are headed by the Security Service to investigate the kidnapping of a Palestinian citizen in Ukraine, Diara Abusis, and the illegal crossing of Ukraine’s state border. Vladimir Danilenko to the Director of the State Employment Centre, executive director of the National Social Insurance Fund of Ukraine, in case of unemployment in connection with the violation of the rights and legitimate interests of a citizen named Vladimir Sikorsky, by not giving him the opportunity to worry about retirement and improper consideration of a parliamentary appeal to resolve the situation. Valery Pisarenko to the Attorney General, head of the State Tax Service, for the conduct of unlawful acts by the Agrarians Complex, which violate the labour rights of citizens and for the avoidance of tax. [["Gavril Chickens" trade mark]] Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Attorney-General on the verification of compliance with the laws and regulations of the Constitution of Ukraine and on the use of measures by the Attorney-General to avoid violations of the social rights of budget workers and to stop the abuse of office by the heads of state institutions in the area of Žitomir. Orestes Muz to the Attorney General, Head of the State Tax Service, Head of the Security Service, Head of the Ternopil District Administration on the activities of the Society's Supervisory Board with limited responsibility, Peter Hadz, who poses a threat to the food security of the Ternopil area, aimed at destroying the agricultural sector, includes the abuse of the Agrarian Fund's grains and violations of land legislation. Valentina Matvieva to the Attorney General for the inappropriate response of the local authorities to the appeal of the resident of the town of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki Kyiv district of Oksana Shevchenko. Valery Baranov to the Attorney General for delay in taking decisions to bring criminal responsibility to former officials of the Bergian City Council. Victor Matchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the requirements of article 97 of the Criminal Procedure Code concerning the duty of the prosecutor on application or reporting of crime to take one of the decisions provided for in this article. Victor Taran to the Attorney General to respond to the seizure of the village of Staroń, in the area of Ivano-Frankiv. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Attorney General on the allegations of abuse on the pages of the newspaper Za Černigów regarding the head of the state health doctor of the Montenegrin district of Mikoli Donz. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Attorney General for illegal possession of the Society's leadership, with limited responsibility for "Work Table" in the Men's District of the Chernigian area of property rations for members of the former collective agricultural enterprise "Work". Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General about the criminal offence and the criminal responsibility of the Head of the Supreme Council and the former Head of the Security Service as accomplices to the crime committed against journalist George Gongadze, which led to his murder under burdensome circumstances. Zinovia Shkutjak to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the non-completion of funds to investors through the All-Ukrainian People's Credit Society. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney General on the legality of radio broadcasting, where the Melody Radio Company spoke. Mikoli Shershun to the Attorney General for the failure to execute court decisions on the land ownership of Láshuk in the village of Ptica Dubenski district of Ravensk. Oleg Nachoshi to the Attorney General regarding the unfair and unbiased investigation of the situation of the illegal alienation of oil and corporate rights belonging to a foreign investor. Alexander Kemenyash to the Attorney General’s Office for the Procurator - General for the Procurator - General for the Procurator - General for the Procurator - General for the Procurator - General for the Procurator - General for the Longevity of the Crime of Debtors in relation to the Kohan family in the village of Kolčino Mučakov district of Zakarpatsk. Paul Silent to the Attorney General on the anticonstitutional decision of the Zaporozhye District Council on the use of Russian in the work of local authorities. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney-General on the provision of unreliable information by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Mikolaiiv region for a parliamentary appeal in violation of the Ukrainian Act on the Prohibition of Game Business in Ukraine in the city of Mikolayev. Sergei Gordijenko to the Attorney General, head of the Poltava District State Administration for the protection of land and property rights of residents of the villages of Burezovka and Korniyevka of the Grebinkov district of Poltava. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on violations by the Ministry of Education and Science, youth and sports of Ukraine of the current legislation on the provision of free education in general educational institutions and the enforcement of textbooks for the conduct of summary monitoring work in the 5-8 classes of the general educational institutions in 2010-2011 of the academic year. [[I'm scared, Donya and the others. Total 4 deputies]] Valery Baranov to the head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration on the inadequacy of transferring the entire property complex of the State Municipal Enterprise "Berdian Misqueductor" to the property of the territorial community of the Zaporozhye Region. Zinovia Shkutzak to the head of the Donetsk district administration, prosecutor of the Donetsk district, on the pressure on the instructors of the Macyivsk metallurgical technology by the administration. Igor Alekseieva to the Head of Hmeljna District State Administration to assess the questionable decisions of the Hmeljna District Council, which led to the denial of the right to travel free of charge to the extended category of citizens, as well as the verification of the legality of the decision and consideration of the right to travel free of charge in the city of Hmielnické and Hmělnice district to pensioners, veterans, workers with disabilities and children of war. A group of national deputies to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the groundless blocking of the city by the city of Kyiv Maidan Independence. [[Grigorovich, Skutka and others. Total 6 deputies]] Alexander Schepelev to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration to address the problem of overcrowding of children’s preschool facilities in Kiev. Vladimir Pilpenka to the prosecutor of the Lviv district for the examination of violations of the rights of veterans, war veterans, disabled persons and pensioners by officials of the Lviv Railway District Administration. Jury Odarchenka to the Herson City Head to provide information on the status of the land area where the Herson Chess School is located. Jury Odarchenka to the Herson City Head for the reasons for ignoring the lawyers of the Herson City Council of Judicial Decisions. These are the questions that have come at the moment. We have a request from the national deputy Yavorowski for dissatisfaction with the answer to the parliamentary request. Please, 3 minutes, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u51	Good morning, Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! According to our Rules, as a national MP, I have the right to take these three minutes to analyze the answers that I wanted to receive as a national MP. Let me remind you, I wanted to know the number. It's a parliament, no one has even deprived it of a version of this old-new constitution of control functions. Because of this, I wanted to know the amount that the government spent on this so - called audit, how much money was spent on it. An audience in the field of activity, as Azarov would say, my wife, not my ass. Because of this, three times, three times, I got the answers that told me about everything in the world, but it wasn't called a specific number. And finally, I can greet myself with a little quiet victory -- I managed to squeeze this number. There she is. And now I can do it. By the way, some of the national MPs have been asking this question today, I think you're not going to be interested in it anymore. But I'll tell you how much is spent? Spent $2 million,800,000 in the United States. I repeat, $2 million, 800,000. And what did this company that employs 8 people catch? And one of them said about this company that the investigation was carried out under the direction of a new government against a previous government. It's very difficult to say that this is a full investigation, not a witch hunt. I mean, it was a hired firm, it was paid for, by the way, I have answers about what was completely calculated with it, it's not Ukrainian pensioners, it's not budgeted with, it's not budgeted. It's, you know, an American firm, up to eight people working in it that examined all of this. And what did they do? In fact, two charges were made. It's about Julia Timoshenko paying pensions to retirees, unlike everything we have today. And the second is that she bought cars for rural medicine. So what I'm saying is, Mr. Azarov, for $2 million, you could have bought another 100 cars. If you did, everything would be fine. Because of this, I am grateful that we finally have that answer. I'm underlining again! The government, in order to settle with the previous government, spent, without asking, $2 million,800,000. Once again, $2 million is $800,000. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u52	Yes, respected colleagues, requests announced, dissatisfaction announced. Although, as you have already heard, the answer is yes. Let us now consider a list of the issues that have been identified today. The question is being addressed: The report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the circumstances and reasons for the current state of affairs in the credit cooperation system. Let me tell you this. In connection with the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a decision of 24 December 2010 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the outcome of the work of the Provisional Investigation Commission on the investigation of the circumstances and reasons for the current state of affairs in the credit cooperation system (established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation of 1 July 2010 (No. 2382-6), and the conclusion of the deadline for the commission of inquiry in accordance with part six of article 88 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I declare that the powers of this commission are terminated. [[No. 2980-5]] [[head – Prassolov, head representative – Klimenko]] The reason for this announcement is the appeal of the head of the Temporary Special Commission of Prasololov on March 25, 2011, in which the commission reported that it had done its work, and she informed us of this in the previous report. We continued her work only so that she could send the appropriate documents to one or more of the responding authorities. She did, that is, we have reason to stop the commission. Please give me a minute, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, the commission has completed its work, but the problems for hundreds of thousands of citizens of credit unions remain. And among them we have an outdated legislative base that regulates credit unions today. We have improper control on the part of the State Commission to regulate this segment. The Cabinet of Ministers' decision of 2006 was never implemented. The state, and this is me and you, has never done anything to help us get out of a crisis situation in a credit-sharing system. So far, there is no guarantee fund for those Ukrainians who are investors in Ukrainian credit unions. By the way, it's a weak competitive position with deposits in the banking system. We've never been able to get the credit-sharing mechanism back into the refinancing mechanism in order to improve their liquidity. Therefore, these problems and many others should not be overlooked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u54	Gordijenko, PPU faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u55	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The interim commission of inquiry has finished its work and if we stop its work today. She did, but like any temporary commission of inquiry that was formed by the Supreme Council, the results ended in nothing, because many thousands of those creditors, the communities that went into the welfare of Poltavščina, Louvno, Acord and dozens, dozens of others were left without money. And our numerous references to law enforcement and government do not lead to anything. Colleague Arzewittin was absolutely right in the face of issues that need to be resolved immediately by both the executive and the legislative branches of authority. Unfortunately, our people do not have to expect the support of the State in today’s situation. And there is no need to give in to those who will.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u56	Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u57	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. You know, I can't agree with the last sentence that the state has to get rid of this problem. Because the government commission for regulating financial services markets in Ukraine is an institution of state. The main tasks and functions of the Derjfin Services are, I quote, “Protecting the rights of consumers of financial services by applying measures of influence with a view to preventing and putting an end to violations of legislation in financial services markets”. We need to examine how the relationship between the Leipzig or the dishonest credit unions and the state institution responsible for this has been formed. The other one. The main tasks of the Department, again, are to speak the DerjfinServices, reading: “A review of the credit union reporting, the development of recommendations for improving their financial situation, the implementation of financial recovery programmes for credit companies”. There are precisely those institutions that have to be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u58	Yes, dear fellows! Sass, I'm sorry, I let it go, I made a mistake. I've just announced that the commission has stopped. We have, as always, a desire to talk. Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u59	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich! Well, of course, the question is very important. I would like to take this opportunity to remind myself that there is a Constitution, 89 articles. Accordingly, the organization and order of the temporary commission of inquiry are determined by law. Until now, the law on temporary investigators and a special commission has not been passed. Rather, he has been accepted more than once. However, given that it was signed by the wrong head of the Supreme Council, it seems that the Constitutional Court was declared unconstitutional. And today, people's rights are not protected in the context of exercising parliamentary control. Therefore, due to the fact that the law is in the Supreme Council, it is necessary to adopt it as soon as possible. Because neither this commission, which closes and terminates the work, nor will any other commission perform its functions in full, because they are not defined by law, is the procedure defined. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to bring to the fore the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u60	Thank you. We'll bring it in and you know what'll happen to him. Question completed. The two factions of "BUT" – "Fatherland" and "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" ask for a recess and a meeting of faction leaders. So I invite the faction leaders to this meeting in my office. A break of 12 hours is announced for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! Apologies for nine minutes of delay, but there is no way that we can overcome this negative trend that we announce for 30 minutes, and we always take over. But the question was extremely interesting, and I have to say and thank all the participants in this meeting for their constructiveness in the sense that everyone spoke with knowledge of the matter and was trying to find a way out of the situation that we are about to consider. But before that, I did. Please, from the factions who took a break, he has a word. Who will be speaking from. No, no. Arjovitin. The banks aren't here. Banks aren't involved yet. Ivan Grigorovich! Mikola Volodymyrovich! Ivan Grigorovitch, who? Yavorowski? Yes, please, Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski. Give him a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u62	Dear voters! I am authorized by the “Julia Timoshenko Block” to make two statements. Very short. First. It has become quite obvious not only to us here in Ukraine but also to the world society that democracy in Ukraine is shrinking much faster than the carpets after Yanukovic's inauguration. It is now absolutely clear what we have huge problems with freedom of speech, and most of all it is that, in fact, in the eyes of today's Ukrainian feared, threatened society, there is a brutal debate over opposition. I want our voters to understand us, it will now be put in place, and they will normally vote to vote on the law. That's what I've been doing since the 1990s here in Parliamentary, and I can tell you that there hasn't been such a thing in the history of Parliamentarianism that a law has been passed against a single person. In this case, against Julia Timoshenko. They want to bring her to court -- what courts do you know -- to hang a trial there and not allow her to go to the next parliamentary or presidential election. Now they're going to commit this crime. The other one. A colossal example, when power is not cultural, anticultural, Ham authorities consider culture to be their main enemy. Because of this, there is a literal pogrom of the Writer’s Association, which is crowned with the names of Maxim Rilsky, Tichina, Soshura, Potter, Zagreb. You can call a lot of talented, brilliant writers. Because we're in opposition today, a lot of writers, and there's always an artist's place, not slipping under the power. Because of this, humane Igor is being established today, he is investigating particularly important matters against the Writer’s Association. What? One tenant entered the territory of another tenant two meters away -- a criminal case is being set up, people are being interrogated, documents are being removed, everything is falling apart. So Humanenkov himself didn't like the signature of one of the leaders of the Writers' Association on the document -- he started a criminal case, ridiculous, hopeless, but half a year ago, all the leaders, including Vasil Schklar, who refused the Chevchenk Prize, who had been released from office, say, the same Anatoly Crimea, whose plays are going around the world today, who wrote the novel "Truba" about our gas addicts, is the same Victor Baranov, who is a writer of the European level -- Michael Slabospitsky, they're calling for questioning and it's gone. Today, the Writer's Association has accepted the approval, it can't support the clinic, they've created a joint venture -- everything is legally absolute. Now they're questioning 65. [[B in m in s a l in]] They question 65 members of the council, call on well - known writers, and take them away from their jobs. Because of this, Yulia Timoshenko's Block claims it will protect the writer's community until the last, because if we don't protect the writers, then the people will. You want this, folks?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u63	This is the fate of the writers. Yes, dear colleagues, we have listened to the talk. Well, practically, the representative of BUT, who was speaking, did not answer the question: Why were we going? So I'm going to do it, I'm going to say it. At the offer of two factions, we're down. They offered to hold a meeting on the bill, which we now have to consider at number 806. I'm not going to be a detail, we're going to be discussing it now, so we're going to understand the details of the conversation. The only thing that Vladimir Aleksandrovitch said was a bill against one person to get to court. Well, if that's true, then I have a question: almost every day, this person says, "I want to look into the court faster, I want to look into the case faster so that I can get to court." [[Applause]] So I don't know if the faction's been disobeyed and out of party leadership, has the party leader changed his mind? But this is your business. So we're talking about. Once again, the conversations of a calm, balanced and productive council of the Conciliation Council, where there were representatives of each of the five parties and group, most of them four against two, spoke in favour of considering the bill that is now in the agenda. What we need from this bill is some nuances, and we have agreed that there are immediate changes to other articles of the Criminal Procedure Code, and we are considering it in the next plenary week. But this is about other articles. As for today 8006, the bill, I repeat, we will consider it by the decision of the Conciliation Council. After a minute? Well, give it a minute to the leaders who want it. Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the fact that colleagues from the faction of the Party of Regions near the rostrum show that the law has an extraordinary – extraordinary! – political weight. Therefore, the depoliticization of this law is excluded. Political law alone. Adam Ivanovich, say another thing: Lawyers present at the Conciliation Council have made it clear that this law, in principle, cannot function according to the terms recorded there. What do we answer? To plant one of these people, and then this law will be repealed and a new law will be written in a normal legal place. But after they've planted this man. So we are strongly protesting this. It's a prank. It's an attack on a political leader, it's an attack on the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko. We strongly condemn this practice of anti-democracy, the anti-human attitude in general, the anti-human attitude. This will condemn European society, condemning world society, condemning politics beyond Ukraine. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u65	Please, from the faction "Our Ukraine." Who's your senior? The Prince to whom? Moses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u66	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, first of all, the esteemed radio listeners! Here's the law. Today, article 218 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code states that when the case is closed, the defendant and the accused have the right to know the material. And this article says that they cannot be limited in time to familiarize themselves with the material of the matter. It was both in distant Soviet times and in independent Ukraine. What does power and coalition offer today? They're setting deadlines through court. If the accused or counsel has not been familiar with the material of the case, the case shall be referred to the court for trial. So despite the moments that we discussed at the Conciliation Council, Adam Ivanovich, we believe that this law, if, as colleagues say, is directed at one person, but it will work in the whole society. Thus, he cannot be approved. This is an anti-national and anti-constitutional law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u67	Yes, other factions. Kolechenko, Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! The absurdity of this discussion is simply a laughing matter. We are today trying to bring our justice into line with international law. That's the first one. Second. Publicly, continuously and systematically, criminals, refusing to familiarize themselves with the facts of the case, block the transfer of the case to court. In this case, there are no names in the draft law at all. We are trying, as promised, to accelerate justice. So if you don't want us to change the bill, you show that you're preparing procedural diversions, and you want criminals to walk free, which is against the interests of our people. We are for the court to be just in accordance with the law. And if that change would be contrary to the Constitution or the Declaration on Human Rights, all of this would, of course, be abolished. However, everything is done in accordance with international standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u69	A member of the Court Committee spoke, so listen. Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I would like us to go back to the technical component of this bill. Here's what we're doing on the Conciliation Council. We're trying to find a political element here. And I'm going to the whole room again. There is no relation to this bill from me as a subject of the legislative initiative to Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. I am addressing you, and if there are any speculations on this issue today, please stop them. May I remind you, dear colleagues, what have we agreed on? That all the additional amendments that need to be made to this bill after considering it today on the second reading, I will personally introduce the 8006-1, which introduces 24 amendments to the Ukrainian KPC. And on Tuesday, we'll vote on the drafts. I think the hall in this case will be fully supported. There are arrangements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u71	Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u72	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. The faction advocates the consideration of the bill, which is marked today in the order of our day. And what's going on today, my dear fellows, let's realize one thing. We're introducing another element of censorship, that is to say, to conform to any legislative act of one person now all subsequent bills that will appear in the legal plane will need to be carried out by an expert, whether it is in the interests of the person who is currently being roasted or not being held accountable. Dearly beloved, even if the suggestions made for second reading are correct, and I do not rule out that they are right, they do not apply to 218 articles, and then they run into 116 articles of the Constitution and cannot be considered today. So I propose to consider the bill, as it is in the order of our meeting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u73	Yes. Communication took place. The issue is being addressed -- draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of the accused and the defence counsel to criminal proceedings]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number 8006]] The rapporteur is Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz, head of the Committee on Law Enforcement. The second reading is the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u74	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, I am a member of the BUT-Fatherhood faction, and according to the decision of our faction, I cannot report this bill, which substantially narrows down the constitutional rights of the leader of our party, Volodymyrna Timoshenko, in defense. This is a bill against democracy in Ukraine. In this regard, I refuse to report this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, on the one hand, is politically right Viktor Dmitrovich, on the other hand, as a lawyer and as head of the committee is wrong. But since we haven't passed the law that civil servants or national MPs are non-secretaries, it's his business. So we'll look into it. The only thing we're going to consider, dear fellows, is that we're only going to consider the amendments that relate to what we accepted in the first reading. On the first reading, I remind you that we accepted the changes to 218 articles. There is a violation of article 116 of the Rules, and the committee has changed to articles 12. We will not consider these changes. We're going to go this way, which is what Caplienko was talking about as one of the co-authors of this bill that agreed, in fact, a separate bill would be passed and it would be read first and second. It is not excluded that he will be accepted. So once again, I will be given the floor only by those who have amended 218 articles. Amendment number one. Moses, please. Put your hands down. Everybody get a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u76	Respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u77	It's his right. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u78	What difference does it make to you? Do you want to do it for me? Go on. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Once there's no committee report, I want to talk about this law in two words. So I briefly said, this is about a substantial limitation on the pretrial investigation of the rights of the defender and the defendant. Next. I drew attention to the Conciliation Council on Coalition Action in Legal Matters. Dear colleagues, a coalition member of the Communist Party recommends that the death penalty be reinstated. Yesterday, the coalition voted to remove the law from the national jury’s participation in the judiciary. The president promised an amnesty law, the President promised an article 155 law that softened or strengthened requirements for a person who could be taken into custody. Today, we propose to limit the rights of the accused and the defenders. My amendment was to actually cancel our first-reading vote with you, give it to the author what he agrees to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u79	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u80	The author, the legal office and the next Tuesday, Thursday, we could have passed the law we really needed, but not in that way. In view of the coalition’s effect on my judgment, I likewise refuse to participate in the next discussion of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u81	Yes, so amendment number one is not a vote. Because the author does not insist. Amendment number 8 counted. Please, Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u82	Yuri Prokopchuk, “BUT – Fatherland”. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'm also pointing out to you that once in the session room, I wasn't allowed to report to the rostrum at all, because there was a commission there, but there was no message. This is once again a gross violation of both the rules and the Constitution -- when we're looking at this bill without a report. That's the first one. The other one. For this law to work, there's already been a lot of attention here, but I call it a clear figure. Up to 15 legislative acts need to be amended. And when it's not there, it confirms once again that it's an exclusive political order to limit the constitutional rights of just one person. And that doesn't apply to everyone. And then there's going to be, there's going to be an order for another person. Maybe the neighbors.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u83	Yes, dear fellows! I'm the 11th amendment, which is considered by the committee, and I'm betting on confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. Sorry, take it off. Not the 11th. 8 revisions. After 8 amendments, I'm voting for confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:48:32]] Z-11. Yes, Amendment 9, Yavorowski, do you insist? No, it's rejected. The 10th Amendment of Crucifixion is included. I'm betting on confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:49:01]] For 1 Yes, the 11th Amendment of Vlasenka is taken into account in an editorial way. Please, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u84	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. It's not taken into account editorially, because the point in my amendment is the conceptual thing that the terms of the case are the question of the accused person, not the investigator. Because today we have an investigator who determines what a reasonable period of knowledge is, what is a reasonable period of knowledge, that the accused should go to the prosecutor’s office every day, whether in the following organs from 9 to 6 p.m., without having the opportunity to engage in his or her basic activities, nothing more. So my amendment is that it is the defendant’s right to determine the time frame for him to get to know the material of the case. Therefore, this amendment is not taken into account, and I ask that it be put to the vote so that we have at least minimally secured the rights of the accused when they are familiar with the material of the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u85	Thank you. The 11th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:50:19]] For the four of us. Not supported. Odarchenko, 12th. Declined. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, we all know that the justice system is being built today, as if it had to be preserved in power, to protect Viktor Fedorovich from any opposition. Today, the only thing that happens is that he's trying to eliminate the opposition that he can, the "Fatherland" party, that can change the form of power in the country. He understands that the Midianites in the kitchens, they can't influence the structure of power in the state, and the destruction of the structural opposition, that's exactly what he needs. And I'm talking to the members of the Party of Regions, they have to understand that building this justice system, it's going to apply to them tomorrow. Today, they are building Pharaoh’s authority, which will destroy them tomorrow as well as opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u87	Yeah, don't insist on voting, I get it. Yavorowski is 13, and Vlasenko. Please, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u88	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich! I just want to remind you that there's practically not enough people in the room for any vote or amendment. Just in the room, as my colleagues tell me, 72 people who vote there or not for everyone, and we can't even discuss this right now. However, with regard to this article, you know, when considering one of the questions about the continuation of the custody period under the custody of Yuri Lucenka, when the investigators asked the court to limit the time frame of the case, the judge, well, the man of courage, said that people are human rights violations, it's a violation of human rights of any limitations, including the court, period of familiarity with the material of the case. And now we're being asked to do it. It's to protect people's rights. This is not about those who are now familiar with the material of the matter. Everyone will be familiar with the material of the case. That is why we protect the rights of all for today — those who are today — those who will be tomorrow. So please support and exclude this article altogether from the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u89	13 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:52:56]] For the four of us. This is the right of national deputies. Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Adam Ivanovich, don't waste your time, don't lose your strength, it's a farce. We understand perfectly the arguments of the party that made the amendments, and you feel the weight. There's an attack on human rights in the broad front. If most people don't vote, everyone understands very well that it doesn't support these absolutely democratic, completely civilized things. Put the question to the vote. We're not going to discuss our amendments anymore, there's no point. We won't take part in the farce. 72 deputies, 50 of whom came out to block and say that it's not a political issue. Who would believe that? 72 deputies in the hall. One person’s decision is made. They're going to make a case for this man, and then this law will be repealed, because it's not going to work. The horrors that will be done in the legal system have already been said by lawyers and others. What are we doing? But stop, come on, it'll be up to you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u91	As far as I can see, no one's blocking the rostrum. That's the first one. The other one. In the session room, there are far more than 72 national deputies. Please, Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u92	You know, I'm on the Conciliation Council, and now I hear the same argument that the document we're taking will not work. But if he doesn't work, what are we dealing with? I think Adam Ivanovich, the bill has been drafted according to the Rules. We're not trying to get a reputation here, they're just colleagues who think it's happening. We are trying to streamline the legislation and we need to think further about the following: we have a huge number of people sitting in SIZO for years when the investigation cannot be completed. Therefore, I would like to ask the legal practitioners who are involved in this matter, so let us prepare another bill and address this problem. A person can't sit in SIZO more than he's attracted to. And these facts are not unique, they are universal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u93	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, my amendments are not included in the table. The head of the committee told me he would give his word, but he gave it up now. So my point of view could not, could not be presented. I believe that what is happening is a brutal violation of article 22 of the Constitution. Let me remind you that when new laws are passed, or changes are made to existing ones, it is not possible to narrow down the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms, first of all. Secondly, a violation of article 63 of the Constitution is permitted. And thirdly, I am one of the authors of the new Criminal Procedure Code. I'm looking at this queen, so just so you know, it's not going to go to the Supreme Council, but it's a little episode, when someone who's convenient is now changing to the old one, even though the entire legal community is talking about how to do new work, it's all new. As a result, I confirm that this is an exclusive political order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u95	The 14th Amendment of Krutz, which the committee has taken into account, I'm betting on confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:56:59]] For-0 The 15th Amendment of Sweden, which the Committee has taken into account, I place on the subject of confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:57:19]] For two. Two votes for. Not confirmed. 16 repairs to Prokopchuk. The committee counted. Please, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u96	Mr. Martinyuk, I'm paying attention to how you selectively react to this. In general, the promotion of laws. Yesterday, when voting for the very important Anti-Corruption Act, the amendments that were taken into account were not supported. You're putting them in today. Put it consciously, in order to remove at least those standards that really in the right field will partially guide this law. Although I remind you once again, the 15 laws need to be amended, and then I will return to the words of Griboedov: "It would be good to advise, to serve, to serve!".. Last time you didn't let me say that. Serves the Ukrainian people, not today’s authorities! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u97	Well, it's your job to serve whom to serve. On the subject of an appeal. I'm not "sir" to you. And you don't give a shit about me. The other one. You're a colonel to me. And the senior lieutenant or the captain or the Soviet army. That's how I can address you. With regard to "questioning," I'm acting under the Rules. As far as adopting the bill is concerned, I'm not taking them anywhere but you. 16 The amendment of the Prokopchuk, which is considered by the committee, is based on confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:59:08]] For the four of us. Not confirmed. 17 amendments, please, to Prokopchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u98	For me, the man who serves the capitalists today, even though he is a member of the Communist Party, is himself a gentleman. By the way, sir is a Ukrainian address. So your comments also. Please don't comment on what I'm saying. But once again, I would like to point out that you are still violating the Constitution, the Rules. Not only is there not enough to make a really objective and legally balanced decision, but this law has absolutely no prospect of acting as such. Because the first thing that's broken is the Constitution, that's what they've talked about. Therefore, do not overwhelm such decisions, and then you will make any adjustments that are included in the following laws, please. Don't be selective.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u99	Yes, thank you. It feels like you're representing the Plainness that's been under pansy Poland for a long time. The word "pan" is not Ukrainian. The 17th amendment is voting, it's counted, I'm asking you to determine. [[13:00:33]] For-0 Yes, Olinick, 18th Amendment, accounted for. Doesn't he insist on arguments? Yes, I'll bet you on confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:01:00]] For-0 Not confirmed. The 19th Amendment, Moses, does not insist. I'm betting on confirmation of the 19th amendment, please be sure. [[13:01:24]] For-0 Not confirmed. Yes, and as for 218 articles and this law, we still have the 26th Prokopchuk amendment. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u100	For the Volin tenants who broke up with the ladies today. I want you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u101	Turn off the microphone. I'm putting to the vote the 26th Amendment of the Prokopchuk, which is confirmed, please identify yourself. [[13:02:06]] For-0 Not confirmed. Once again, the chairman has the right to turn off the microphone if they use uncensored words. In the light of the discussion, I am voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] I promised Carmazin. Carmine microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! I want to tell you that the majority who vote, including allies, really, 72. [[I've counted them now.]] I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that the judiciary has observed that this bill needs to be redrafted and re-readed. Therefore, the honorable Adam Ivanovich, evidently in order not to disturb the situation in the hall, so as not to question the unconstitutionality of the law, the veto on the law, and so on, it is obvious that a second reading must be sent. That would calm things down. In particular, we need to draw conclusions and listen here to the Human Rights Commissioner, Nina Ivanovna Karpachov, to the opinion of the Head of the Supreme Court, the head of the Supreme Court in criminal and civil matters. Only then can we objectively accept changes to this law. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u103	Yes, I am voting on the second reading and the whole Act No. 8006 – the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (to inform the accused and the defence attorney of the criminal case). I'll take it from here. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Take down the vote. 27 amendments. Yeah, it's a little different. Please, Odarchenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, right now this final amendment, the vote for it will be a clear test or a political order, will it not? Is this true of Julius Timoshenko, the leader of the Fatherland? And I'm going to read it, this law does not apply to criminal cases where the accused or his guardian began to familiarize himself with the material of the case before it became effective. Today we confirm and clearly see what is happening today as a political farce. Today, Adam Ivanovich is absolutely a sign, and today you are trying to put your chains on. It's a shame, Adam Ivanovich, that you're the only person in the Supreme Council who's taken on this disgraceful responsibility-- the issue of putting the bonds on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u105	The 27th amendment shall be put to the vote. The decision of the committee is not taken, that is, it will depend on the decision of the Supreme Council. I'm asking you to be sure. [[13:05:39]] For -6 Not supported. All the amendments to 218 articles were made. None of them are confirmed. The first reading is left. As we adopted in the first reading, I'm voting on the adoption of a bill as a whole to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. [[No. 8006]] Please vote. [[13:06:18]] For 263 The law is passed. The factions, please. Region Party – 188, Fatherland – BUT – 0, Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense – 2, Communists – 24, Reforms for the Future – 18, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 11. Dear colleagues, given that we have violated the terms of the recess, we will now consider a bill with a reduced procedure, and we will move on to another one. Let's go to the Vulnerable. Who would like the draft Act amending the Act on Shareholders' Associations to be considered on a reduced basis, please vote. [[Registration number 8174]] [[13:07:27]] For 214 Supported. Please report to Bogslav Vjacheslav Aleksandrovich, author of the bill. Prepare Plednik from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, our law is intended to protect the trademark of Ukraine's shareholders. If you can imagine for a moment that the Senate of America would vote that the Ford or Boeing sign would have a public appetizer, it probably wouldn't dream of anyone in a nightmare. Therefore, the trademark always has a history. The trademark has been established for years, decades, and some for centuries. The law, which was adopted in 2007, is therefore fair with regard to the statutes of these enterprises. A public, non-public shareholding company is defined by its work, the participation of a stockholder in exchanges where the shareholding company is traded or traded. I am therefore approached by many managers of large enterprises who work abroad, who have multiple licences, have multiple certificates of quality, even foreign ones, and changing the name in the trademark will lead to serious, not only financial, but, above all, loss of even buyers at a certain stage for, behold, the products of these enterprises. I'm asking you to be very careful because not only is that my opinion, it's the opinion of the head of the enterprise, which refers to different factions. We must protect the trademark, the trademark of Ukrainian stockholders from such affections. The public or non-public activities of the various shareholders are defined, once again, by the statute. Please support our proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u107	Thank you. Have a seat. The firemen from the committee. Alexy Plonikov, Committee on Economic Policy
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u108	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on 5 April 2011, Protocol No.59, reviewed the draft Act of Ukraine amending the Act on Shareholder Associations, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies to Bogslayev and Suhim. [[regarding the restoration of the name at the legislative level of an open stock company]] This is 8174. The project proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine on stock companies and on securities and the stock market. In line with these changes, public shareholders are recognized as open shareholders. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of March 15, notes that the bill is to be rejected. The Cabinet of Ministers, in its conclusion of April 6, 2011, does not support the bill. At the same time, taking into account the nature of the committee’s discussion, the committee decided to recommend draft law No. 8174 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u109	Thank you. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, please sign up. Please, Stoyan, Grigorovich. Dry, please, Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! Probably the only thing that's left in our country that's competitive is high-tech production. Airlift, missile-building. In some ways, there are other areas in the area of machine building. And these brand brands are now known to them in the world. Just as they know "Boing", so they know "Rolls-Royce", so they know "Motor Sich", and so do KB "Southern", as they know "Topaz". Imagine that all of these names will have to be renamed. The science-expert department says it's going to be free. You can imagine representing a company in China or India, it's going to have to be renamed. And there's all the documentation to be processed. Among other things, they are called public societies, which at the time of their registration have so called themselves, and they have the goal of going to the stock market. In this case, it is an open language, open to the protection of the domestic manufacturer. So I urge you all to support this bill. And Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to put to the vote, in general it consists of one sentence: allowing yourself, together with the public, to be called an open stockholder society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u111	Grigorovich is handing over Arjevetina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u112	Dear National Deputies! Perhaps on the first reading, this bill can be adopted. But in a way that there is today, it creates a double attitude. On the one hand, the authors would suggest that different societies be regulated by one thing. But we know that closed stock companies, they are regulated by the Law on Economic Societies. Open stock companies are regulated by the Act on Shareholders. So there's a little bit of an inadequacy here. It's on the one side. On the other hand, such injustice is depicted. The reshaping of all these licenses, licenses, certificates for the Ukrainian side, we passed in law that this would be done free of charge. And what will really be the price for enterprises that have foreign representations, a foreign share? So you have to think about what the price is. And that's why I think we can support it on the first reading. Before the second reading, try to adjust something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u113	Factions that didn't act. From your faction, Yuri Anatoliyovich, spoke. From yours, too. Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, to our conviction, to the belief of the faction of the People's Party, we should support this legislative initiative. And I think it might be a sample for others. Because the trademark, you know, in today's world it's 50 percent success. And I think that this is a glorious enterprise that we're talking about right now deserves this basic justice of a clear identification of the trademark. Once again, it's very important, we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u115	Yes, Carmazine, please. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin. The distinguished national MPs, the national deputy of Arjevetin, were right about what it was. He doesn't mind this bill, as much as I do, and everyone doesn't mind. What's more, we're only asking the question as -- in the name of the type to allow use. Anyone who wants to use it doesn't use it. But in order to clean up the moment legally, if we want to adopt this law in a second reading right now, we need to take down the warnings that are in Arjevetina, which are in the same Carmazin. What is the warning? We need to make more changes to the Shareholder Society Act, which is not written here. So you have to write down whether there's a protocol to make the same changes, and write the same thing down. If we do that, we count, then we can vote, then I think we don't have any warnings, we take them down. If we do not do so, we need to prepare for the second reading. I'd like us to move slowly in the legislative field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u117	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for your wise advice. In the light of Arjevetin's proposal, as specified by counterpart Karmazin, I ask to vote on the adoption as a whole as a bill under Law No. 8174, the draft Act amending the Act on Shareholder Associations and other legislative acts of Ukraine with a protocol mandate to make appropriate amendments to the Act on Shareholder Associations when preparing the bill before the signature. [[regarding the restoration of the name at the legislative level of an open stock company]] Please vote. [[13:16:57]] For 269 The law is passed. Thank you. I'd like you to sign up for "Virgin." Put it on the board. Dear colleagues, once again, you can only pass the word in the presence of a national deputy when it comes to him, then he can pass the word to anyone he wants and leave the session room. I will not accept any notes in writing, only a national MP present in the room has the right to pass on the word. Please, Yuri Potopchuk. The helmet is next. Although there was some sort of misunderstanding. Digger, please. Where's Pottchuck? Wait, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u118	Dear Ukrainian people! Today, in this Hall, in violation of all the norms of the most sacred law - the Constitution has been extended through a knee that violates all the rules of the Rules, a law that will today give rise to the destruction of the opposition in Ukraine, which violates all the rules of procedure that today contravenes the 15 legal acts of Ukraine that give rise to the right and the grounds for doing so. All of this is an order against our leader, the leader of the Fatherland of Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. But this will not end, for this law will also be copied among others who today will defend the interests of the Ukrainian people. We claim that further practice of holding Mr. Martinyuk's session becomes impossible, and we are questioning the position of deputy head as violator of the Constitution and the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u119	Yes, please, Schlemko. I remind you that my position is my first deputy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wooden? Please, Wooden. And Mutsu get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u120	Vasile Derevljany, Faction "BUT" is "The Fatherland." Dear Ukrainians! For the second year in the Ternopil area, representatives of the executive branch of Yanuković’s administration have begun the total looting of wealth in the area. Yes, according to the impeccable and cowardly position of former head of ODA Zimbaluk and today's head of ODA Hoptjana Ternopil region has lost all the liquor factories that will be "privatized" by representatives of today's government. These free district managers have cut off 300 million dollars of tax dollars from different levels of budget: now taxes will go to the city of Brovary, where they are registered. And hundreds of employees of these factories have lost their normal wages. This is at a time when the country’s lowest wage is in the Ternopil region. President Yanukovic's message yesterday, which states that in the near future the land should be a commodity, the head of ODA the Hoptians and the heads of the RDA took into account already in advance and began to implement land ownership at a rapid rate of tens and hundreds of hectares in their personal interests. Here's an example. I was approached by the villagers of Kamyanka and by the Movchanovka District of Ternopil district, who asked me to look into the situation that arose about 190 hectares [190 ha] of land in the Kamyanka Rural Council reserve fund. The complainants claim that on March 3, 2011, more than 150 residents of these villages applied for permission to produce the project by the Land Authority. But on March 2, 2011, the head of ODA, RDA Sum, ordered the granting of these 190 acres [190 ha] of land to run the farm of the citizen of Mousek. The claimants believe that the head of the Ternopil ODA Hoptians has a personal interest in providing the listed land to the citizen of Glushka. Since he is still in the post of head of Ternopil’s Podvolochovsky RDA, he now resides in a private house in the village of Kamyanka, which belongs to a citizen of Mousek. It is very strange that the force structures of the region have moved from taking action to these leaders who are stealing human land to those overseers who want to own something in each spirit plant. It follows that the fight against corruption today applies only to the people, not to the subordinates of President Yanukovic. My statement is considered a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Attorney General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u121	Yes, Mitz Oreste, please. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u122	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. Honourable compatriots, honourable colleagues, yesterday in a letter to the Supreme Council and Council of Regions, President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine called attention to the need for a radical fight against corruption, noting that corruption is destroying the state and demeaning every citizen. So eliminating corruption schemes is a definite requirement. Viktor Janukovic stressed that he supported all initiatives related to the will of corrupters, wherever they worked, and whatever authority they had. Clearly, in the fight against corruption, we will have to face the opposition of the corrupters themselves. For example, in the Ternopil area, the Control and Audit Authority is headed by John Panzo, who is 64 years old and has a disability group, a known public corrupter with an internship discredits power. Under pressure from the Chief of Staff, 28 experienced auditors have already been released. Instead, the regional KRU became a haven for pensioners and relatives of members of the power structures. When you enter this facility, it seems to me that it was in the refugee era, and some of its employees saw Lenin still alive. Is it true that in Ternopilska, where 50,000 students are trained, three national higher education institutions, including economics, have failed to prepare a decent substitute for professionals? Of course, they did. Another problem is that such as Panzo has become accustomed to responsible government offices to inherit or sell for bribes. The cover-up of beneficial interests has turned the regional supervisory and financial organization into a political platform of the local community. The Regional Audit Office in today's warehouse with the chief and retired pensioners who view the budget as their own is unable to carry out the Ukrainian President's task of combating corruption. As a national deputy, I applied to the relevant ministries and authorities regarding the allegations of abuse by the chief of the CIA in the field of service, but I received only formal and not essentially the answer. On behalf of the people of Ternopolska, who are not indifferent to the fate of the country, I ask Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov, Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the Minister of Finance, Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, to consider the appropriateness of being the head of the Ternopil District Court, Mr. Panz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u123	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi. Get ready for Kovalevski. Exactly. So Suhi and Kovalevska are giving Koleschenka six minutes, please. The next one is School.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, for the first time in 20 years of the independence of our country, President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, gave a clear and bold programme to address the language problem in Ukraine. In his message to the Supreme Council, the President focused on the need for public policy in this area to be a reconciliation of public interest with the interests of all ethnic groups living in our country, developing their cultural, linguistic and religious identity, creating Ukrainian national identity. At the same time, the national identity of Ukraine and the Ukrainian political nation must be based, not on mono-ethnic or mono-lingual mythology, but on the principles of unconditional respect for human rights, citizenship, unity and cultural diversity of broad dialogue. This is the main message that I believe was presented in a message to the Ukrainian people based on the periodic report of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which was published last summer. I recall that this is a mandatory report for those countries that have ratified the Charter in the regional and minority languages. It is noteworthy that the report of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe refers to systemic and mass violations of human rights in Ukraine in previous years in the area of the protection of the human right to use the mother tongue. I quote: “Russian”, in the opinion of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, the official organ of Europe, “the Russian language is taken to an inappropriate level”. And then there's the quote. “According to the number of Russian speakers in Ukraine, it is clear that special status should be granted to the Russian language.” Why is this phrase so principled? For one simple reason. This year, the Ukrainian State reports to the Council of Europe once again in accordance with our obligations, as we implement the Charter of Regional Languages and the second part of the report, as we have implemented the direct recommendations of the official body of the Council of Europe. And today we have to note that there are double standards and hypocrisy in the Council of Europe because the well-known recommendations of the Venice Commission, the advisory body of the Council of Europe, which were published on 30 March this year, are directed against this bill, which was prepared by our colleagues Greenewecko, Simonenko and Ephraim on languages in Ukraine. Most importantly, what became clear to all, this decision of the Venice Commission was deliberately created to destabilize, violate human rights in Ukraine and destabilize our situation. However, if we fail to comply with the Committee of Ministers' decision to improve the status of the Russian language, we can be monitored or sanctioned by the Council of Europe. On the other hand, if we go to the decision of the Venice Commission, we will again be subject to sanctions. What is the interest of the decision of the Venice Commission? Indeed, because it has demonstrated double standards and used totalitarian rhetoric on Ukraine's historic past, it has discriminated against Ukrainian citizens whose mother tongue is not State. It was not the legal nature of the commission's decision that the members of the commission, who had systematically spoken at the meeting, understood our decision on Ukraine in no way and could never be used as a precedent. The members of the commission knew what they were saying because, on similar issues for other European countries, they had decided to protect human rights and to protect their linguistic rights. Aware of and understanding the ambiguity of the decision, recognizing that the decision of the Venice Commission is exclusively political and not legal, the public organization of Ukraine, the local authorities decide to declare to the European Community the inadmissibility of double standards and the inadmissibility of an attempt to blow up the humanitarian situation in Ukraine. Today, the Odessa City Council, at its session, has already adopted a decision addressed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for the adoption of the Law on Languages, edited by Greenewecko, Ephraim and Simonenko. Furthermore, they addressed the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, OSCE and the Human Rights Organizations of the Council of Europe that the Venice Commission allowed double standards for Ukraine to be reviewed by the decision of the Venice Commission. The following week, these decisions will be taken and supported by the Inckerman City Council, the Sevastopol City Council, and the same decisions will be prepared in Zaporozhye District, Kharkiv Region, Lugansk Region, Nikolayevsk. This will be the response of those hypocrites who hate human rights and try to discriminate against Ukraine and to make it a third country that has no access to human rights and who have no access to European principles. I recall once again the principle of the construction of Ukraine, Ukraine for all who live in it, the human rights for us are a priority and a guarantee in this is the statement by President Yanuković of Ukraine in his message, which he said that we renounce unilateral mythology, we are building a State on the principles of unconditional respect for human rights, citizenship, unity and cultural diversity. Our political Ukrainian nation is built on a broad dialogue in the protection of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u125	Please, Andrew School and the next Prokopchuk. The thing is, I've got the Prokopchuk down, he's on the show, so I've got another list.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u126	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Of course, I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished TV audiences, the radio audiences, our Ukrainian voters, to what literally took a few minutes in the Supreme Council session hall. You know, I don't know what you could say and promise someone out there in the West, claiming that there is a democracy in Ukraine, I don't know how you can call that an arrangement that is democratic in Ukraine. But in any case, there are things that should not be and cannot be destroyed by this Constitution. When the Constitution is destroyed, when it is not implemented and denied, it is followed by the introduction of a simple, common totalitarian state. And I don't know how we're going to have to do that, who voted and supported it, shave in front of future generations, because we're still going to have to do what we did. I am sure that those who did this knew deep down that they were doing what was bad, but they did little. Because I'm saying again, what instrument did you give to the law enforcement? They will be able to get to know the case of those under investigation within a short period of time. There's not even a question in that last name, not that you wanted to put Timoshenko in that way -- that's understandable. That's understandable. You want to give her a term so she doesn't go to the Supreme Council because you're afraid of her like "fear the devil." Of course, because "the hell they do" and in your understanding of that word and the Christian one. So I would like to point out that you've hit people with the same thing, or they might be. I don't know if they'll ever be investigated. Plus, of course, I'm sure you're violating another norm, you're going to force the law to work and have it back. But you gave the lawkeepers a chance to say that you're on a case of 17 volumes on you for three days to get to know you. That's it. I didn't get to know him, they added a term. So people and their lawyers won't be able to read the case. That's why in Ukraine, you used to be a fool, and you also borrowed a democratic way of familiarizing yourself with the matter. You can't force anyone, there's no democracy or there's a good thing about coercion. Either you're doing a good job, or we're putting you in jail, or you're quick to get to know and not read your own stuff to protect yourself, and your lawyer won't read it, or we'll put you in jail. So believe me, you're not going to transplant everyone, you're not going to transplant. You're the ones who're afraid of jails. Do you understand? You're really gonna have to kill. Prepare to have your pistols handed to you next time and shoot anyone who does not get wet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u127	Yes, Prokopchuk is handing over Potopchuk, please. Get ready for Komara.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u128	As Ukrainian national deputies, we were asked to be appointed by the teams of the leaders of Vladimirecki, Sarnitsky, Dobrovicsky, Breznen, Rokytinski Paradise communities of the Plain region, Kashirské, Volinské region and other leaders for the corruption of the 17.02 period. In 2011, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, launched a tender for the purchase of food services for over 70,000 children. According to the claimants, the bidder was unlawfully recognised as a daily propeller T.O.A. "Avika", whose offer was greater than the supply of a paradise for more than 10 million dollars. This decision is taken by Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine Dzubak, the head of the tendering commission, who considers it fair and explains the refusal of a paradise meal by submitting them in incomplete form some of the documents for participating in the tender. Such a formal refusal entails serious damage to the budget. This society does not have a material base in the listed areas, experts, and lack of organizational and productive experience, or knowledge of responsibilities. That's why, because of Avika's guilt, since April 1, this year, about 70,000 children of the black people have stopped eating in the above-mentioned areas. These havens have been feeding children for decades, and at their expense, they have created strong material and technical bases in school cafeterias. Their work can be heard only from parents and children. At the same time, Avika, who had previously fed the military forces of Ukraine, had been removed from the process because of the impeccable provision of services. On the basis of the above, we strongly ask the facts set out, in the order established by law, to reverse the results of the corruption tender, to bring the guilty to justice for counterfeiting the results of the tender, to allow the food industry to continue eating until the end of the school year. This is a reference by my colleagues, 26 national deputies from various factions who have signed up, and I ask you to count as a request to the Attorney General's Office, to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine of Social Policy Sergey Tihypak and to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the following statement that the second time the tax commander of Melnicka Sergio’s tax area has been violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u129	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u130	the case is referred to a court with a violation of all rights and pressure on it, and there is no possibility for the lawyer or accused person to know the case. The lawyer was not allowed to do any investigating. The person who has lost consciousness of the charge is, in our view, a political settlement. And please consider my application as a deputy request to Henprocuror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u131	Please, Nicholas Komar. Prepare the Councilman.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u132	Not a complaint, but I thank Adam Ivanovich for finally giving the floor. Well, there's always another way to talk to women. Dear colleagues, yesterday, speaking with the Annual Parliamentary Message, President of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic stressed that Ukraine has all the conditions to effectively and consistently defend its interests in the world. The unity between the President of Ukraine, the government and the majority of MPs in Parliament has brought political stability to the state. Ukraine’s new development, along with its restoration and expansion of the international image of our nation in the world arena, is under way. A friendly, partnership and mutually beneficial relationship with countries around the world is the basis of an external political course of a strong, independent state, a reliable strategic partner that Ukraine is. In relations with the Russian Federation, it is quite possible to go to a model that is in the interests of both countries of the strategic partnership. There are now great opportunities for large-scale projects in the field of economics, science and modern technology. But this is possible only because we have mutual respect and search, not for what separates us, but for what unites us. And there are already important gains in this direction. That is, creating a qualitatively new constructive atmosphere of bilateral dialogue. A partnership with the United States is important for Ukraine. Viktor Yanukovich’s meeting with Barack Obama in Washington gave a new tone to the strategic dialogue between Ukraine and the United States. Ukraine’s cooperation with the European Union remains constructive and dynamic. European integration is not just one of the key priorities of our foreign policy, it is a strategy for systemic socio-economic reforms, because the European Union is a huge number of regulatory norms, rules, instructions that result from a fairly long professional reconciliation. The position of President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine regarding NATO has become prominent in relations with the North Atlantic Alliance. Ukraine is a non-block state. The State's participation in any military-political union must be decided solely by means of an all-Ukrainian referendum based on the will of the entire Ukrainian people. It is now in the order of our day-to-day state that it is a specific task to fill in the practical content, primarily economic, all the agreements and arrangements that have already been made, especially with the European Union, within the framework of the Commonwealth of Independent States and in other regional structures, and at the bilateral level, as well as to work actively on new agreements that meet our main national interests. [[SND]] So balanced, mutually beneficial and friendly foreign policy is the guarantee of developed, economically.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u133	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u135	Thank you. The Councilman of the Chaplin is passing it on, please. Yeah, no. Next Denkovich. I can't see. Good boy next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Gennady Alexanderovich Zadirko, a national deputy, unfortunately, was unable to attend today’s hearing, but long after dealing with the issue of anti - corruption, he assigned me, the national deputy of the Caplayanka, to speak on his behalf. And I would like to raise a question about the activities of the Audit Authority, which is now the Derjfininspection of the Donetsk Region, which is headed by Zedan Alexander Ivanovich. According to the National MP Zadirka, citizens who report to his MPs have proved that there are signs of corruption on the part of the government. And maybe the head of the audit office. The references provide numerous evidence of a mellowing of material checks by excluding millions of pennies from them. Interestingly, those who have spoken give written, written evidence. Let me give you a few examples. Yes, a financial breach totalling 1.3 million dollars was set up in the reconstruction of the house of the prenatal school of culture funded by the Euro - 2012 training program. As evidenced by the composite act. Information is being sent to the prosecutor’s office in Donetsk. In an audit of the utility company, a total of 253,000 dollars was found by the Austrian City Council Capital Building Authority. These figures were initially excluded from the summary report. However, after repeated complaints of this fact, a criminal case was still committed. However, no representative of the audit board has claimed any responsibility. Well, of course, there are also problems in the human resources sector of the government, where people who give diplomas to support their higher education are admitted to work in another state. I would like to remind you that in my annual address, Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, President of our country, said the following. Today, corruption has become a direct threat to the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Therefore, covering up corruption schemes and the timely approval of anti-corruption laws is the first absolute requirement. He also said that we support all initiatives related to monitoring and detection of corruption, wherever they work, and whatever authority they have. Overcoming corruption is also an important additional resource for economic development. Certainly, in our view, the National Deputy Zadirka feels that this situation, which has arisen in the Donetsk Audit Authority, is defaming the existing authority and is very important in compromising the President of Ukraine, most of them and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We sent a request to the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u137	Eugene Good. Get Marmazov ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u138	Good boy, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland Party. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! It is hard to imagine that in modern times, not in movies, but in real life, in the territory of one sovereign State, the second - state security forces are peacefully operating on the kidnapping of a third - country national, and none of the leaders of Ukraine’s special services and the leaders of the state can confirm or refute this information. The Subcommittee on Global Security and International Cooperation of the Supreme Council Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine carefully examines the activities of the Ukrainian Special Services in ensuring international security and image of Ukraine. So they have to say that the events of the last few weeks have had a serious impact on Ukraine’s international authority and raise a number of serious questions about the effectiveness of its power structures. As it is known, on February 18, 2011, in Ukraine, while driving from Kharkiv to Kiev, a Palestinian citizen, Diar Musa Abu-Sisi, who also has refugee status, disappeared. The next day after his disappearance, he was imprisoned in Israel. Abu Sisi's wife, Ukraine, claimed Israeli intelligence was involved in this disappearance. She thinks Mossad was interested in information about the power plant her husband was working on, as we can stop her work. At the same time, the Ukrainian Security Service did not comment or comment on this information as to whether or not Ukrainian intelligence was involved. The Ministry of Internal Affairs states that the requests or referrals by the competent authorities of third States to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the detention in Ukraine of Abu-Sisi for further transport abroad have not been received. The Ministry of Internal Affairs also adds that the internal affairs authorities of Ukraine did not delay this citizen, and for the search of Abu Sisi, a special composition of the internal affairs bodies of Ukraine, border and customs posts, checks were carried out on the existing accounts of the militia, medical facilities, hotels, etc. This report came after Israel officially admitted to keeping Abu Sisi in prison in its territory. At the same time Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Azarov in an interview with the newspaper." He said that he would not want it to be found that Israeli security forces had kidnapped a Palestinian citizen from Ukraine. This raises questions about the role of our special services in protecting Ukraine’s national sovereignty. In this case, we've got a complete chain of activity of Ukrainian intelligence services, a lack of information on work in Ukraine's territory of foreign intelligence services from intelligence channels, counter-intelligence, diplomatic sources, BSI, IMF, State Border Service. Suggestions. First. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must declare a note of protest. The other one. Report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the reports of the heads of intelligence, counter-intelligence, SBU, MFZ, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the abduction of Palestinian citizen Abu-Sisi Derara Musa Abu-Sisi in Ukraine by foreign intelligence services. Third. The legislative definition of not only tasks but also the responsibility of intelligence, counter-intelligence, SBA, MSS.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u139	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u140	Foreign Service for the Protection of Ukraine’s Sovereignty Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u141	Eugene Marmazov. Get acid ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! On instructions from the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Privatization Council, I would like to draw attention to some of the issues of our business practices, which have a negative impact on many labour groups. I refer to the reimbursement of the value added tax, the unlawful recovery of advance income tax payments from enterprises, and the organization of business audits. [[VAT]] These issues have been raised by the President in this Chamber on several occasions, and the Government has stated that it will keep order, but nothing changes in life. Many working groups are grappling with the arbitrariness of officials. Recently, on 24 March this year, our commission examined the state of compliance by a foreign investor with the terms of the contract for the sale of the Arcelor-Mythall-Croyo Horn stock package. The study showed that the combined commitment was implemented in a timely and fixed manner, both productive and, especially important, economic. The enterprise actively upgrades the core funds, has no arrears to the budget and wages. The average monthly wage per company is almost 4,000 bracelets, and health insurance for each person is brought to 30,000 bracelets per employee per year. For factory workers, 4 houses were built on 416 apartments and a clinic for 600 visits per day. This is despite the fact that, at the end of last year, the State owed 3.5 billion bracelets to the company. That's 2.3 billion VAT returns and 1.2 billion grevens -- overpayment of the profit tax. The total debt reaches the salary fund of all employees of the enterprise for a year and a half. And it's three times that in the last year. The VAT debt – listen to this – amounts to 45 per cent of the country's total debt. At the same time, businesses have literally been plagued by endless checks. Last year there were 591 checks. [[40 per cent higher than in previous years]] Well, close attention to the work of this largest enterprise will be explained. We will recall how it was privatized. A foreign investor is said to be the eye of the State and society behind such a large unique enterprise. But not in the same way. Moreover, no serious violations have been identified in the verifications. There is a need for order in this matter. With regard to VAT reimbursement, the illegal practice of obtaining advance payments on income tax, even in a very difficult situation in the economy, has resulted in a multi-thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u143	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u144	multi-thousand groups, especially enterprises that are of particular importance to the country and correctly fulfil their obligations to the State, are not allowed. You can't ignore what you're saying. Investment attractiveness of Ukraine. Please consider my statement as a request by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u145	Kiselev is handing over Popescu. He's next, six minutes. Then Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u146	Thank you. Thank you, Vasil Alexiovich. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. As a national deputy of Ukraine, I was approached by the residents of the Romanian villages of the Tachiv region: Lower Apsha, Kodišor, Topčino, Deep Stream, Great Bogusz, Little Bogusz, Carbunest, Pestre, Deepwater Village Head Vasili Buga, Ballship Head Mihai Dan, and Secretary of the Gentle-Apshen Silrad Alexander Borko on behalf of appropriate village councils asking to contribute to the preserved hospital in the village of Lower Apsha. As a result of the study of the situation, it was found that the village had a district hospital of 1520 km [1520 km]. The distance from the Rakhiv-Teachy route makes it difficult to get the population of these villages to other health facilities in the area and the area, which are mostly children of about seven thousand and about six thousand older people. The distance to the district’s medical facilities in remote hamlets and corners is more than 40 kilometers [40 km]. Thus, the operation of the Lower Abshana District Hospital helps to bring the health care of the population closer. I am informing you that the Romanian community of the Tachiv region has not applied to the higher facilities for the preservation of the hospital with its status, as it is the only hospital that serves the Romanian population of the region, and its representatives, apart from the Ukrainian language, also speak the Romanian language of the inhabitants of the village. It should be noted that during these appeals, the Health Administration of Zacarpathian District Administration, led by Mr. Schnitzer, sent a commission to a departmental hospital to study a situation that, unfortunately, gave a superficial consideration to the appeal and did not even want to hear all the suggestions made by doctors and medical personnel, failed to take into account the decision of the Lower Apshan, Deepwater and Topchinian Rural Councils, and also ignored the decision of the session of the Tachiv district council to preserve the premises of hospitals in the area of the area concerned. On the basis of the above, I am addressing the Ukrainian Minister of Health, the head of the Zacarpathian District Administration, to take appropriate measures to preserve the district hospital in the village of Apsha in the number of 20 beds that has existed since 1946. In doing so, I would like to take three points into account: there is one of the highest birth rates in Ukraine, so it is necessary not only to preserve the maternity ward but also to upgrade the medical equipment. The other one. The high professional level of doctors and health workers is confirmed by the accreditation of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. Third. According to article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine, there can be no reduction in the existing network of public and municipal health institutions. I remind everyone that the norms of the Constitution are the norm of direct action. Please consider this part of my speech to be a parliamentary request. Dear colleagues, I would also like to inform the inhabitants of the region of Czerniewice that I had a telephone conversation with the head of the district government, Zagaryuk Mikola Grigorovitch, who assured me that the need for repairs of bridges in the villages was needed. Karapčil and Teriblech, as well as the emergency section of the Karpči-Kupka road and the search for sources of funding, are on his personal control. I announce this in the order of informing the electorate who addressed me with appropriate questions during the personal reception, while in the constituency. I also draw the attention of the head of the district education department in the region of Chernobyl, Michael Baure, to the need to provide answers to the requests made by the people's deputies personally and in full. I have to say that, unfortunately, in the letter received under Mrs. Tarangul's signature, I have never received an answer regarding the specific employment of every member of the S.H.I.E.L.D. Political speculation is about to begin. So I'm asking the head of the appropriate district administration, Mr. Baure, to give the full answer to my parliamentary appeal for further voter information and an end to speculation about this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u147	Yes, please, Xenia Leapina. Get ready for Argentinus.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u148	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear voters, we have heard a great deal about reforms in recent days. Unfortunately, it's just conversation. We heard about the investment reform, we heard in the President's report yesterday that it refers to the progress of regulatory reform in Ukraine last year to some success. I want to look at what's actually going on with the entrepreneurial investment climate in Ukraine. And as far as progress in regulatory reform is concerned. First. Free system. This is what worries us today from a great investor to a small entrepreneur who wants to open or place his own label. In the last year, we have adopted, indeed, many changes to various laws. As a result of these changes today, the system would have to work if only through a single office, only through a permissive centre could an appropriate application be made and automatically obtained a suitable permit. And if you didn't get it at the right time, start your work without a paper called "license" and actually don't take any responsibility for it, because it's a responsibility from the authorities. It looks very beautiful in law and on paper. On paper, the whole country is covered with the only offices. It is virtually impossible to find them in life. All entrepreneurs unanimously say that to go to the only office with any meaningful permission absolutely meaningless. They go straight as they always did to the veterinary service. And you know that yesterday there was information that the high-ranking officials of the veterinary service were detained for corruption, and they had little or much in two weeks, $400,000 for arbitrary activity. This is the weight of permissive activity in which reform takes place only on paper. I am reporting this especially to President Yanukovic and Prime Minister Azarov to draw attention to what is not enough to write. Their function is executive, and we, the legislators, have passed the law, and they have to ensure that it is enforced. If this is not ensured, it should not be called reform. It's just self-deception. The same is true in the field of control. On many occasions we have heard the intentions and even reports of a decrease in the workload on small businesses by controlling authorities. What do we hear from entrepreneurs? Pressure's rising. It grows every day. The number of tests is increasing and their quality is increasing, referring to them, in a mild sense, as a way out of process by all control bodies. And it's not the same thing as the laws, because we've settled it well. It is the same responsibility of the executive authority to force its perpetrators to obey Ukraine’s laws at last. And what I'm saying is, you don't have to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u149	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u150	on paper. The real fight against corruption lies in the executive organs. And until they realize it, until they have to attribute it to themselves as a small victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u151	Stanislaw Arzewittin, get ready for Laszka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u152	A group of members of the Supreme Council of three factions asked the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Secretary-General of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, with a parliamentary request for action to halt the proliferation of unreliable information on the state of the banking system in Ukraine. The MP's request is about mass distribution in electronic and printed media, the publications "50 Ukrainian banks will close within six months" and "50 banks will cease to exist in the next six months," and it is emphasized that Ukrainian banks are now at risk of failing to fill their statutory capital. The widespread information is not true, since according to the Law of Ukraine it is stipulated that banks created to take effect by this law are obliged to make their statutory capital in accordance with the requirements of the law within five years. That is, the increase in statutory capital to 120 million dollars is due to be secured by June 2016. The scale, manner and content of the dissemination of information give reason to believe that a planned action is being carried out to destabilize nearly a third of the Ukrainian banks in operation. This action can result not only in undermining the financial situation of these banks but also instigating a new wave of panic among investors, destabilizing Ukraine’s banking system, which can lead to social upheaval and public protests. An analogy of such actions in its time was the spread of unreliable information about the financial situation of Prominestbank, which created a panic among its investors and essentially caused the beginning of a financial crisis in Ukraine in 1928. There are other facts about the distribution of unreliable information about the situation of individual banks, which are also provocative. In their publications, the authors refer to the National Bank’s decision, but the time in commercial banks is five more years. Thus, the investors of these banks have been misled about the state of their partner bank, and banks themselves are at risk of destabilizing their business if their investors, on the advice of the authors of such publications, take urgent measures to protect their savings and in mass order seek their return. The distribution of this provocative information poses a direct threat to Ukraine’s economic and financial security. That is why a group of national deputies made an appeal to investigate the facts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u153	Oleg Lazko. Get ready for Samilak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u154	Dear fellow citizens, Ukraine is preparing for the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl AES tragedy, and three important Chernobyl measures will take place in Kiev from 19 to 21 April 2011. It's a Kiev summit on the safe and innovative use of nuclear energy, a donor conference on fundraising for the completion of Chernobyl projects, an International Conference on Science and Practice "25 Years of Chernobyl Disaster", "Security of the Future". As previously stated, the president of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso, intends to come to Kiev and take part in these Chernobyl actions. This is not just good news for Western and Ukrainian participants who want to raise an additional 720 million euros to complete the Chernobyl projects. This is also good news for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Why? Ukraine is conducting complex negotiations with the European Union on the conclusion of an Association Agreement, which will include the establishment of a free trade zone between Ukraine and the European Union. In 2011, we have to conclude all negotiations with the EU and finally sign the Association Agreement. To this end, I call on Parliament's leadership to invite Mr Barroso to the opening address on 18 or 19 April 2011 from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the theme "The relationship between Ukraine and the EU and the prospects for the conclusion of the negotiations." We need to hear what Parliament has to do to speed up the conclusion of Ukraine's negotiating process with the European Union. We need to hear what preferences Ukraine will get from creating a free trade zone with the European Union. By the way, Mr. Barroso's possible speech in the Supreme Council will help me to restore the influence of the State's legislative body on important foreign political processes, because we need an international dialogue not only at the level of the Supreme Council's Head, but also the deputies of all factions and groups that should be more active in international activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u155	Yes, Katherine Samuel. Now let's see what we've got down there. The next one will be Paul’s instead of Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u156	Dear citizens of Ukraine! There is no week before the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to support Ukraine’s agricultural sector. It seems that the village and the peasants should have been the richest in the long-adopted legislation, and quality food products have become available to everyone in Ukraine. And in fact, it turns out that it's all butaphoric, ossaming, and it's a big account of the process of turning peasants into locusts, slaves on the one hand, and prosperity, enriching a new class of latifundists or fists. A painful question is the price of milk. The cow, as it has repeatedly been and is the only source of survival for the peasant family. People ask us the question: To limit the celibacy of mediators, the state should adjust the price of milk. It can't be cheaper than water, cheaper milk powder. This is no longer the way to destroy and humiliate peasants who feed the nation, depriving them of their work. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I think, is enough to abuse the patience of peasants. You're all so passionate about a business based on the exploitation of our compatriots. Why are you neglecting those who feed both the family and the whole state? Let's find out and remember that if a peasant "takes the pitchfork" there will be no stone left of Maidan. Therefore, we require urgent consideration of the question of milk prices and do not need to be covered by the answers that the executive authorities decide these matters on the spot. There's a hard vertical, here's the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and let them handle these issues. Next, a land question. Recently, early in the morning, we watched films of Olga Kobilian's Earth. This is the tragedy that awaits us if the words of earth’s reforms become reality and when our people practically give up the earth for nothing. We now know from Tavria that not only citizens of Ukraine but also foreigners already own the land. What will be left of the peasant today? How was 100 years ago with a breath, a hair? And if you're lucky, with a horse and an old moped. And the restoration of the village does not mean that we should sell the land. These are affordable loans for fuel, soy materials, fertilizer, and technology. It's the restoration of the irrigation system, it's support for domestic agriculture, it's a program for the social recovery of peasants. There is no need for much reason to trade the earth! Only the temporary ones on earth are capable of trading the earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u157	Thank you, thank you, Catherine Seed! Please, Andrew Pavlovsky, prepare for Snail, then Ostipane.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u158	Andrey Pavlowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block - Fatherland. Dear fellow countrymen, Janukovic sent empty words to the Ukrainian community yesterday, empty sentences, although our society needs answers to urgent questions. Simple people want to know how they can survive right now, when prices continue to rise in a frenzy for what they need -- food, utilities. We have not heard the answers to these questions. And you didn't hear the President's response, why doesn't the government implement the Pay for Work Act? Why is he manipulating a single tariff network, resulting in the failure of all budget holders to get at least 300 dollars? And qualified teachers, doctors who don't pay 700 or 800 bucks or more. Since April 1, the minimum wage is 960 dollars. And the first fare for breaking the law is 625, the difference is 335. And I'd like to give you an example of a teacher in a higher category. Now the government of Azarov pays him 1,325 dollars of basic salary. Although this salary must be from April 1, 2035, the difference is 710 bracelets do not reach qualified teachers. Doctors too. The surgeon in the upper category now has a salary of 1512 bracelets, has to receive 2,323 bracelets under the Act of Pay for Work, and the difference is 811 bracelets. The government of Azarov robs each budget officer of such sums. I'd like to say that they continue to abuse working pensioners. In the calculation of pensions for retired workers, contrary to the law, the authorities apply the average wage in 2007 -- 1198 dollars. Although it's supposed to be the average for the previous year, for 2010, that's 2239 dollars. Thus, every pensioner working today is robbed by at least 1,041 bracelets. And that's not enough for them. Now in the Supreme Council, a bill that essentially restricts or completely eliminates the social benefits and benefits of 16 categories of citizens, starting with black people, Afghans, participants in combat and ending with militias, miners and so on. Your Honor, the time has come to protect your interests. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u159	Thank you. Sergey's horapist. Prepare the Master.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u160	Respectable voters, respectable Adam Ivanovich! On 12 April this year, the whole world will mark an event that opened a new page in the history of mankind. For the first time in the world, a space shuttle, the East, was taken into orbit with a man on board. Earth's first space pilot was a citizen of the USSR, Communist Yuri Gagarin. This remarkable event took place 16 years after the victory of the Soviet people over the Fascist Germany. Western experts have prophesied that the USSR will take 20 years to restore pre-war economics, but the Soviet people not only revived the destroyed economy but also took the lead in the development of outer space. We have become first because the Soviet State, since its first years of existence, has in fact put the development of science and education among its priorities. The country was able to rely on the work of our great compatriot, Ciolkovsky. His teaching was developed in an orderly manner through the activities of the King, Keldish, Deaf, many hundreds and thousands of engineers and designers, technicians and workers. The USSR was the first to break into space because it raised millions of dedicated men and girls ready for a patriotic feat in the name of the Fatherland. In this environment, Yuri Gagarin was brought up. He, a child of the peasant family, could not have been given much by the royal Russia and the present timeless, but Juré was happy to be born in the Soviet country. At the age of 23, he was the world’s best fighter fighter, MiG, and at the age of 27, he became the world’s first cosmonaut. The fate of Yuri Gagarin is the brightest example of what the richest opportunities for personal realization have been created in the USSR. The high aspirations of the Soviet people and their support for socialism have enabled the dream of outer space to be realized. Ukraine's contribution to the Soviet victory should not be forgotten. On these days, there is a 60-year anniversary of the legendary South Bureau of Design. In early 1961, the first specialized units on space were established in the South KB. On 16 March 1962, the space-based DS2 number 1 missile was launched and launched into orbit by the Earth's artificial satellite. The first “South” spacecraft, officially known as “Cosmos-1” developed in KB, began to function and became the primary in the implementation of the Soviet space research programme “Cosmos”. Over the course of 40 years, over 70 types of spacecraft have been developed jointly with the cooperation of KB South, and 15 space-level complexes have been put into operation, and some 400 space-based self-development devices have been launched in orbit. On behalf of the Communist faction, I would like to congratulate the entire South Group of the KGB on their anniversary. You are the pride of the country! Stay the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u161	Thank you. Uljana Mistpane. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u162	Dear voters! Going out to this rostrum made me turn to the elderly, who have been disbelieving in the courts for months or years, defending their rights to legal social benefits. The laws of Ukraine, which provide for much higher social benefits for children of war, Chernobyl, military, and pensioners, have long become effective, and are effectively subject to underaccounting. Practice shows that in Ukraine a court decision is more important than the laws of Ukraine. Then our pensioners went to court. And these are the men of honor that the state has run in a great court of law. It is good that some of them still have the strength. That's exactly the kind of weak people the state is going to be saving. They really do, these people who have gone to court are getting some payments, and all the others with the legislation are not getting any copies. In addition, these, again, weak people are made by lawyers, notaries who are writing them out and taking 300 or 500 dollars for it. What's going on? What's going on? It turns out that by saving the state budget, we again abuse our people. I'm going to stop at one more problem, the pensioner, who's also taking court turns. These are the recalculations of pensions for working retirees who are misappropriated by the average salary for 2007 which reduces the average pension by 400 dollars in each case. The number of such appeals to the court is increasing rapidly. And the reason is the incorrect application of article 40 of the Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". In recent times, legislative changes in the Administrative and Procedural Code have led to another test for humans. The change in the subject of such a category of cases greatly complicates citizens’ rights to appeal to a court. And what I'm saying is that if people had been compensated in three years before they were brought to court, they could now receive that compensation in just six months. And if you look at the decisions of the courts that are now coming out, it turns out that they're getting compensation, but then the compensation isn't spreading for months. That's how court decisions are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u163	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u164	laws, that is, greater rights than the law. I would like my address today to be a parliamentary appeal to Deputy Prime Minister of Social Policy Tihypek Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u165	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Behind him is Ivan the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin. Dear fellow countrymen, I want to raise the problem of environmental pollution across Ukraine. All over Ukraine, what happens is that it gets dirt in the trash. The executive authorities do not monitor what is happening on the roads. Unfortunately, my legislative initiatives on this increase in responsibility are blocked in Parliament and not brought to the attention of the session. I also want to raise the problem of environmental pollution in the Odessa region. For example, about 7 years of Bilgorod-Dnistrovský liman is polluted by the sewers of the village of Shabo, a permanent accident, including recently, in March 2011, has led to a significant deterioration in the quality of drinking water. [[White Mountain area]] There is a real threat of infectious diseases. By a decision of the Bilgorod-Dniestrov District Council of May 11, 2007, Shabska silrada allocated 1 million 800,000 dollars to the construction of clean-up facilities at the expense of the environmental environmental environmental protection fund. A tender was held, and the winner was the State Department of Odessacomecology, with which a contract was made for the construction of clean buildings. However, the contracting party did not sign acts of work in the amount of 528, 3,000 dollars due to disagreement over the amount and number of jobs performed. Work was simply not done. As a result of the inspections and the detection, indeed, of the inadequacy of these works by the Belgrade-Dniestrovska Procuratorate in 2008, a criminal case was brought against the head of the Capital Building Department of Bilgrad-Dniestrovska Paradise Lukyanchuk and in 2009 against the director of the state-owned enterprise Maksimovic. But the case is blocked, not investigated. As a result, please consider my request to the Attorney General, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Minecology for order. Another problem that excites voters today is that now, in particular, April 5th, I have been informed that, without any reason, the decommissioned, virtually decommissioned market of the Dniprovsky district of Kiev. As a result of these events, 200 entrepreneurs, market workers, are deprived of their earnings, which is unacceptable and does not meet the requirements of the above-mentioned Constitution rules, which are provided for 6, 19, 41, 42, 43 of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to the Civil Code, such things can be dismantled and eliminated only on the basis of article 325, but such things are happening throughout Ukraine. That is why I am asking the Prime Minister, the Attorney General of Ukraine, to address the situation. Consider it my request and avoid mistreatment of small businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u167	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u168	I'm done. During these three months, small entrepreneurs in Ukraine decreased by 250,000. Think about it! Let's multiply by two. That's half a million. They also engaged other workers. So let us not let those who feed and fill the pension fund be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u169	Thank you. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u170	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Party. President Viktor Janukovic delivered the Annual Message yesterday in Parliament. Again, there were many words about reforms. It turns out that in Ukraine alone. Ukraine is only in the early stages of reforms. What, then, has been done throughout the year by this authority? It was as if there had been no reform, but the wood had been broken down. This is also true of the so - called administrative reform, which referred only to the reduction of government officials, and in fact to the reduction of those people who do not share the ideology of the present authority, who have a very large professional background in such activities. The same can be said of the pension reform that citizens today fear. It was only until the age of retirement and retirement, and it was about that. That fighting the Mafia to get the economy out of the shadow sphere to introduce a doctrine of expensive labor from which the Pension Fund is filled, that's not what our authorities are talking about. She simply wants to put all her concerns on the shoulders of ordinary citizens. Similarly, a few words have to be said about land reform. Parliamentary hearings were held in the Supreme Council. The vast majority of those speaking spoke out against the introduction, the immediate introduction of the earth’s market. They rightly believe that at the present stage it is necessary to build land relations within the lease institution. But our authority is very and very hasty. Why is she in a hurry? Because land is the last resource you can get rich with. Ms. Akimov stated that the land should be purchased not only by Ukrainian citizens but also by foreign nationals. In the same spirit, Mr. President said, "Ensure a level playing field for access to this market is the land market of domestic and foreign owners so that the land is the closest to an effective host." What comes out of that phrase? It turns out that Mr. President doesn't believe in his citizens today, he doesn't believe in our Ukrainian peasant. But if that is the case, then both Mr. President and the government, and the parliamentary majority, have to leave power, because this year they have demonstrated a very inefficient government. Then let's invite foreigners from Western Europe, where the authorities work much more effectively, where the rights of citizens are realized, where there is peace, and they will rule in our Ukraine. But, no, our authority here is not going to let the aliens go to the ground to take over the peasants to take over the territory of Ukraine today, they're capable of it. So this is not a strategically minded authority, this is not an authority that advocates national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-08-m0.u171	All those desiring to do so took the opportunity and took the floor. Let me remind you that the following week, national deputies work on committees, commissions, factions, and groups. On April 13th, Wednesday at 3 p.m., a parliamentary hearing will be held in the Supreme Council session hall on the theme "On State policy to address the problem of return and compensation for the lost, undervalued savings of citizens." The plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, April 19, at 10 a.m. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
