ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Yes, there is a procedure for the registration of national deputies. [[10:01:26]] The 407 National Deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, today the birthday of our colleagues, Ukrainian National Deputies Alexander Olegovich and Anatoly Ivanovich. Please welcome the people’s deputies and wish them success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from February 15 to 18, 2011. There were five plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Seventy-nine issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 17 laws and 9 regulations were passed, 10 bills were adopted on the basis of which 6 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, 20 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals, 2 laws have been passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 1 law is aimed at furthering the committee, 3 laws have been rejected. 119 parliamentary inquiries were announced. Dear National Deputies, yesterday during the Conciliation Council meeting and during a meeting with the faction leaders to discuss the draft Law on Anticorruption, we also discussed issues related to labour discipline. Once again, I am aware of the obligation to register before the opening of the morning and evening meetings at the registration tables. As a result of the registration, the National Deputies will be properly charted. Once again, I call attention to this problem so that there will be no pretenses. That's the first one. And the second. Honorable national MPs and faction leaders, make sure the MPs vote in person. Honorable national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, and reports. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Sergey Pavlovenko, faction of the National Party. Microphone, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Shersun Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u3	Mikola Schershun, faction of the National Party, please. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u4	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head, dear colleagues! Today, I want to draw your attention to the global problem that is now present in many countries of the world, the issue of food security, that is, the country's ability to provide its citizens with food. And our nation still has all the ingredients to play in advance. This is a favourable climate, fertile soil, and huge human potential. A Ukrainian peasant is a smart, caring farmer who knows how and, above all, wants to work. And now our task with you is to create for him all the conditions or, at the very least, not to interfere. Today, Ukraine's agriculture is a sector that, even in the absence of adequate State support, continues to survive. What is more, it shows not large but growth rates. Ironically, however, the biggest problem for a domestic producer today is the lack of markets for the sale of products, especially those grown in agricultural areas. I mean, they're formal, but if you go deeper, the peasant is forced to either give away his own product that doesn't make sense, or he can't sell it at all. That's what this is about. Private entrepreneurs who work for a single tax or for a consumer cooperative can buy farm produce from an ordinary farmer. She's got her own branched system in the country. And for those who can't take their own goods to the market, that's the only way out. So let's say softly, and even private businesses aren't interested in supporting peasants, because the main thing is to buy cheaper and sell more expensive ones. But they do not go everywhere, but where they are comfortable and convenient. Instead, consumer co-operation has the capacity to accept and store agricultural products and agree to pay for goods at market prices. But because of today’s tax legislation, it is simply not convenient for her to do so. Because once the VAT is paid when the goods are delivered at full cost, it goes to the end consumer, which means that you and I are with you at too high, uncompetitive prices. To help a peasant and not to work for himself, a consumer cooperative offers to pay a tax at the added cost only on an undetermined price rather than on the full cost of the product. Then the price of agriculture will fall, which is now artificially high. This will not reduce the budget, but will increase, as tax pressure will increase the circulation. This will help create new jobs in the countryside, and then partially solve the socio-economic problems of the Ukrainian peasant. Another problem is bureaucratic. A regular grandmother needs passports, identification codes, and many other documents to be supplied to a consumer cooperative. Older people find this difficult to understand, and data is provided for special purchases, from which information is taxed. And then when this grandmother wants to get a subsidy, a compensation for utilities or buy wood, they refuse to do so because the incomes of the citizens from agricultural production are included in the total income. That's why there's a shadow market here where the sales contracts aren't officially published, because if you do it like it says, the villagers will be out of help and with the products they'll buy for nothing. So if you look at this situation from the side, it's like we're artificially putting obstacles to our peasants, and they're not asking for any preferences anymore, because in this situation, they're going to have to be okay with it. Then you and I will be at our supermarkets buying, not Polish meat, potatoes, not Dutch tomatoes, but Ukrainian natural food. The National Party faction draws the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers to this important problem and requires the initiation of appropriate legislative changes. Finally, together, we can do a good thing for our peasants, which means for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u5	Simonenko is Peter Mikolaiovich, a faction of Communists. Ruslan Knazevich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! The people of Ukraine are actively forced to believe that the land must be a commodity. I am convinced that there is no doubt that the land is a strategic national resource that ensures the economic and food security of the country. We Communists are also convinced that the free market for agricultural land is not in Ukraine's national interest. And following the recipes of the International Monetary Fund will lead to our land's debt to this structure, our people's wealth will go away from the hammer. A strong example of this is Argentina, where, as a result of IMF reforms, various “facilitators” of soros and rockefellers have driven from peasant lands and turned Argentina into a food-genomodified food production site, which, among other things, is actively exported to Ukraine. [[& Tiles]] On the turn of the IMF, Ukraine has 25 per cent of the world's black stocks. What does foreign experience say? In all developed countries, even in spite of the market economy, there are severe restrictions on the sale and use of land. For example, in Germany a ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year-year-old ten-year-year-old ten-year-year-year-year-old ten-year-year-year-year-old In France, it has been prohibited to sell land for 12 years since its acquisition, in Spain, 10-12 years, in Italy, 30 years. In Israel, 90 per cent of agricultural land is owned by the State. In recent years, for example, Sweden has preferred to sell land for rent. And there are already threats and real, over 11 million hectares of land in Ukraine, a third of the entire land fund, already controlled by 3,000 foreign firms. On that basis, we Communists believe that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should consider and adopt, as soon as possible, a national programme for the restoration of a village whose cornerstone will be State ownership to the ground, first of all. Secondly, we invite pie owners to join large cooperative farms, to pool not only their own pies, but also their technical, financial and intellectual resources. The State must promote and support such a cooperative movement in every way. Third. It is necessary to introduce a monopolies to trade in grains abroad, and the State must purchase at world prices a reserve, such as a grain, which is not intended to be sold for export. And unlike grain traders now, it's 10-15 structures, in monopolistic conspiracies, it buys grain from the peasants by 1,000 bracelets per tonne, and it sells three hundred dollars and more, and the rest goes into its pocket. Fourth. The State must first ensure that the village of Ukraine is high-quality and affordable with mineral fertilizers and then sell for export through both economic and administrative measures. Fifth. We propose the next mechanism for the State to provide our agriculture with fuel at a real and stable price. In Ukraine, approximately 5 million tons of oil is extracted. Once it's processed in our factories, we have 4 million -- 2.6 million -- we can give it to the villagers, and 1.4 million tons will provide fuel infrastructure: schools, hospitals, clubs. Sixth. Villages must be provided, as should the real economy, with long and cheap loans of 3-5 per cent per year. To that end, it was necessary to accept the proposals made by the Company's faction for consideration by the Supreme Council. Seven. Particular attention should be paid to the production of domestic agricultural machinery, especially where tractors are concerned. I'd like to give you a fascinating example. [[& Tiles]] HTZ produced 50,000 tractors a year in Soviet times, and 30,000 people worked. Today, 200 tractors are produced every year and 3,000 people work. This is the national policy that has been pursued during these years of independence, the so-called slump national patriots. And more. To those who do not want to do agriculture but want to sell their pie, the State must provide such an opportunity through the establishment of a state land fund, at the market price of the pie-owners, selling it to the State and to us all. The State no longer sells but transfers the land into use. Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Human wisdom says, “in other people’s food and taste,” so let us, as we offer the Communists, not live according to the direction from abroad, but with our minds and for the benefit of our country, our people. We must protect our country today, we must preserve today's largest economic potential, and thus ensure the country's food security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u7	The word is Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Get ready for Kamchatno.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u8	The distinguished people of Ukraine, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the time to scatter stones in the form of re-election promises and various declarations has passed. Now is the time to lay the stones. But there doesn't seem to be anyone else to put together. The country has suffered in the past year. Both the President and the Cabinet of Ministers are personally responsible for what is happening today in the development of the country. We consider it necessary to resign the current Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Look at what's going on! During the year, this government was not even able to submit government programs to Parliament. During the year, there were only discussions about some incomprehensible reforms. What reforms the government has not really submitted to Parliament and is operating without a program. In 2011, Prime Minister Azarov officially announced that the State's socio-economic development programmes for 2011 were not in place. They don't know what to do. But I'm not just going to talk about this year, but I'm going to talk about last year. Look at the characteristics of official statistics. Last year, government external debt rose by almost 40 percent. If every Ukrainian was owed $868 last year to creditors, a baby born in a maternity home would now owe $1,200. Look at prices and tariffs. Official statistics show that prices rose by 10 percent last year. But there's statistics on life: the cost of potatoes -- plus 70 percent, the cost of famous Greek -- plus 100 percent, the cost of flour -- plus 70 percent, the cost of living in a two-bedroom apartment in Donetsk, or in Kiev -- plus 50 percent. Gas. It was a story and an illustration in the tongues of last year. We've had an incredible fall. A discount in exchange for the territory of Ukraine and for the Ukrainian statehood. Britain did not give up its territory. But the price of gas in Britain from Russia's Gazprom last year was $191. Here's official statistics. Ukraine bought 250 gas last year. This year we expect a cost of $300, because the current government has not been able to change the gas formula. He's taking loans in the United States to give these loans to Russia's Gazprom. We need to stop drugging the Russian Gazprom Corporation. Let's move on. Unemployment. The number of official and hidden unemployment reaches two million Ukrainians. After you adopted the famous Tax Code, the registration of business subjects decreased by 60 percent. Every third job will be closed in a month on the market because your Tax Code will cancel the simplified tax system. Let's move on. Corruption. The fight against corruption has turned into a fight for corruption. Who will lead it and how strong it will be? I want to say hello to the authorities. You won this war. Let's move on. Administrative reform. You told the whole country about the cuts in ministries and officials. I'll only speak numerals. Before the administrative reform, there were 49 ministries and central executive bodies. Today, 72. All your reforms have turned into high prices, tariffs, higher retirement age, unemployment, 12 and a half million Ukrainians who are out of poverty, and 5 million Ukrainians who don't even have money to buy food. But this year you've increased the cost of the President's Administration and all power by 5 billion dollars. Where is your conscience, and where are your election promises? I address all factions. I just heard the opposition rhetoric of the Communists. Sign a decree on a resolution of mistrust by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Anyone who does not sign it is personally responsible for what is happening in the country. Now it's about the work of the power vertical. The unique vertical of power. The President's mandate is to make a law to the Kabmin, to prepare laws, and to transfer it to the Supreme Council, where most are also controlled by the President, the Supreme Council adopts this law in order to carry out the President's mandate and the government, sends it to the President, and -- pay attention! – The president promises this bill. Your vertical power has turned into an absurd power. Order up! It's about Parliament's work. Of the 113 bills promised by the President regarding reforms, only one was passed last year — the famous Tax Code. Every Tuesday and Thursday we demand that the Cabinet of Ministers and the President submit these reformist bills if you have them. And last of all, the vote on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Under the Constitution, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to sign orders to enable a modernized "Council" system.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u10	And tomorrow morning, every MP will vote only on his own. Don't look for a black cat in a room that doesn't have one. Turn on the modernized "Race" system and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this proposal was delayed three years ago. And secondly, I invite my colleagues during the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to sit in the session hall and work instead of showing up once a month and giving instructions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Stone Valerius, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Last week's event was the direct communication between President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine and the people, where he announced his intentions to turn 2001 into a year of decisive action and rapid reform. The Reforms for the Future faction claims to support this position and supports reforms not only at the legislative level, but insists that everyone be actively involved in this process. In tactical terms, rapid and clear legislative provisions will provide the necessary irreversible process for reforms, and strategically, they will allow people to believe in the future. Only those who do nothing are not wrong. Evidence of this is the world’s experience, examples of great politicians, such as Gouver, Roosevelt, who at one time in the Great Depression have found opportunities to carry out decisive reforms and bring their country out of the crisis. An example of this is those countries in Europe that had only dreamed of joining the European Community 20 years ago, and today are setting the tone for the political and economic development of Europe. They have long transformed radical reforms, primarily land-based, pensionable ones. Our country is only approaching these challenges, certainly unpopular at the first stage, but vital to the economic development of the country. There are many similar problems. We can also mention the land reform that was mentioned in one of the factions in today's talk about, we can mention administrative and territorial reform and many others. But what's important is that in carrying out these reforms, there was a minimal negative impact, first of all, on socially vulnerable populations. With great potential, Ukraine has so far been dependent on promises and the transformation of these promises. No one has ever done this before in our power: quickly and decisively move from word to word. Today, in our country, you and I have a unique chance, today the President of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine have real opportunities to prove that words are one thing and concrete and decisive things are another. So our "Reforms for the Future" faction urges all colleagues in Parliament, opposition, coalition, most to come together in this difficult time for the country and move quickly and decisively forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u13	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, I think scary, coming back strange stories happen. This stands out as a person who, over the course of five years, has destroyed our country, who has broken down its faction, and now suddenly positions himself as a leader of the state and tries to teach someone else. But isn't that funny, colleagues? On 25 February 2010, the inauguration of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Januković, opened a new page in the history of our State. For those who are prone to unbiased analysis, especially for previous speakers, I recall the starting point at which the new power began to function. The economic indicators with which we received the country at the beginning of 2010 were threatening: the budget deficit was 90 billion gross, the pension fund deficit was 40 billion, the drop in GDP was 15 per cent, think of 15 per cent per annum; the almost empty execution, with Ukraine's total debt at the beginning of 2009, exceeding 300 billion bracelets; almost twice the rate of the bracelet had been reduced; the most popular in rhetoric at that time were the words “sovereign default” and “economic gap”. [[Dear colleagues, this is your job.]] For what reason did Ukraine find herself in such a difficult situation? The answer is chaos in power, non-professionalism and populism of our predecessors. It is therefore logical that the people of Ukraine have rejected the country's movement to nowhere and have elected Viktor Yanuković, head of State, a leader capable of order and reform, to ensure the protection of Ukraine's national interests in today's world. The past year, despite all the difficulties, proved the rightness of the people's choice. Since the first days of his work, the new President's priority has been to build a strong vertical of power aimed at fulfilling the country's development goals. Under the auspices of the President, a parliamentary majority had been formed within a period of time and had elected a new Government. Literacy management has resulted in a qualitative improvement in the economy. In 2010, GDP increased by more than 4 per cent, industrial production by 11, double reduction of the Pension Fund, the Government restored the confidence of citizens in the financial system of the State, stability of the bracelet, and a solid foundation for social and economic reforms. The modernization of the country requires reliable work on the verticality of power as a basic tool for reform. Improving the effectiveness of the State machinery, including the real fight against corruption, is what the President described as a priority in 2011. An administrative reform was a logical step in that direction for the head of State. It is intended to establish an effective management system from the central authorities to the regional and local authorities. The Supreme Council has an important role to play. It is already this week that we have to adopt the System Act on Anti-Corruption of Corruption introduced by the Head of State. Practice has shown that the government model that has been in place since 2004 has proved to be weak, unable to achieve a stable development of the country, and therefore Ukraine has returned to the 1996 Constitution. In the continuation of constitutional reform, the President supported the initiative to establish a constitutional assembly with the task of drafting a new basic law. Work on the improvement of the Constitution should unite rather than separate society. Economic reforms have received strong impetus with the adoption of the Budget Code, particularly the Tax Code. For the first time, such an important document was adopted after a broad and thorough discussion. The process of adopting the Tax Code has shown that we are ready to engage in an honest dialogue with the people on the methods and purposes of modernizing the country, and in this respect, we are committed to the success of reforms. Yes, the Tax Code is not ideal, but its adoption has been a decisive step during the reform period. It should be noted, however, that the Code is an undisturbed dogma, and the authorities are prepared to adjust its rules, which in practice have not proved to be effective enough, including with regard to the functions and powers of the tax service. Dear People's Deputies, during a direct conversation with the country, the President called on society to build a new Ukraine together. Today, we stand at the beginning of the path of reform. Let us unite our efforts, walk this path and ensure a decent future for our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u15	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko of the Faction “BUT – Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome the principle position of the leadership of "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense", which has joined not only in criticism but in a consistent fight against the government's activities. You know, on October 18, we started collecting signatures for the resignation of the government of Azarov. Unfortunately, that's when we collected 107 signatures of "The Fatherland" and 11 of "Our Ukraine," signed by the People's Movement and "The People's Self-Defense." Sadly, the faction’s leadership at that time did not support us. But six months later, our colleagues realized that this was a government activity that could not be supported. So, friends, welcome to the opposition, we've already waited for you. I wanted to draw attention to the situation that has taken place today in the social and humanitarian sphere, because at the rate of rising food prices, transport services, housing services, that's less said. If you analyze a year under the power of the President and the government, it seems that the main state of power is the dizziness of success. Many authorities, appreciating this year, say that the new authorities have done more in a year than they have in the last five years. And by many parameters, my friends, that is, indeed, yes. For example, some 900 schools have been closed in the past five years, and the new authorities want to close more than a thousand schools this year. The Odessa region alone declared that 64 schools should be closed immediately. During this year, a massive closure of hospitals, health facilities that had not been taken in five years, begins. I would like to point out that Presidential candidate Viktor Janukovic has promised that 2,000 small schools will never close when he becomes President. I have a question: why does the government do this equally? The president promised 2,000 not to close, and the government wants to close in a year. Today, the Ministry of Education said it would reduce the budget order to 42 percent. I recall Presidential candidate Viktor Janukovic said he would provide 75 percent of the budget. So this is equal to the opposite of what the President said. Today we have absolutely unacceptable things when, for the first time in history, we have Olympic training based that said they're going to be priorities, people don't get two months' wages. I was approached by a working group of the Olympic School Sports Center, one of the best in Ukraine: they don't get a salary for two months. Guys, this is the kind of success this year. Today, we have become hostages of a great minister, apparently appointed in another capital, not only to shorten the government’s order but to settle the scholarships. He says we're not paying our scholarships on time, but he's gathering some student council right now and he's offering to take out the scholarships as a fact. [[I don't know who's going in there.]] Well, we live a lot, leave scholarships, say ministry officials, the most intelligent, and we won't pay the rest. I'm sorry, this cynicism was not allowed by any other official in this country. If these initiatives are followed by an initiative of administrative and territorial reform, and the President has said so, and officials have already said they want to eliminate one third of the rural areas in the areas. So I have a question: we want to destroy the village as a unit. Imagine if in Central Ukraine a third of the rural areas in the area were closed, what educational, social, humanitarian services we could provide. I understand there are problems. Well, if these problems were to be solved in a literate way, let's say. If the school is closed, there must be a decision of the parents, the village council, the district council. Closing school is a national disaster. The Kabin has approved. Then instead of this school, for example, it's going to be an educational center, not a village general. Instead of a rural hospital, there will be a center for the prevention of veterans or pensioners. Then I understand. It's closing today, there's nothing to offer. I'm not talking about what I heard from the officials of the President's Administration that they're going to make the land a commodity from January 1, 2012. We haven't had parliamentary hearings yet, and we've already been decided. So, my friends, I'm convinced that if the authorities continue to build a country for rich people, either for one party or for one region, it's going to end badly. Because trouble is that country where there are non-professionals in power, but the tragedy is that country where government ministers work against their own state. So either we stop this activity against our own state, or society will do it without us.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the performances of the authorized factions have been completed. With regard to the suggestions made in the speeches made by the national deputies, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate referrals and assignments. Dear colleagues! Since we have an increase in the number of subjects in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I mean, new MPs are emerging, we need to go to a certain extent to reduce the time for Tuesdays from factions. The point is, according to the Rules, it takes 30 minutes, three minutes, since we had fewer MPs, we went out for five minutes. So the next Tuesday we're going to be doing four minutes, and the rest of it is for proposals from deputies, for replicas, and so on. I see that there is a desire to express our thinking about the organization of work both by the Kaletnik and by John Kirilenko. I'm asking you, Your Honor, from factions, if there are, let's give it one minute. Yeah? John Kirilenko and Gregory Kaletnik, and then if other factions are willing, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the disgrace that is now in this hall, the holy hall, is already crossing the line. So when we responded to your call to the opening of today’s plenary day, the faction in today’s congregations made a decision: Each vote for himself. [[We spend it every day.]] We end up in this room, we initiate the completion of the work of the millers, a difficult, very painful process, too long in this room, and there's a lot of paperwork. Our faction initiates and refers to every national MP, every political power in this room, let's stop this disgrace so it doesn't spread. From this day forward, we have carried out the Constitution: each vote for himself. We urge everyone to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u19	Ivan Grigorovich, thank you for your support in this regard. Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We support, and we have always voted that way, our faction, always in the greatest number in the Supreme Council, and we still need each other to vote for ourselves. I would also like, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, to ask such a question, there has been some information on the Internet that you can get citizenship in the European Union through a committee headed by Tarasyuk, as if it were following a letter under its signature, that citizens are provided to officials from abroad. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Please give the commission to prepare the information, did the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Euro-Integration of the application of Pożynova, what is the result of the vote? And if such a question has been considered, it will lead to the knowledge of the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u21	Okay. Who else is insisting on the faction? None. Dear colleagues! With regard to Ivan Grigorovich’s offer, we discussed the matter yesterday and agreed on an arrangement, setting up an arrangement: A member obliged to vote for himself. Now we're looking for other administrative possibilities besides financial leverage to get everyone back to work. This morning in the Supreme Council, you see, there were far more national deputies. Dear colleagues! As to the question of whether or not to ask Gregory Kaletnik's appeal, I ask the secretariat to study this question whether it was an initiative directly of the National MP, or whether it was a committee decision. If the committee’s decision was made, on what basis was it made? I think we're going to find out. A replica? Please, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk – the name was called. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u22	Boris Tarasyuk. The National Movement of Ukraine. It was strange for me to listen to my colleague Kaletnik, and I want to say that let him and everyone in the majority in the unconstitutional majority of the Supreme Council -- the government, the President and all the authoritarian powers -- make such conditions in the country that people would not leave the country and ask for political asylum in other countries. That's the first one. The other one. I want to say right away that I don't have to worry about giving this recommendation and writing a letter as a national deputy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u23	Yes, dear colleagues, let us turn to Tuesday’s schedule. We've agreed on a plan for our work. That's why I asked, dear colleagues, that we now begin to work actively. Invite the deputies to the session room, we'll make a decision now. Because it's about getting into the agenda of a series of drafts. Dear colleagues, to the session room, please. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A vote is put to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Ordinance on measures for the implementation by Ukrainian citizens of the constitutional right to land for inclusion in the agenda. [[Registration number 8044]] [[10:41:39]] For 184 The question is not included in the agenda. Please, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, we have agreed to follow the Hall's Discipline Rules. Therefore, I ask you to follow the procedure provided for in part two of article 27, where the chairman’s duties are written. Before the session starts, please indicate who is missing for good reasons and the results of the registration. As far as inclusion is concerned. The Rules contain a procedure to include issues in the approved agenda by making changes to the agenda. This procedure provides for the introduction of a draft Rules for the Approval of the Day Session. So I would ask that this procedure be followed. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we are repeating the same mistake over and over again, voting for inclusion. The draft regulation should be introduced, discussed in a reduced procedure and only then voted a couple in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the final offer is totally accepted. I'd like to ask them to prepare appropriate draft decisions. On Wednesday, we will be discussing the inclusion of such a procedure, although we have discussed these issues at the Conciliation Council and, by the way, there have been no objections to the content of these bills and to the content of these bills. But there's a need for procedural cleanliness here, and I totally agree with you. With regard to the announcement of the results of the registration at the tables, as well as information about people who are absent for important reasons, I ask the secretariat to prepare the necessary information for the announcement to the Ukrainian National Deputies. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act amending Section XX "Transitional Positions" of the Tax Code on the specificity of tax collection for added value from supply and import operations. [[Registration number 8116]] Please vote. [[10:44:20]] For 260 The decision is made. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act on Certain Grain Crops. [[Registration number 8117]] Please vote. [[10:44:51]] For 283 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending Section XX "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code for the organization of activities and the performance of its functions by the Agrarian Fund. [[Registration number 8159]] [[10:45:26]] For 244 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 170, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 1, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 10, communists – 24, "Reforms for the Future" – 13, "The People's Party – 20, non-factional – 6. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act has been announced. [[concerning the manufacture and circulation of veterinary medicinal products]] He reports: Deputy Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food Ms. Trigubenko Sergey Mikolayovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Mr. Grigory Mikolayovich Kalietnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u26	Good afternoon, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u27	Just a minute. Short-circuited? Please, you require, I'll put to the vote the issue of a reduced procedure on your request. [[10:46:52]] For the 220. Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act of 18.11.2010. [[Registration number 7377]] The purpose of the bill is to facilitate the establishment and implementation of farm activities for the production and circulation of veterinary products, as well as the distribution and circulation of tribal animals for the breeding centres of tribal animals of enterprises, associations of tribal affairs, selection centres, selection and selection and hybrid centres, and trades, stations, evaluation of tribal animals. By deleting the bill, veterinary medicine is offered the power to be granted licences. The bill reduces the number of documents of a permissive nature and eliminates duplication of functions. Thus, State control and supervision of the capacity of the production and circulation of veterinary products, as well as the breeding and circulation of tribal animals, will be carried out under the Law on the licensing of certain types of farming activities. Management objects that have been licensed under article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of farming activities have been licensed for the production of veterinary medicines and medicines; wholesale, retail trade in veterinary documents and preparations; trade in tribal genetic resources; and genetic analysis of origin and abnormal animals. No operational permits will be given for the capacity of the objects involved. The adoption of the bill will allow for the simplification of entrepreneurial activities in the relevant spheres and the execution of an order from the President and the Government on the centralization of the permit system. It is suggested that the bill be supported for adoption on the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u29	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, please make the decision of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, while Gregory Mikolaiovich is on his way, I must make one point. I was so hot and in a hurry that I announced my greetings to our colleagues in Leščina and Seminozi today. Probably because they're ready for their birthday, because they're having their birthday tomorrow. I would ask my colleagues to understand how I feel about my fever.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u30	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to simplify entrepreneurial activities in the manufacturing, processing, storage and circulation of veterinary products and reproductive material by reducing the number of duplicate permits. According to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of farming activities, the following activities are subject to licensing: production of veterinary medicines and medicines; wholesale, retail trade in veterinary medicines and medicines; production, storage and implementation of tribal resources; and genetic analysis of consent and animal anomaly. Thus, the areas of regulation defined in article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of farming and article 50 of the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act are similar. With regard to the way in which article 50 "For Veterinary Medicine" has been deleted in the law, we settle this issue with regard to the obligation of operators to obtain an operating permit. The committee unanimously supported the proposed bill and suggested that it be considered in a session of the Supreme Council and accepted as a basis. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also supports this bill. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. Then Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, this bill is one of those bills that really needs to be supported. Any simplification of the procedure, registration, manufacture, agricultural business requires special attention, and especially the direction that applies to tribal affairs, which applies to veterinary medicinal products. We know how much money we're spending today to get a lot of these drugs across the border. As long as they were produced in Ukraine, they cost much cheaper, they were accessible to both the farmer and the farmer, and to the agricultural industry. And what the desire is to do is to re-manufactur the production of veterinary drugs and drugs; wholesale, retail trade in veterinary drugs and drugs; production, storage and implementation of tribal resources; genetic analysis of consent; and anomalies. Thus, the areas of regulation defined in article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of farming and article 50 of the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act are similar. With regard to the way in which article 50 "For Veterinary Medicine" has been deleted in the law, we settle this issue with regard to the obligation of operators to obtain an operating permit. The committee unanimously supported the proposed bill and suggested that it be considered in a session of the Supreme Council and accepted as a basis. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also supports this bill. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. Then Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, this bill is one of those bills that really needs to be supported. Any simplification of the procedure, registration, manufacture, agricultural business requires special attention, and especially the direction that applies to tribal affairs, which applies to veterinary medicinal products. We know how much money we're spending today to get a lot of these drugs across the border. As long as they were produced in Ukraine, they cost much cheaper, they were accessible to both the farmer and the farmer, and to the agricultural industry. And the desire to restore the production of a large number of such drugs in Ukraine can only be hailed. And the second. Tribal work has always been the focus of the agrarian ministry. And if this law, although to some extent helping to restore this good attitude of the ministry, is also to be welcomed. Because today, in fact, tribal work, the work on the herd in Ukraine is on the loose. And there's a lot of flaws here and there's little attention from the state to this important issue, and without that, there's no future in the animal kingdom of Ukraine. The faction supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u35	Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "Fathership," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u36	Vladimir Yavorowski. Julia Timoshenko's block will support this bill. Mrs. Catherine Vaschuk said a lot of things, that's all. Many have said something important, and I must say that this law is very large. It refers, of course, to livestock, first and foremost. And you know what's going on in Ukraine right now, we've lost our heads terribly, including the lack of the same drugs, and so forth. Because of this, the law is usually necessary, but the Yulia Block Timoshenko doubts many of its specific factors, and that is why we will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, who else insists on speaking from factions who have not been given the right to speak? Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt a bill on the basis of which the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act. [[concerning the manufacture and circulation of veterinary medicinal products]] [[Registration number 7377]] [[10:54:58]] For 244 Decision taken. Gregory Mikolaiovich, what do we leave behind for the second reading? What do we leave behind for our second reading? So, dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to this butterfly that proposes to change paragraphs 12 and 13 of the seventh article as well as paragraphs 2 and 3 of article 50 to exclude it. The committee will be working on the second reading? Will we just waste time? If there is no objection from the deputies, let us put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u38	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd like to ask the people's deputies, there's nothing to work on, there's nothing to work on, there's nothing to work on, and there's a bill to be prepared. Therefore, there is a request to support him as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u39	Is there a denial? There's a denial, we can't vote. ( But he denies the MP, he has a right. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the creation and operation of farms. [[Registration number 7512]] The committee also suggests that it be considered in a simplified manner. Yes or no? Yeah? I'm voting on this proposal. [[10:56:43]] For 209 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food, Trigutenko Sergey Mikolayovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Mikolayovich Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your view is on the proposal of a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation and operation of farms. The bill has been drafted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine to simplify the registration of farms and reduce the number of permits. According to the Ukrainian Act on Farming, a person who has shown such a desire is obliged to apply to a professional committee on the creation of farms, whose composition is formed and approved by the District Council, to obtain a corresponding conclusion. The findings of the said Committee on the availability of sufficient experience for citizens in agriculture or the need for agricultural qualifications are a prerequisite for the state registration of the farm and the granting of citizenship to the property or to the lease of the farm for the maintenance of the agricultural land of the state and municipal property. Such legislation complicates and prolongs the registration procedure for farming, since the Commission’s conclusion on the availability of relevant agricultural experience may be subjective. The bill proposes to repeal the requirement for the conclusion of a professional commission to the relevant district public administration or rural, rural, urban councils in the event of a citizen being granted ownership or leased land for farming by excluding article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Farming, which establishes such a rule, and article 118, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Code of Land in part of the requirement for such a conclusion. Thus, it is proposed that the appropriate district commission, administration or local council should be provided with documents that confirm the experience of farming or education at an agricultural school for the purpose of registering the farm in lieu of the findings of the competitive commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u41	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u42	The list of such documents is determined by a special authority authorized by the executive branch in the field of agrarian politics. The adoption of these changes and additions will facilitate the registration of farms, reduce the number of applications for permits and allow more rapid response to possible changes in the reform of Ukraine's agrarian complex. On the basis of what has been said, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u43	Thank you, too. Head of the Agrarian Policy Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Mikolayovich Kaletnik Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The aim of the project is to simplify the procedure for the registration of farms and reduce the number of permits. The bill is also designed to take account of all the proposals made by the All-Ukrainian Social Organization, the Association of Farmers and Private Landowners of Ukraine. The adoption of this law will facilitate the order of state registration of agriculture and the granting or transfer of citizenship to the property or lease of land for farming from the land of public utility according to the Ukrainian Land Code, to Ukrainian legislation. Financial and economic justification is that this law does not require additional expenditure from the State Budget. And so the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations discussed a bill at a meeting involving a wide range of scientific, scientific and social organizations. And a decision has been made: recommending a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. Please support this proposal and accept the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u45	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the speech on the bill. People's MP Kravchuk, Faction "BUT" is "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u46	I give Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u47	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, "BUT" faction. Next up will be Gordianka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u48	Dear fellows, dear Head! It sounds attractive: the order of farming, less arbitrary documents and procedures is simplified. But let's take a closer look at the problem. The organized farm movement has been around for almost 20 years. It's a system. And, little by little, the number of farms has been virtually constant for many years. Next factor. In other lands the land system for farming is much more stringent and demanding, for it is the earth. In the context of the projected future market for which most are voting -- we have no doubt -- this may be a major problem. First of all, is the land free to create farms? Ask the village councils, there is no more land of supply, no more land of supply, no more land of reserve. Next. Clearly, when the earth’s market is unlocked, you unlock it, chaos is inevitable, we understand that, but you will definitely limit the number of latifunds, and we have structures that rent hundreds of thousands of hectares of land. The limitation of the number of latifunds means that the free land will appear, you can make the right people, and then you can make it easy to buy them -- there are threats. We have a vision of a problem on the other side. Look at what's going on in the food market: sugar deficits have failed to come out -- Greek deficits, flour deficits, and so on and so forth. And for the first time in years, we don't even have an article in the farm support budget when it happened? Let's support the existing farms, even if they're not the main producer of agriculture, but on them and only on them to sustain and support the pitiful social sphere that is still in the countryside today. They live with people, they live with their problems, their misery and their needs, let's support them. With one hand, we simplify, and with the other hand, we take even the coin that was given even in crisis years. This is what we see in the solution. We cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u49	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u50	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Dear farmers! Of course, it's a bill, if you look at it at first, as if it's simplifying the process of getting the permits and the process of becoming a farmer. But we have one small observation that you look at the text of the bill, where the Minagropolitics have the right to determine which documents should be submitted by any candidate for the creation of agriculture itself. In the text of the bill, it sounds exactly like, "A list of documents that confirms all of this is defined in the Minagropolitics. I have a very pressing question: can't we, in the very text of the bill, provide for a clear list of documents and procedures for putting them on a competition committee to become a farmer? The preceding speaker may agree with everything. But what I would like to remind you is that all these 20 years, as we have declared the farm movement itself, there were those in turn who are today raising their hands in despair, that why farmers don't have the capacity to feed our population. Remember when at the beginning of the farm movement, everyone was promised a mini-technique and other preferences for a man in the country to have that opportunity, but not created. But the biggest trouble in Greece and everything we live in, the country, without sails and steering, we have no balance, we need to go back to balance, we need to know what and how much to produce.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, who are among those factions who did not participate. Yes, one minute, please, Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u52	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I don't think it's a very good law because here professional requirements are shrinking for farmers, it's on the one hand; and on the other hand, actually, farming is going into this free navigation, which is kind of dictated. We have so-called agroholdings, which in principle do not go through any qualification requirements before we rent tens, or even hundreds, thousands of hectares, for farmers we have such qualifications. Instead of taking a European course, a good approach to agriculture, and introducing these professional requirements for all agricultural subjects, the drafters simplify access to Ukrainian land. From my point of view, this is all done to prepare the ground for the end of Ukrainian soil. That's why I won't support him, even though you seem so liberal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u53	Yes, please, the other factions don't insist, the discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation and activity of farms. [[Registration number 7512]] Please vote. [[11:07:53]] For 230 The bill was adopted in the first reading. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on strategic sectors of the economy. [[Registration number 7180]] Can we consider it in a simplified way? Is there no objection? I'm making a proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:08:36]] For 204 Offer supported. Report to the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please have two minutes. Get ready for Platoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u54	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on strategic sectors of the economy is designed to amend article 260 of the Ukrainian Code of Master and article 20 of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, with the aim of giving the Cabinet of Ministers the authority to approve the sector's reform and development of the strategic sectors of the economy and their censuses. The adoption of the law will contribute to the implementation of the Presidential Economic Reform Programme 2010-2014, “Affordable Society, a Competitive Economy, an Effective State”. In terms of optimizing the public sector of the economy, reducing its level to 25-30 percent of GDP, ensuring that the costs from privatization to the state budget come in. These changes will allow for the completion of large-scale privatization with a comprehensive approach to privatizing state-owned assets in the strategic sectors of the economy. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, from the committee, head of the Economic Policy Committee, Alexy Vitaliovich Plonikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u56	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, of the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 2 November 2010, reviewed the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the strategic sectors of the economy, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the draft law is to empower the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to define the strategic sectors of the economy, to form a list of them and to approve the sectoral programmes for reforming and development of these sectors. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of October 21, 2010, makes observations. The Committee supported the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the strategic sectors of the economy and recommended that it be adopted as a basis and as a whole. [[tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u57	Please, if you would like to participate in the discussion, please sign in. Please, Calchenko, the BUT faction. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u58	Our faction does not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u59	Please, Zarubinsky, the faction of the People's Party. Behind him is Samuel Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u60	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, there are apparently several countries in the world that can view all sectors of their economy as strategic and give everyone the same attention. I won't call them. Well, you know very well that, unfortunately, Ukraine is not yet. I wish it were once, but today it's not. And so every country, well, I'm sorry for maybe not a political term like that, every smart country is trying to figure out what should be dominant at every stage in terms of spending, allocating material, financial, human, intellectual resources. For Ukraine, there are several areas of strategic activity, perhaps even one or two, and no one can deny that there is a sector among them such as agriculture. Because, you know, you can build airplanes and rockets, but I doubt, for example, that Ukraine will get into a three, a five or a dozen countries in these areas, for example, areas, or such as automobile construction, shipbuilding, and so on. I understand that there are many interested people in this, but the whole people of Ukraine are interested in giving priority to agriculture, because this is our niche. This is the niche of Ukraine in the world’s European distribution of labor. And who has studied the political economy understands this very well. So allowing the state, and more precisely, the Cabinet of Ministers to determine for a tangible perspective what should be the priority, why the State has to give priority, I repeat, to intellectual, human, financial, material resources, obviously this is a plus. If this initiative comes out of the Cabinet of Ministers, it's a government bill, if they're willing to do it in fact, understanding the national interests of Ukraine, I think it's this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u61	Finish up. Done? Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u62	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to say that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will not support the bill and that's why. Indeed, the very title of the bill makes it clear that the issue is strategic and very serious. I understand that it is practically a matter of transferring the function of defining strategically whether it is an object or not of a strategic office of the Ministers of Ukraine. In order not to get involved in the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a list of objects that are not privatized in order not to listen, the point is that we are on the shorter track. Let the Cabinet of Ministers decide whether this object is strategic or that object has ceased to be strategic. For example, I would like to make it clear to myself. Who today will say, is our archenegro, whether the state’s energy policy is a strategy or not? If this is a strategy, why in private? Please tell the APC is a strategy for our state or not a strategy? If the strategy is, why does the agricultural sector go down, despite saying that we are doing well, that we are achieving very great results? Rural construction, shipbuilding, which is no longer a national property by the majority. And that's why I'd like to express my point of view. Before we vote, let's think about the main thing with you. To date, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposed to hand over the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to determine what is strategic and what is not strategic. The bill cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u63	Thank you. Who among the nonparticipation factions insists? None. Dear colleagues, the committee's conclusion is to accept as a basis. The main scientific and expert management makes their point. And really, let me sum up the discussion. Before the vote, I would like you, your honourable colleagues, to pay attention to the very important position of this bill. If we want the Supreme Council to stop being a Parliament and establish what is responsible for the Constitution and the laws of the rules of economic development, then vote in favour of this bill. Because this bill foresees that the Supreme Council should not make a decision, as is now the case with the law, but that the Cabinet of Ministers should make similar decisions. I think the Cabinet of Ministers has enough authority and functions to do. Let him do everything in accordance with the Constitution of the Supreme Council, not the Cabinet of Ministers. What's more, you and I no longer form the Cabinet of Ministers, but we have to control its activities. In the light of these remarks made by the speakers, I put to the vote a bill under number 7180 amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on strategic sectors of the economy]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:18:09]] For 186 The bill was removed. We are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Family Code on the characteristics of adoption of individual categories of children (registration number 7332). Can we consider a simplified procedure? We can. () [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[11:18:53]] For 203 Supported. Short-term procedure. Honorary colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers, in view of the objective circumstances, ask that the bill be reported, not by the Minister of Education, but by the head of the State Service for Youth and Sports, Safiullin Rawl Safovich. Please. Two minutes. And from the Lukyanov Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u64	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The proposed draft act is designed to ensure the right of the child to be raised in the family, to strengthen the protection of his or her rights in adoption. In particular, the draft Act proposes to prohibit the adoption of Ukrainian children by persons without citizenship. The need for this is due to the fact that if a child is adopted without citizenship, it is not possible to follow the child’s future fate. The draft act also proposes to improve the procedure for the calculation of children who may be adopted. Children today are charged with adoption without their consent. It is suggested that underage children may be counted for adoption only by their consent. The draft Act proposes to improve adoption procedures for children whose parents refused to take into their families. If, within two months of the birth of the child, the parents have not taken her into their home or admitted to their parents ’ parents ’ care, they are invited to transfer the child for adoption without the consent of the parents. Amendments to article 221 suggest that the guardian’s consent to adopt a child should be obtained only in cases where he is a parent of a child. [[the caregiver]] Another issue that needs to be settled is the disunity of brothers and sisters in the adoption of foreigners. It is proposed that all siblings be allowed to be adopted into one family if one or more of them are on the payroll of the Government Office of State Administration for Adoption and Protection of the Rights of the Child for at least one year. Please support the draft law under consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u65	Thank you, Ravil Safovich. Please, from the committee, head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Lukyanov Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the February 2, 2011, meeting committee discussed a bill amending the Ukrainian Family Code on the characteristics of the adoption of individual categories of children introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The aim of the bill is to create conditions conducive to the realization of the rights of the child to adopt, to ensure their rights and interests in the family. The Committee on Legal Policy concluded that the bill did not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, the Committee on Legal Policy believes that a bill that is proposed to abolish adoption from non-parents may result in a narrowing of the rights of guardians and caregivers and in violation of the child’s interests, especially if she is under the age of consent to adopt herself. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, supporting the adoption of the bill as a basis, noted that the legislative proposal to include persons who cannot be adopters who need foreign care in health conditions is a violation of the rights of persons with disabilities. The Committee on Foreign Affairs supports the adoption of the bill. The main scientific and expert office concluded that the first reading of the bill could be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The implementation of the bill does not require additional funding from the State budget. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Family Code on the characteristics of adoption of individual categories of children by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Registration number 7332]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u67	Thank you. Please, if you are willing to participate in the discussion, please sign in. Please, Samuel Catherine, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u68	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine proposes that the bill be adopted only on the first reading because it needs further work. It embodies in the bill that adoption of children is forbidden to persons without citizenship and for other reasons. Next, I am like the person who started working in a children’s home, and I know that there are so many abuses when children, siblings, and children, but for various benefits even children’s heads agree to adopt children into different families. That is why I welcome this point, which relates to the fact that we do not have the right to give up adoptions in different, completely different families. I think we need to look very carefully at the age parameters when we're talking about a child's consent to adoption. And there's more. As for the permission to adopt a child who has been in the maternity home for two months, this means that the State is already concerned with the fate of the child. And I think we don't have to rush because we have cases where we have relatives, uncles, aunts, grandparents -- they don't even know they have grandchildren or grandchildren, for different reasons, and without their knowledge, the process of adoption is being carried out, especially abroad. Believe me, these examples are true today. And so I propose to adopt this bill only in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u69	Please, Kirilenko gives Tomenko his word. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to draw attention to the fact that we are here, and the government, and the parliament, have followed the strategy that we have defined: strategies for national adoption. We have taken some serious steps that reinforce the need for national adoption every day. I hope that we will find that we do not need to go through some, there, 5 to 10 years, to seek foreign adoption in general. In this regard, I would like to ask the Ministry of Justice, perhaps with the Ministry of Education, Science, Youth, and Sports, Ravil Safovich, to clarify the position raised after the ratification of the European Adoption Convention. Because we're being written by a lot of people who don't understand what we're doing here. What is it? For example, if we have ratified a democratic liberal convention that is in some positions contrary to our Family Code. There's a rule in the convention that predicts that our legislation is a priority. Thus, we need to be made clear that, for example, we have a ban on adoption by nonmarriage aliens. This is the principle of our position, and the convention does not influence it. We do not have a standard for same - sex marriage in the Family Code. Because here we are told that the Supreme Council has accepted that marriages of the same sex can now adopt our children. This does not extend to Ukraine either. That is, it is important to clarify our position after this convention. Now it's about this bill. Of course, several of the thets Catherine Samuel mentioned were correct. We have to write clearly what is in foreign hands, as it were, we hand over a child with 100 percent guarantee that it's in the family, under control and under the care of the child. Instead, my colleagues, Vladimir Bondarenko, also have serious comments. Those who say that certain restrictions on our parents ’ rights may be inappropriate. For example, two months after the birth of a child, if she has not been brought up in the family, perhaps not enough, since certain circumstances are subjective, there is no need to rush into doing so. So my suggestion is that in the first reading, it is a serious responsibility to work in the interests of the Ukrainian family and the Ukrainian child.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u71	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u72	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. Dear colleagues, it is clear that this issue of adoption is so sensitive that it must be approached with so much caution. And that's why legislative initiatives are designed to make this procedure more clear, certain restrictions are obviously justified in this case. But if you can ask a positive question about the legislative initiative on the inability of people without citizenship. I agree with the profile committee that the issue of children not being able to adopt our Ukrainian citizens, if they themselves need foreign assistance, needs to be carefully analyzed. Because often, dense families, which are made up of two people with limited physical capacity, are said to be able to raise children for much better, and for them it's really a matter of life, it's a matter of meaning of life. I'm not saying that this is to some extent a limitation on human rights in relation to such people. And one more moment. I think we need to agree to one of the proposals of the Scientific and Expert Authority that proposes to introduce a standard in the Ukrainian Family Code that allows foreigners to adopt children who are Ukrainian citizens only after they have reached the age of five. This will make it possible to reduce the abuse in the area of adoption and make it impossible to give priority to the adoption of children under five years of age to foreigners compared to Ukrainian citizens, which is now commonplace. And now I want to make an unpopular point of view in some countries, with regard to the adoption of children in families where there is a same - sex marriage. Imagine what a pattern of behavior will be in these children who are formed in such families.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u73	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u74	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. And would we even need to talk about the demographic situation in Ukraine if such a model in the family were to be imposed and formed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u75	One minute, Chernobyl, please. Chernobyl, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, as mentioned earlier, has also considered this bill, and has reached a positive conclusion on some minor remarks made by the Ukrainian national deputies. In general, this project, this law improves the situation, increases the protection of children. The comments that have been made are entirely relevant from Zarubinsky's colleague and others, but should still be taken into account mainly in another project -- drafts of the Law on Inter-State Adoption, on accession to the Convention, where unfortunately there are no moments in the observations made by the Ukrainian State. And so that convention that's going to come out tomorrow, I think, really, we need to get to work. With regard to this particular law, he fulfils the commitments we recently made by ratifying the International Convention. [[on the rights of adopted children]] This law increases the protection of a child's rights, I ask him to support it, at least in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u77	Others don't insist on factions? Then I put to the vote the bill 7332 on amending the Ukrainian Family Code on the characteristics of the adoption of individual categories of children. Please vote. [[11:32:29]] For 279 Adopted in the first reading. We're looking at questions. [[Registration number 7446]] Draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work. [[on the regulation of the pay fund of workers of monopolistic enterprises]] Can we do this on short notice, committee? We can. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:33:06]] For 204 Offer supported. Reported by Deputy Minister of Economy Kruczkov Irina Volodymyrna. Prepare for the Maruszczenko Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u78	Mr. President, honourable national MPs, you have a proposal for a draft Ukrainian Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work. The Ministry of Economic Development and Trade has drafted this bill with the aim of eliminating duplication in current legislation. Because since the adoption of this norm, which was in 1997, legislation has been in place to regulate tariffs for monopolistic enterprises has taken a big step forward. Thus, about 70 percent of the total number of monopolistic enterprises consist of residential and utility enterprises, and within the limits defined by legislation, the setting of tariffs on land, utilities, transport and other services, refer to the authority of the implementing authorities of rural, rural and urban councils, in accordance with article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. According to thermal energy, centralized water supply, plumbing is set up by the National Commission for the Regulation of the Municipal Services Market. Regarding the regulation of tariffs in electricity, the oil and gas complex, according to the Ukrainian Electricity Act, is carried out by the National Commission for Regulatory of Electricity in Ukraine. And this committee is affected by 20 percent of monopolists. So today, through tariff policy, the state has the ability to influence the pricing of monopolistic enterprises, and each tariff is calculated according to the appropriate methodology where all components of tariffs are controlled. So we think that there's a separate standard for regulating pay. is out - of - date and morally, and in fact it is not being fulfilled. Because the last coming into the budget was 2 million dollars -- that was in 2006. And this is not even economically justified in controlling this process. So I ask the people's deputies to support the government's bill. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u79	Thank you. Mr. Maruschenko Vladimir Stanislavovic, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u80	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! On February 2, 2011, at its meeting, the Committee on Social Policy and Work considered a bill prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is intended to eliminate the state regulation of the pay-for-work funds of monopolistic enterprises by excluding the relevant rule from part one of article 8 of the Ukrainian Pay-for-Work Act. The Committee supports this legislative initiative, believing that further regulation of the activities of monopolistic enterprises by setting up for them the calculated size of the labour fund, and financial sanctions for its excess, has become economically unwarranted, and is a double regulation of their activities because valid legislation defines the importance of the State influence on the pricing of these enterprises. Today, through tariff policy, the State has the opportunity to influence the economic activity of monopolistic operators. In addition, this double regulation inhibits the development of monopolists, limits the wages of their employees, creates the risks of toning income. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill may be based on a basis. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the Antimonopoly Committee, the joint representative body of the U.S. trade unions and trade unions supports the bill. The Ministry of Justice, the State Tax Administration, the Joint Representative Body of the National Employers do not have any comments and suggestions on the draft law. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues believes that the bill has a direct impact on budgetary indicators. Therefore, if it is adopted as a law, it can put into effect the terms defined by the author. In view of the above, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour decided to adopt the bill as a basis and asked for its support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u81	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. The wheel of Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u82	Please give the floor to my colleague, Konovaluku Valeria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u83	Please, Valery Konovaluk, microphone. Prepare Terhochina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is indeed a very appropriate offer from the Cabinet of Ministers. And I think we need to approve this bill in the first reading. And I want to point out that the regulation of the pay fund of the employees of the monopoly enterprises was introduced in 1997. This was introduced as one of the anti-inflation measures of market regulation, a warning of monopolistic price increases for the purpose of social protection of the population. I am convinced that these norms have had a positive impact, but today the situation requires a clearer response to all economic and social development processes in the state. Moreover, the estimated amount of the Labour Fund and the financial sanctions for it have become economically unwarranted. Therefore, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading and continue to consider it on a case-by-case basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u85	Sergey Teryohin, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u86	Thank you. Well. It's another example of this kind of loving power to a simple person. What is this about? Today, there are no means of comparing, on the average, the wages of government monopolies managers. Now let's imagine that any restrictions are being lifted. Tomorrow, Mr. Boyko at Naftogaza raises his salary 10 times. The salary goes to the cost of the tariff, which is to be paid at the expense of consumers and subsidies. So either you have to increase the tariff, there's NCRE right now that's going to react, or you have to increase the subsidy to Mr. Boyke's salary. So it is absolutely impossible to do this. You asked the employers, and you forgot to ask the pensioners about this law. We vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u87	Thank you. The only clarification, Boyko as minister, is the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as the National Deputies, by the way. Yeah, factions that didn't register. Zarubinsky, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u88	Thank you. My fellow Members, I think that the bill needs to be considered in a comprehensive manner, because there is a question that the revenue of the state budget will be reduced as a result of the adoption of this bill, and that is perfectly clear. Yes, they will be reduced, even in an explanatory note by the legislator. If anyone doesn't say, it's number four, financial and economic justification. Another thing is that this income was getting smaller and smaller from 2003 to 2006. It started with 19 million, and in 2006, which also comes with an explanatory note, 2 million. And so obviously, in preparing for the second reading, I think that, on the basis of this, it's going to be accepted, to take note of what Terhochin said not to happen, that the increase in wages for his employees, as in the explanatory note, did not result in an increase in wages for top managers, but that wages on average on the enterprise would be, as in some of today's enterprises, even.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u89	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u90	It's even going to be less than today's average industry. So I think in preparing for the second reading, it's going to be necessary. What this economy has to do with what's going on, what's not being paid to the budget now, will not be paid to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u91	Thank you. Question completed. True ones who talk about the problem, but perhaps the right ones, who say that the entrepreneur is being employed by people who are waiting for an increase in wages. So let's not just think about those you call that have nothing to do with it. Because I've already made it clear to ministers that others determine the wages. In the light of the discussion, I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 7446, amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work. [[on the regulation of the pay fund of workers of monopolistic enterprises]] Please vote. [[11:43:02]] For 243 The bill was passed. We are considering Bill No. 5092, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Structure, Power and Specificity of the Legal and Economic Regime of the National Industrial and Agricultural Association Masandra. Can we, uh, refer to the committee for a reduced procedure? Sure. Please, I'm making a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please support the offer. [[11:43:47]] For 208 Supported. Please, the bill's author, fellow player. Get ready, Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u92	Since 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has considered the draft Massandre Act. And in June 2009, I believe I did a great deal of public work by adopting such a law on the characteristics, structure, powers and legal, economic regime of the Massandra National Production Association. Today, Massandra, largely saved because Massandra is a greedy piece of land, from Foros to Sudak. Massandra is 4,000 hectares of vineyards. Massandra is the producing of more than 10 million bottles per year of elite quality wine. Massandra is 65 per cent of exports outside Ukraine of the output. Unfortunately, when we passed this law, which really gave Massandre salvation, the social sphere developed and supported. But in certain articles of the law, at the time of adoption on second reading, here in the voting room without due process, a number of comments were made, amendments that I think we need to correct today. Because this has created difficulties precisely in the productive, economic nature of Massandra's activities. First. Article 2, paragraph 5, which states that “Massandra” is self-sales and does not have the right to transfer these functions to any other entity, provides an opportunity for a mixed interpretation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u93	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u94	The sale of manufactured products belonging to Massandra. And there's eight of them. Second. Paragraph 6 of this article, which provides that the trade mark, production technologies, product names produced by the NGO Massandra are exclusively “Massandre” and cannot be passed on to any other structure. The implementation of wine by foreign enterprises is prohibited. Again, this is all about insiders' activities. The point is that the main factory at Massandre is not in a position to produce all the wine products that the joints of the same association produce and supply, and he, of course, cannot allow it to be implemented without reprocessing. Therefore, this amendment does not provide an opportunity for the Masandra brand to be passed on to any other manufacturers, but rather to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u95	Thank you, Leonid Ivanovich. Please, from the Committee of the Kaletnik Grigory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u96	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations considered the above - mentioned bill. It is aimed at improving the legislative provision of the National Agricultural Association Masandra, in particular by clarifying the powers of merger with regard to the organization of its activities, the sale of its own products, the use of trademarks, manufacturing technologies, the specificity of the legal regime of the land provided for the continuous use of the Masandra merger, taking into account their functional purpose and the payment of these lands, which refer to the category of particularly valuable land. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Law on the Structure, Power and Features of the Legal, Economic and Property Regime of the National Agricultural Association "Masandra" as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u97	Thank you. Who wants to share in the discussion? Is it? Let's sign up. Please, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u98	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We couldn't help but take the floor about the adoption of this bill, because one of the few enterprises in this extremely competitive sector, which is wine and wine production in the world, Ukraine has something to say about itself. Many years, if you don't say a few decades and centuries, the history of this company, what it does, how it stores what it manufactures, and how it realizes, of course, it deserves great respect and support. This bill clarifies the law that we have adopted, because, in fact, the previous law, we have essentially blocked the activity of this company in many ways. I thank the author and on behalf of the faction for having worked out this law in detail and for unlocking the activities of an enterprise where blocks are not to be placed. It is worth supporting that the bill strengthens the requirements for the conservation of both the land fund and the recreational fund and other components that make up and form the enterprise. And once again, this is a national manufacturing company. The title of the national is the high title that protects him from partial privatization attacks, partial transfer to municipal property, and subsequent privatization and so on and so on. And so we can quietly do, as some say in the nation, the abrasions to the legs of what Ukraine can do today. We vote in favour of this bill and we will support the author for what he has made clear and he has done much to make this law, indeed, work to the benefit of and to the glory of this enterprise and Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u99	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law of Ukraine on the Structure, Authorisation and Specificity of the Legal and Economic Regime of the National Industrial and Agricultural Association of Masandra. [[Registration number 5092]] Please vote. [[11:51:43]] For-95 The factions, please. Regional Party – 8, BUT – 32, “Our Ukraine” – 12, Communists – 25, “Reforms” – 10, “The People’s Party” – 0, “Afterfractional” – 8. The bill was unfortunately rejected. Dear colleagues, we should now consider draft law number 6609: amending article 134 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[on the rental of land for commercial agricultural production]] However, the authors of the bill, Omeljanović and Bebelzenko, ask the Supreme Council to postpone the draft. Is there any objection? Okay. The bill is being transposed, the bill is being considered. Here's the question: the Bill on the Development and Consumption of Biological Fuels. [[Registration number 7524]] The committee head, he's the author, Kaletnik Grigory Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Reducing the consumption of imported petroleum products, natural gas, and replacing traditional fuels with renewables remain the most pressing problems of energy and economics in the world and Ukraine. This is not what individual officials in Minpalevenergo understand. At present, the share of renewable energy sources in global energy consumption is 14 percent. The countries of the European Union plan to increase it to 20 percent by 2020 according to the directives adopted. The price of oil, esteemed colleagues, in 10 years -- from 2000 to 2010 -- rose from $15 to $80 per barrel, or 5 times. And in January-February 2011 alone, by 116, or in 10 years, the price of oil has increased by 8 times, and so has the price of diesel and gasoline. Today, one of the most promising renewable sources of energy is biomass produced in the agricultural sector of Ukraine's economy, and biofuels produced from this biomass. Ukraine may soon replace biofuels with 30 percent of the oil fuels consumed in the country, 3.5 million light petroleum products. The use of biomass in Ukraine should be seen as one of the means of diversifying energy sources and reducing dependence on imported energy, the annual cost of which is more than $30 billion for Ukraine. The main advantages of production and use of biofuels include the creation of new jobs and sources of financial resources in rural areas, environmental protection, reliability and accessibility, cost savings, growth in the economy as a whole, and domestic agriculture, and the development of science. I hope that this law will allow Ukrainian manufacturers and consumers, as well as international investors, to work in one legislative field under the single rules of the game. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations supported the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. But. Can I have a couple of seconds, please? But the Tax Code that entered into force, article 7, paragraph 7.3, defines what.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u101	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u102	It is said that taxes and assemblies have been set up, that the Tax Code has been amended by laws that contain them. can only be made by laws that contain an exclusive provision for amendments to this code. Because as the author asks the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make the necessary changes, turn this law back to the authors without discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand the situation? Now. What's more, I would really like to pay attention to a similar phenomenon and thank the committee head for not wanting to violate, indeed, another bill, although we could have done it with you, unfortunately, and not noticed. So without discussion, let's make a decision to transfer, more faithfully, the drafter's return to work. Please vote. [[11:56:42]] For 276 Let's get the author back to work. Please, John Kirilenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u104	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Thank you for the opportunity to address this question. I would like to thank the author, Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, who is not only a specialist in this field but also a scientist. Adam Ivanovich! I refer to all colleagues, this law will necessarily have to be adopted by separating it, selecting articles that we cannot interfere with tax, customs legislation. But you've heard the figure all, Ukraine consumes 30 billion dollars of energy, the sum is consistent with the national budget, the left part is imported, we can produce ourselves from a renewable source, a clean, new motivation for agriculture, and the natural energy independence of Ukraine. This law should be and should be in force, by the way, is already the relevant law of Pashinsky, we know this law as Pashinsky, but unfortunately it doesn't work to the full and it can't work without this law that colleague Kaletnik proposed. So we need to get it in and get it in this room as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There's a break, let me make an announcement before the break. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the departure of National Deputy Berezkin Stanislav Semenović from the deputy faction "BUT- "Fatherhood" and his membership in the MP's Party of the Regions. Next announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I report that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Poloneyev, Yuri Volodymyrovic, has been appointed as a member of the Party of the Regions. Another announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I report the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Buta Yuri Anatoliyovich, from the MP's faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and its membership in the MP's Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! We continue to consider the draft law amending the Ukrainian Red Book Act. [[on increasing the protection of rare species of animals and plants]] [[Bill 6472 registration number]] Can we consider it in a simplified way? I'm voting on a motion to deal with the issue with a reduced procedure. [[12:31:32]] For-164 A decision has been made. I invite the author of the initiative, Mikola Stepanovich Komara, to prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend the Law on the Red Book of Ukraine (as regards the strengthening of measures to protect rare species of animals and plants for those brought to the Black Book of Ukraine. In recent times, Ukraine has experienced a catastrophic situation with the protection of ostrich fish, which until recently had a significant economic impact on the country’s fisheries. Because of mass poaching, the number of ostrich species in Ukraine’s waters fell by 99 percent compared to the 1980 ’ s, and all five ostrich species were introduced into the third edition of the Red Book of Ukraine in 2009. The special loss of ostriches in Ukraine carries their illegal catch for the purchase of black eggs. Regrettably, black crayfish are not yet part of the concept of the Red Book. Similarly, the concept of the Red Book does not include wood in the Red Book of the Trees, such as a high tree tree, which is now being destroyed in an active way in the souvenir - making Crimea. Therefore, in order to strengthen measures to combat the illegal production of ostrich, high- and other beef trees in the Red Book of Plants and Animals, the notion of "objects of the Red Book of Ukraine" has to be expanded to include parts of wild animals and plants in this concept. A corresponding supplement should also be found in article 12 of the law, which would allow for State control of the holding of captives or the cultivation of artificial plants and animals in the Red Book. This bill is being amended by a draft law that we have already introduced and considered in this room. It will not cause duplication of functions, nor will it require additional material costs. The initiative of this bill comes from a cultural worker who manufactures products of cultural purpose, but not from the ones you can see in Crimea on schedules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u108	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, from the Hare Committee. And we listened to the mosquito, and now we're the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u111	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u112	There are also pigeons among the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Red Book of Ukraine, introduced by the National Deputies of Komar, Pshonka, Dajc and Doveb. [[Registration number 6472]] The authors of the bill are rightly concerned about the protection of many rare species of animals and plants, including the catastrophic situation of ostrich fish. The number of ostriches in Ukraine’s waters has been reduced to so many that all five ostriches have been introduced into the third edition of the Red Book of Ukraine. The same disastrous situation has been observed with the protection of thousands, fir trees, and other rare trees from which souvenirs are made. Such comforting examples can be cited in countless ways. The committee shares its concerns with the authors, but this is a case where good intentions have not been found by appropriate legislative mechanisms of protection. The bill proposed amendments to article 4 of the Code on the Red Book of Ukraine, which extend the concept of objects of the Red Book of Ukraine by including rare types of microorganisms, parts or organs of rare species of animals and plants, such as eggs, ikra, seeds, horns, trees, etc. In addition, it is suggested that the red - book object be extended not only to natural conditions but also to artificially created environments, an environment of slavery. It is also suggested that article 12 be added to the new part, namely, to register with the central authority of the executive body on the protection of the environment of animals and plants that are placed in the Red Book and are threatened with destruction and held captive or raised in artificial waters — botanical gardens, nursery plants, and water parks.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u114	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u115	I'm done. The Chief Expert Office proposes to send a draft for further work, and the Committee also believes that the bill should be finalized. And I think that our vote for the authors to finalize this bill will encourage them to accept this bill in the hall, but in that form, in the form that will be put into the ideology of protecting rare animals and plants from the Red Book of Ukraine and those that are at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u116	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Besides Zarubinski, no one insists? Please, Zarubinsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u117	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. In principle, respectable colleagues, any initiative to include as many plants and animals as possible in the Red Book, should be welcomed, especially in the background of the poaching that is common in Ukraine. Because I'm sorry to say something unpleasant to such hunters. But when people are destroying animals because of their gambling, not because they need to eat, I don't think it's entirely consistent with the philosophy of the 21st century. But the right person was a member of the profile committee that such a good idea was to fit the current Ukrainian legislation and be written in a legal manner that was irreprehensible. In this case it's serious, I wouldn't say that the violation, but rather the inaccuracies, which are the very inadequacy of what the Red Book is and what it involves. And it was rightly pointed out that obviously you can't be included in the list of parts of the plant and part of the animal, because the icre does not exist separately from the ostrinets of the fish. So I don't think there's any reason to reject this idea, there's no reason to reject this bill. I think that the subject of the legislative initiative will be able to process it by just coming out of the exact right supply of our scientific expertise in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u118	Thank you. Discussing the question. Please, Samuel, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u119	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to tell you that no horn and hooves, and no hiccups from the center to the Red Book, will save the plant and animal world. Please don't make the whole world laugh. In order to reinforce your responsibility, please make changes to the Ukrainian Administrative Code, the Criminal Code, go to the fishing arrow, and see how everything is virtually destroyed today, but the judicial authorities, the fiscal authorities, who have to control it, do not. And we come, Adam Ivanovich, to laugh: the ikra, the horn, the hooves have forgotten. You can't make a mockery of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please make changes to the Administrative and Criminal Codes. This will be a responsibility, and this will be the preservation of both animal and plant life.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u120	Hare in protection, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u121	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. The point is that the protection and protection of endangered animals and plants takes place in various ways. Yes, we can increase the responsibility for breaking the law, but if we don't allocate money, don't support those animals or, for example, don't raise any animals, we'll never ensure the existence of this species. So that doesn't conflict with each other. We need to expand the Red Book because there are so many animals and plants today before the point of extinction, we need to. At the same time, the responsibility for the destruction of animals and plants must be increased. But these two things cannot be contrasted. This is support, on the one hand, and on the other hand it is responsibility for illegal activity. So, in this case, we need to do what our committee says: Work and get the authors to work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I think it's better that there's no Red Book to protect anyone, there's no need to protect everyone so they can function without the Red Book. But since it is, and there is a legislative initiative, I'm putting it to a vote on the adoption as the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Red Book Act. [[on increasing the protection of rare species of animals and plants]] [[Registration number 6472]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:42:29]] For-30 There is a proposal for a committee and a scientific and expert office to direct subjects to the rights and legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. [[12:42:56]] For 271 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending article 222 of the Code of Administrative Offences (for granting the authorities of the internal affairs (militia) to deal with administrative offences of financial matters) (Registration No. 5207). Can we follow the reduced procedure? I'm making a proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[12:43:37]] For 193 Supported. Please, Moses Volodymyr Romanov, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u123	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I will report instead of the author, Shemczuk Viktor Viktorovich, his legislative initiative and report to our committee. The Code on Administrative Offences contains article 164, which establishes the administrative responsibility for violations of financial matters. Article 255 of this Code provides that administrative procedures for these offences are made up of internal affairs, that is, police organs. At the same time, article 222 of the Code, which provides for the competent authorities to consider these protocols, does not mention internal affairs that have the right to draft a protocol and to consider a protocol on violations of financial legislation. Thus, the author of the legislative initiative proposes in article 222 to introduce article 164, which is marked 2, that is, to give the heads of the district police authorities the right to consider protocols on violations of financial legislation, which are made up of the same police officers. The committee has considered this bill and believes that it can be adopted as a basis in the first reading. This is the position of the committee and its author. That's not my position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u124	Thank you. Who wants to share in the discussion except for Arjevetine? Doesn't anyone else insist? Arjevitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to listen very carefully to what I have said. The point is that now, in matters of financial regulation, they will have the right to impose fines and police. I mean, it's about customers, it's about entrepreneurs. And today, I would like to remind you of what state organizations are doing this control in terms of the appropriateness of legislation in financial matters: The State Audit Service of Ukraine, the State Financial Monitoring Commission, the State Regulators, the National Bank, the State Services, the State Securities Commission, the Tax Inspectorate. The banking system just basically performs the functions of the state, it's already said, will knock on the customer in all directions. Please tell me if it's too much for an entrepreneur to do this kind of focal point for financial issues. So I think it's inappropriate to look at it for, well, even that kind of reason. If the author suggested that this function be removed from the Minfin KRU, from the State Control Commission, transferred to the police, it would probably have to be removed, and here it should be given. And so it remains that the two organizations will make up these acts. Next. If you take this proposal, it's about 162-2 articles, of course, it's essentially about putting all of these sentences together in a sphere where there's government property, and that's right, and that's logical. And if we take this article to the private sector today, where small and medium-sized businesses, and if, for example, some employee in this private enterprise, well, did some damage, the manager decides that it's inappropriate to punish him, because it's not promising or not the reason. But he will now be obliged to do so because he will be subject to administrative misconduct. So, Your Honor, I'm suggesting you can't take this, it's too much for an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u126	Question completed. I am voting on the draft Law amending article 222 of the Code on Administrative Offences (for the granting of the authority of the internal affairs (Militaries) to deal with administrative offences of financial matters) (Registration No. 5207). The committee proposes to take the basis, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, to return the bill to work. Please vote. [[12:48:35]] For-34 Not supported. There's no other offer? The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve criminal liability for violations of electoral legislation. [[Registration number 5424]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:49:13]] For 196 Thank you. The author of the bill, and he's from the committee, Musik Volodymyr Romanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u127	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In connection with the preparations for Ukraine’s presidential elections, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the law in August 2009 and supplemented the Ukrainian Criminal Code with article 158, marking 1, and amended the text of article 157 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. It was in article 158, marked "prim." that the voter who participates in the election or referendum has more than once criminal responsibility in the polling station. At the same time, you and I, the legislator, didn't realize that even the President's election could take place in more than one round, which happened twice in our country. That is why there is a possibility of re-voting. Moreover, the legislator did not take into account that in other elections governed by electoral laws, both to the Supreme Council and to local councils, rural, urban heads, which may be separate or held together, there was also a repeated vote by the electorate in the polling station. So in article 158, marked "1", we explain which cases are meant when the electorate votes more than once, and this is criminally criminal. Yuri Bogdanovich, I've had a conversation with you, say it separately. In addition, we have established a distinction between the avoidance of a member of the electoral commission. For today there is criminal responsibility for evading a member of the electoral commission from performing his duties as a member of the commission. At the same time, it is not described in the present law for those who apply the law, however, that it is not clear what is the purpose, what is the motive, what is the case, which is for important reasons, which is not for important reasons. So the law also regulates the situation in this part. First of all, article 60, which is in the current Criminal Code, is proposed to us before we are expelled, since the question of criminal responsibility in this article is provided for in article 157, 158, marked "prim." and 159 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there is a note, as always, of the legal administration. I don't rule out that if the Elections Act is passed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be some new ones in the twelfth year, but the Legislative Security Committee and I ask you to support it in the first reading on a basis, and we will work on it even when the Elections Act to the Supreme Council is in the twelfth year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u128	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Please, Klukkowski, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u129	Thank you, Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." I think it's very symptomatic that the bill on criminal responsibility for violating electoral legislation does not actually encourage the national MPs to discuss it. However, I would like to point out that the prescribed bill, which seems to be aimed at improving the current formulation of 157 and the subsequent articles of the Criminal Code, does not actually achieve the intended goal in any way. First of all, I think it's enough to intimidate citizens into taking part in election committees. Not only are we paying them beggarly money for working on the limits of their capabilities, but we are still allowing every disobedient member of the commission to be brought to criminal responsibility. Think about it, colleagues, especially factions that are not factions of regions, those you propose to be members of election committees, or intimidate criminal responsibility, or put in jail. The second thing about what the reporter was talking about was voting twice during the election. Regrettably, today it is only a criminal offence to vote twice in the same area, this Jesuit change in 2009, in which voting in two different districts, but in the same elections, is not punished in any way, is thus encouraged, ceases to be a crime and is not corrected by the bill. So it seems to me that, as a bill that does not achieve its objectives, it deserves to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u130	Thank you. No one insists on discussing it anymore? Dear colleagues! I'll say two words. To my conviction, the bill does not reinforce but reduces criminal responsibility for violating electoral legislation. I'm voting on the proposal of a committee on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 5424 on amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on improving criminal responsibility for violations of electoral legislation]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:55:29]] For-37 Not supported. The bill was rejected. We're looking at the draft Law on the Conservation of Architectural and Urban Heritage. [[Registration number 5329]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please support this proposal. [[12:56:01]] For 199 Supported. Please, Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich, two minutes from the Yavorowski Committee to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, the Act on the Protection of the Architectural Heritage, in our view, is important in terms of the author, and the two committees and the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, and our Committee on Construction and Regional Policy and Mineral Building. Because we have 3.5 thousand monuments of national significance in our country and more than 15,000 local monuments, the Supreme Council ratified a convention on the protection of architectural monuments as early as 2016. And so, from our point of view, it seems logical that we passed the law on this issue, and then we would have completed the question of building a legislative framework to protect architecture’s monuments. From this point of view, it doesn't seem entirely logical to conclude that the Scientific and Expert Authority, which says that the inappropriate adoption of this law, needs to be changed to the existing law on the protection of cultural monuments. Because it's a separate area of architectural memory protection, it's being separately protected in the world, and we think we need to regulate it legislatively. More precisely than the basic law has written down questions about the formulation of one or the other organs and their credentials for the protection of architectural monuments. More precisely, we prescribe how international cooperation with the same UNESCO will be done, buffer zones are prescribed for the preservation of the world’s monuments, so that we do not have the distaste for our Sofia Kyivsky, as described in the way and how the local authorities work with the monuments of architecture. The monuments of architecture are needed to follow them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u132	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u133	As a result, I ask the room to support our bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u134	Thank you. From the Kosovo Committee, Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u135	Mikhailo Kosov, BUT faction, Reforms and Order. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We discussed this bill twice at a meeting of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality on June 2nd and October 20th last year. Why twice? Because really up to the text of the project is a serious observation, and above all, the observation of our science and expertise department. The main point is that it might be better to make additions and changes to existing ones, as our experts call the basic Law on the Conservation of Cultural Heritage. I was the author, and I reported this law to you, my fellow dignitaries, then 316 deputies voted for it. It's really so universal. But this time I would still ask you to support the initiative of the drafter of the bill and vote in favour of adopting it in the first reading. Why? But because it really does have an architectural heritage and construction. It's a separate field in our culture. And it needs to be governed separately by a separate law. And the next. There has been a recent gap in the preservation of this heritage: whether the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction or the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Now that's it, this conflict is gone, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u136	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u137	Cultures. Now, I'm telling you, this conflict is gone because it's all gone to the Ministry of Culture. And on the second reading, we're going to work with the author to change the science department. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u138	Thank you. Who wants to share in the discussion? Yes, School. Others don't insist? Please, Andrew School and Greenewsky Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u139	Thank you. Andrew School, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Honorable chairman, distinguished colleagues to MP the nationals, respected viewers, because. and the hearers, for in the first place it will usually be a reference to them. Well, who doesn't know what's going on with us destroying cultural heritage? I will no longer count the famous ones in Kiev – Sofia Kiev, the Decade Church, so far it is not known what is being built: whether the kiosk will be from ticket sales or whether there will be a church of one, i.e. the ruling religion in Ukraine, Lavra, here is being hinted at. There are many instances when the acquisition of a nation into the hands of a less than entirely edifying orderly and it is destroyed because it sees the development of this monument of architecture. But I'll give you an example of my hometown of Lviv. In Lviv, there was 150 years of fire. The Soviet authorities would not dare to destroy it, but to do anything with it. The previous authorities kind of struggled to, I don't know, keep it there, at least. But there came a minister of state, and he said, "Why do we have a fire department in Lviv, 150 years old? Because we have the oldest part of the fire nearby, in Kiev, up to 80 years." Well, what about 150? It's more like 80. And then we decided to destroy it. Ruined, destroyed, cut around the centuries of Leipzig. And what's going to be there? There'll be a beautiful eight-story business center giant. What else do you need? Around school, one, the other. Two schools, with Polish, Ukrainian. People were protesting. Absolutely to one place it's the city's authority. What's more, now I've been telling them that the fire car will be coming to you longer and your room will be burned down. Maybe that's why they canceled to burn? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u140	Thank you. Please, Grenevetsky Sergey, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u141	Thank you. Greenewic, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I believe that the efforts of the subject matter of the legislative initiative have been made. the law to improve the implementation of State policy in the area of protection of cultural heritage deserves attention. Moreover, they have gone a long way towards ensuring more effective control over the state of regeneration of historic territories, especially by regulating administrative relations between government authorities and landowners. But it seems to me that the next reading needs to be taken more seriously and all the points, the differences that are, let's say, the Local Self-Government Act. Considering that I represent a region where many monuments of architecture, urbanization and local significance, and national significance, and world significance, I would ask this period to look at the relationship between the executive authorities and local self - government in order to take into account the real situation in order to avoid financial distortions, namely, the efficient use of budgetary resources and not to violate the law to preserve the unique monuments of our architecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u142	Thank you. Zabarsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u143	I give the word to Zubanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u144	Dentist microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u145	Thank you. We should mention under this law that the title of the bill is incomplete, where conservation is, where security is and is not. It should also be borne in mind that objects of architectural and urban heritage, whose preservation is proposed to form a given project, are part of a cultural heritage and correspond to the definition of a fixed company and so forth, that is, duplicated by other laws. So I propose that this law be directed to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. A double impression from the bill: on the one hand, it is necessary, on the other hand, it is a basic bill. As far as I'm concerned, I really don't see the difference between architectural and urban heritage, so it doesn't go into the general notion of cultural heritage. Rather, it would be a separate chapter to be made in this law. Well, there's an initiative by the author, he's entitled to it, although I repeat it again, it would be more appropriate, indeed, for the basic law to introduce a special chapter in order to protect the architectural and urban heritage. As a result of the discussion, I am voting on Bill 5329 -- the draft Act on the Conservation of Architectural and Urban Heritage in the First Reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:07:31]] For-84 The offer is not supported. Maybe let's really send the drafter to work on making changes to the basic law, all that's needed to protect the architectural and urban heritage, but to implement it into the Cultural Heritage Protection Act. I'm putting this motion to a vote: to put Bill 5329 to work. Vote. [[13:08:19]] For-73 And this idea is not supported. Then the bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Education Act and articles 11, 14 of the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act. [[on the elimination of educational institutions]] [[Registration number 5334]] Under the reduced procedure, there is a proposal. Please be supportive. [[13:08:59]] For-198 Supported. Report by Javorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich, please. And get ready for Samilak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u147	Good afternoon, Ukraine! Vladimir Yavorowski is head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Dear colleagues and distinguished voters! You understand perfectly and probably all of us are concerned, at least most of us are concerned about the closing of schools in Ukraine today. If it had been closed in previous years, there have been about 700 schools closed in the last 1.5 to 2 years, in three years. Yes, over the course of three years, 700 schools were closed to about a thousand schools. I think that each of us should have a tremendous anxiety about how literally, as a stepneath, our educational base is shrinking. The thing about the situation today is that there is a village in Ukraine, and I appeal to the village first, because there are many smaller schools in the city, although it also closes. And it's basically Ukrainian schools, because it's usually in the village, you know. Because of this same concern, it caused the need to try to adjust and stop this mechanical contraction of schools, especially in rural areas. What does this bill I have proposed? I think that in order to avoid these faulty cuts in schools, it is necessary for the authorities of the state to be involved, that is, in a person obviously the Ministry of Education or the Cabinet of Ministers, on the one hand, but to be consistent with the local authorities, because they know and understand this problem on the spot much more than they do in the Ministry of Education of Ukraine. Because of this, it is likely that this harmony in the approach and authorities of the local authorities and the authorities of the state will provide an opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u148	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u149	I'm done. Unsurpassed decisions. And another proposal that requires that if there are at least five people in the classroom before, I propose that we bring three people today so that we still have the schools that we really need. You know how many schools are closed today and in the Red Light, and so on. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u150	Thank you. Secretary of the Science and Education Committee, Catherine Seminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u151	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the drafter of the bill suggests that we establish in two laws of Ukraine that the abolition of public educational institutions located in rural areas is proposed to be carried out in accordance with the decision of the authorities of state executive power and local self-government. I note that this is not in line with the principles of the relationship of the territorial communities with the local self-government bodies, which are accountable, accountable and accountable to the territorial communities. In accordance with article 142 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law on Local Self-Government, the owner of educational establishments based on municipal property is the territorial community, and the authorities of self-government are only the authorities that are to carry out, on behalf of it and in its interests, the administration of appropriate educational institutions. In view of this, it is obvious that local self - government authorities are required to address the relevant issues solely with the consent of the local communities, not the other way around. And that's why, of course, we can't agree with that. It is clear and clear today that only the territorial community has the right to decide whether to exist or not to exist in a municipal educational institution. The other one. The proposal to reduce the number of students in classes from 5 to 3 deserves attention. In particular, I would like to remind you that this law, this law on the reduction of numbers, as well as the division of classes in the study of individual subjects, we voted in this room in the first and second readings, but one of the political parties was initiated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the bill that had the right to life has been blocked to date. Now it's too late to talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u152	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u153	It is unlikely that you will get a number of votes, but the second item is to be supported. The committee proposes to send a bill for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u154	Thank you. Yes, are there willing to discuss? Sign up. Please, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Prepare Zabzaluka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u155	Please give the floor to your colleague Volodymyr Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u156	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u157	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Montenegro. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! This year, 20 years have passed since a bunch of worlds were able to eliminate Soviet power. During Soviet times, schools were built, not closed. By the way, the author of this bill also participated in all these matters. In 20 years, nobody needs the village. It's just ruined. Schools are closing down, district hospitals are closing down, and hospitals and hospitals are closing down. Moreover, this issue is regulated by valid legislation. It takes a community to deal with the fate of a school or other educational institution in the village. Therefore, it is absolutely unnecessary to support this initiative. And with regard to the second initiative, we can support -- and really send this bill for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u158	Roman Zabzaluk. Prepare Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u159	I give the word to Tomenka Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u160	Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, to make things so simple in our lives, and if the rule of article 11 were to apply, we would not have had a school shut down. Because the law does not provide for the way the local executive asks for agreement in the territorial community. And I'll tell you how she does it: she's not talking to any territorial community at all, and the Education Authority called the village head -- and they said, "Dude, do you know what the party's general line is? Sign it, and the school will be closed." So the idea of our colleague is that we need to find a mechanism that is agreed upon by the territorial community. In principle, I stand in the right position in the rural area -- these are the villages, in the city -- this is a city referendum. It's the only highest organ that has to do this. Because to expect a village head or a city head to support parents, as we see today in Donetsk, Makiyivka, Odessa, and all over Ukraine, does not work. So I would consider it necessary: first, the law is flawed that he, well, the legislator thought that only in the village schools would be closed. And article 11 deals only with rural schools. Today, cities are completely closed. So first of all, we need to respond to article 11 that applies to all schools. The other one. Explain what the agreement of the local community is. For example, the agreement of the territorial community through the village congregations and the city referendum. Third position. I think it's extremely important that we don't see the right to eliminate school theoretically, if the village agrees or the city can only be reorganized in an educational institution, for example, after-school work. You can't let a shopping mall or a restaurant be there. Because it's trouble for the village. So I think our colleague's idea deserves attention. And between the first and the second, we have to write down this mechanism that I'm talking about, and not allow the total closure of schools in both the village and the city.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u162	Ivan Popescu, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u163	Please pass the word to Vadim Koleschenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u164	Vadim Koleschenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u165	The issues raised by Mr. Yavorowski in his bill are certainly not bad. Because if we were to adopt this bill, we would be able to open Romanian classes, Hungarian classes in Western Ukraine. Russian - speaking classes could open up, for example, in the White Krynica region of Cherniewec, where the center of the ancients is located. We could ban the closure of Russian - speaking schools in Donetsk, Chercas. Sadly, though, this bill contradicts the existing Constitution and the Law on Local Self - Government. So it's tautology. And finally, that's the main thing. And it's not stated how this should be financed if the central government has to intervene. Therefore, such a bill must be sent to the Ministry of Finance so that the Ministry of Finance can give its opinion on this point. And finally, the main thing. I believe that the bill is in contradiction with the trend of increasing the territorial communities capable of ensuring that citizens are provided with educational services at the right level. We consider it appropriate to allow local self-government to win profits, the costs are our main task. It's not the measure or the measure of the ban. To ensure that the local community has the funds for which it receives educational facilities and provides educational services at an appropriate level. So, of course, if a part of the support for the ban on the closing of classes was even in three children, that would certainly satisfy me. So we would have the opportunity to raise questions for the Hungarians, for the Romanians, for the Russians, for the Poles to have their national language protected. But given that we said that it contradicts the existing Constitution and there is no conclusion of the Ministry of Finance, I think that this bill needs to be sent back for further work and then returned.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u166	Thank you. Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u167	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich! I'm going to support this bill for one reason, and I'm going to propose to all the colleagues who are against it, to go to the village and see what the Ukrainian village is all about today. The village center, its heart is either a school or an FAP or a club if it stays somewhere else. Usually there are no clubs today, and the stores of one gindelica, as the people say, and the only thing about which is the village is the school. Imagine parents who are forced to take their children for miles in winter and summer, to a neighboring village, or to a world where they can teach their children. So we should not close schools; it is a crime; it is a crime to close schools, regardless of the language of instruction: Russian, Ukrainian, Romanian, even five small Romanians have the right to study their native language, or Hungarians, let alone Ukrainians. So our job is to keep these schools like the pupil of the eye, not in the village of the school, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u168	John the Rabbit, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u169	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! Of course, we need to regulate the closing process, the authorities call it optimisation of the school network. And for example, the 145 School in Kalinovo-East, it's near Makiyevka, with the Ukrainian language of learning, it's also threatened. So what's the trend in all of these processes? The trend is to remove citizens when making socially important decisions. We've seen this trend in the adoption of the Urban Activity Regulation Act, and we see it in the closing of schools. Let's think about the perspective. Today the demographic situation has improved, tomorrow someone will have to go to school, and the school will be gone. So you have to keep all of these schools, and it's not just the centers of the culture of the populace, it's also the perspective. Because it's going to be like the kindergartens, they've sold everything to every entertainment center, and now there's nowhere to take the kids.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u170	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending article 18 of the Education Act and articles 11, 14 of the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act. [[Registration number 5334]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:23:34]] For-53 Dear colleagues, and the profile committee, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, and virtually everyone who's speaking has talked about what's right here. So what's right is to support and send to the author of the initiative a draft for further work, taking into account what we discussed today. Please support this proposal. [[13:24:13]] For-96 The factions, please. There are no votes in the region, "BUT – Fatherland" – 38 votes instead of 105 or more, "Our Ukraine" – 17, Communists – 25, reforms – 10, non-fractional – 6. The bill was rejected. His name was mentioned in the moment of the colloquial procession.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I want to say first of all to the Party of Regions, especially the second vote, first of all I can understand there, that you took a huge sin per soul, you actually supported the closing of schools today. I never thought you'd vote for it. I suggested a very normal approach to being a double level, and the local level, let's say local self-governance at school closing, should be a unique case when school closes. And so that we can participate, and the authorities of the state. You didn't vote for it, you're just a bunch of helpless, stupid people who don't understand what you're doing. You close schools, you close schools, you build prisons, you can do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u172	We're looking at the draft law on the abolition of pension benefits, short-term. [[Registration number 5391]] I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. The author may object. It's his right. [[13:25:56]] For 209 The author may deny it, but any national MP, any of the national MPs has the right to such an offer, if it's supported by at least 150 people's deputies, a reduced procedure, if there are no more than 100 articles in the bill. Please, Kulčicki Mikola Georgievicz, author of the bill and prepare Valery Suškević from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u173	Mikola Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine" party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! It is quite obvious that the current pension system needs to be reformed, which is primarily in the order of the existing solidarity system. Whether today the 24th article of the Constitution, in part two of which is written in black, reads: "There can be no privileges or restrictions based on the signs of race, colour of skin, political, regional and other beliefs, sex, ethnic and social origin, property status, place of residence, language or other signs, presence alongside the basic pension law on compulsory general government pension insurance, more than 10 other laws governing the pension provision of special categories of pensioners. With its rules on the definition of salary to calculate pensions, it is the order in which pensions are calculated for non-working retirees and other benefits, which only highlights inequality in society. What are these not privileges for individual categories of citizens? So the existing solidarity pension system has a strong corporate caste character and is a model of social injustice and a reflection of the state's demeaning attitude towards those people who, by their work, created material goods, raised, taught the growing generation, treated people, and so on. The bill under discussion is trying to change the existing pension system, which, by its social nature, is extremely discriminatory with regard to most Ukrainian citizens. The moral obligation of any national MP, a government official, regardless of the political outlook, to change the existing pension policy towards a more just and harmonious distribution of the pension fund's funds according to the pensioner's pensioner's insurance and the salary he receives for the maximum period available to calculate. A few words about the observations of scientific management. First of all, this bill does not abolish the right to receive a pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u174	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u175	The laws. Second, there is no mention of the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. As a matter of fact, we are. As mentioned above, the pension system needs reform. And for me, and for all of our Ukraine, it was clear since December 1, 2009, when the bill was registered, as a result of thousands of references, as a result of a series of rallies that rolled through Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u176	Thank you. That's a little bit of politics. Please sit down. You said the basic point, and then you started the agitation on the other side. Not really, not always, not always, not always. Politics is, but within time. Yes, please, from the Committee of Mayor Ulyan Mikolayevna. And I'm once again focusing on the heads of the committees. The committees make decisions about one reporter, then the committee head makes changes on his own without informing anyone. Let's not let that happen. Please, Uljana Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u177	Master Ulyana Mikolayevna, Faction of the Fatherland. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Kulczynski and Skutjak, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Cancellation of Privileges in Retirement, discussed at its meeting on September 8, 2010. As the rapporteur has already said, the bill aims to abolish the pension security privileges that are provided for certain categories of persons — civil servants, judges, prosecutors, national deputies. In general, in support of the idea of the need for a reasonable ratio of pensions, as envisaged by the 102 ILO Convention, the Committee has stressed that the way in which this objective is achieved, as proposed in the bill, will not only not solve the problem but will lead to an even greater increase in this issue. Yes, the repeal of paragraph 13 of the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine "On a compulsory State Pension Insurance", which stipulates that if a person is entitled to a pension under a number of laws, only one pension is granted, the establishment by law of rules that persons entitled to a pension under special laws are assigned pensions in accordance with the Ukrainian Law "On a General Compulsory State Pension Insurance" does not essentially resolve the issue. Since the laws of Ukraine "For the State Service", "For the Scientific and Scientific Technical Activities", "For the Prosecutor's Office", "For the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine" in part of the pension provision of the relevant categories of persons remain valid. Appropriately, the adoption of this bill will lead to collegiates in legislation, while both of them act against each other at the same time. What the bill foresees for six months is to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine appropriate proposals for bringing in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u178	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u179	standards don't solve the issue. Therefore, given the fact that the Committee on Legal Policy points out that the bill violates articles 22, 46, 48, 64 and 150 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council has proposed that the bill be rejected. Our committee decided to submit the bill to the legislators for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u180	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? I see the Dry one, yes. Please sign up. Please, Alexei's Igor. None. Carpuk Vladimir, please. You'll have one minute later, Catherine Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u181	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". You can understand Mikola Georgievich Kulczynski, who has submitted this bill at the numerous requests of people who meet people because the inequalities that are in the pension provision of different categories of people are, of course, a lot of questions. Yet there are a lot of objections and scientific expertise, and we have already heard the opinion of the committee and other committees that, in fact, these legislative initiatives should not fail, we should send this bill for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u182	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, let's put a dot in this room once in a while on this subject that has to be built up from time to time. Well, let's not confuse social benefits, social benefits, and social compensation. Me, here I know in the session room there are former governors like me. I've had enough to figure out what public service is. Dear, the restrictions on the civil servant, the need to work outside of KZOT, on Sunday, on the holidays, it doesn't matter, it's compensation for such a pension. If you don't believe me, please ask the board, the board, and ask them what their salaries are for these senior executives, the heads of management. Ask them how they work and what restrictions they have on their families. Now, the main thing that I asked for is this rostrum. I'm not comfortable with it when the Ukrainian National Deputies begin to see their pensions and how, if all the deputies, and now 680 of them, our pensioners, who were in this room with us and who are now, if they were all dead, would be very happy. Please remember, 13.7 million men, the pensioners of the Ukrainian national deputies, if they did not receive, would receive 6 copies each pensioner. That'll save the pension fund's budget? And the judges are even less. Soldiers are many, so soldiers go to military service to earn their service for years and retire. And one more thing. Fellow members of the profile committee, do you not know that there are five types, five types of pensions in Ukraine, and not just an old - age pension? The loss of a breadwinner and a social pension, a disability pension -- we can't mix everything up. There may have been good intentions and good intentions for the author of the bill, but it came out of the whole bill. Let's look at pension reform issues in an integrated way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u184	Please, Samolik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u185	Thank you for your word. What I'm saying is that yesterday we had a public hearing in the town of Herson on the issue of pension reform. And I'm saying today, and I'm passing on people's opinions, and they're better understanding and not disposing of this reform, and they're not dealing with demagogy. And people are asking the question, we need a pension reform, but we're in charge of getting the salary out of the shadows. We want the pension to be solid so that people don't survive, but we can live on it normally. We are responsible for those who do not mold and work as slaves do. And so on. Here's what we need to ask and deal with. In Odessa three circuits were held with a round table, which was run by Tihypco. Six appointed people have spoken out, you're right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u186	Question completed. One minute then, Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! The faction will vote in favour of this bill for one reason. Whatever anyone says, no matter how much we protect a category that falls under a special pension scheme, people are good, let's see what's going on in the world, why the people are up. The people rose for basic things, for justice, for equality, so that we did not have privileged and special castes. Even after the pension reform, which will, of course, be voted in this room, the pension in white collars will be 10 times higher than those in today's 90 percent, I'm sorry. Is that fair? Is that what people support? Therefore, the bill is imperfect, and there is a procedure for second reading. Let's support it, but let's move towards where the whole world is going now, the whole world is following the issues of justice and equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u188	Question completed. I'm voting on the draft law on the abolition of pension benefits. [[Registration number 5391]] The committee is to re-establish the subject of the right to work, and the chief scientific expert is proposing to reject the bill. Taking into account the discussion, please make a decision. Vote. [[13:39:03]] For-57 Not supported. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Party of regions – no votes, BUT – 33, "Our Ukraine" – 19, no communists – no reforms – 1, the People's Party – did not vote, non-fractional – 4. Those who say "oh" should secure the vote, not 30 or 40 votes. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 376 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, registration number 7279, is under consideration. [[on Self - Building]] Under the reduced procedure, there is a proposal. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:39:58]] For 208 Supported. I can't see the author of the initiative, Karmazin. Please, from the Zabarski Committee Vladislav Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u189	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! At its meeting, the Committee on Legal Policy considered the draft Law amending article 376 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, submitted by the People’s Deputies Karmazin, Bebazenk, Miroshnichenko. The bill proposes to improve the mechanism for the recognition of ownership of self-constructed immovable property, as well as the security against unauthorized land construction of the natural reserve fund and other conservation, historical and forestry purposes, as well as the State's water fund, by means of a new edition of the Civil Code. During the committee’s consideration of the bill, it was pointed out that the project was a thorough solution to the problem of self - destruction of the state’s land. The bill allows for future control at the state level of land forgetfulness in Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the idea of the drafters of the bill and expresses its position on the adoption of the bill on the basis of observations and suggestions. The Committee agrees with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and believes that the proposed amendments will contribute to the protection of the rights of landowners corresponding to the provisions of chapters I and III of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as to the protection of the country's land fund, which is protected by article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending article 376 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, based on the first reading, to be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u190	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Nobody insists? So, besides Knazevitch, there's no more? Okay. Then please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, I just wanted to say that since Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin is a representative of our faction, but he's not in the hall right now, it would be logical for the faction to say at least what the idea of this bill is. The point is that a corresponding amendment to article 376 of the current Civil Code of Ukraine is intended to provide that in court proceedings the right to property, which is built on a particular land area, is granted only to the person who has the appropriate ownership documents for the land. That's the main thing for me right now. From this point of view, I think that everyone in the session room has encountered such things when we have cases where the land belongs to one person, whether it's physical or legal, builds property there -- and then legalizes property for that property in court. And that person whose land is under this property no longer has access to his own property. The other one. It is predicted that it cannot be built by itself, and there is a definite requirement at last in the Civil Code, on the lands of conservation, nature-preservation, historical culture, water and forest agriculture. As long as we don't settle these issues, but unfortunately, we haven't been able to get our hands on it in the Civil Code. In view of these circumstances, it is also very important that in that case, if a property has been built by itself in these areas, it is unappealable to be destroyed, that is, destroyed. If, for example, there is agreement that such property will remain on this earth, but it is built with a breach of certain standards, such as building blocks, which may result in damage to or damage to persons living there or near them, then the law provides that such a person should properly bring the property into line with the established standards. If she refuses to do so, this property will be subject to court procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u192	Thank you. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of the Amendments to Article 376 of the Civil Code, registration number 7279. Please support Karmazin’s offer and other national deputies. [[13:45:05]] For-68 Not supported. The bill was unfortunately rejected. Although there are various factions in this bill. Who's for re-reading the first reading, please. No, not for a second, but for work. Please vote. [[13:45:40.]] For 276 The bill is aimed at further development. We are considering a draft Act amending article 56 of the master procedural code of Ukraine. [[about the order in which to send a copy of the application]] Registration number 4546. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:46:15]] For 204 Please, Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich. Get ready for Lepoczenia.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u193	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Party of Regions. I'm going to give you a very brief explanation of the content of this bill. It's simple. The point is that when a lawsuit is brought before a household court, the law requires that the application be brought before a court of law, and the need to inform the other parties in writing that such action is brought before a court of law. But it is not defined in what form it is necessary to do so. And very often there are cases where such information does not actually happen, and that's why the content of this law is to predict in what form this is taking place, namely by a letter of declared value describing the investment or by handing it over so that the other parties who are going to be in the process know that such action has been made and that it is in order for them to prepare their position and to present it in a court of law. It's a simple bill, it provides for the completion of 56 articles of the Code of Commerce and Procedure. Please support, he's smart, he's not politicized, he provides for the protection of citizens' rights in the course of the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u194	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Justice, Julia Volodymyrovny Ljovczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u195	The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice discussed at its meeting on 15 November 2010 the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 56 of the Ukrainian Code of Master and Procedural Procedure. The People’s Peacekeeper’s Project is proposed to supplement the Master’s Procedural Code with a rule that the late application should be sent to the parties by a letter of declared value describing the investment or should be served under the notice. The only point to the bill is the proposal to improve the mechanism for sending copies of the application to the household, by unifying the proposed standard with other procedural codes. In particular, they have determined that copies of the application should not be sent to the parties, and the court, in the event of a decision, decided to open the case with that approval. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Ministry of Justice are proposing to return this bill to work, and the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine are supporting the legislative initiative. In view of the fact that the bill deserves support, since other legislative proposals do not exist at this time to resolve the problem, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt Bill No. 4546 as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u196	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Please, Princeyevitch, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u197	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The point is, in fact, there is this problem, I think that anyone who has had the opportunity to be in a business, let's say, process and submit appropriate external applications or have participated appropriately as a respondent party, knows that there is such a problem. Recently, by the way, I was approached by people when they found out what was going to happen and they had to give an actual answer in the back of their explanation of the complaint. In view of this, I think that Yuri Romanovich here will agree that the standard of what we have to hand over, let's say, under the receipt of the party, she's dead, she won't act. Believe me, the parties who have already decided to have some sort of farmwork in the trial will never agree to hand each other over in peace, let's say, to tender. So the most effective mechanism, however, will be to send a letter of declared value, and that will be enough in this case. The other question is that we have to somehow unify these things, it's no big deal if there was a double court, Yuri Romanovich. Because this might happen, you know, they'll send me to that address, or they'll do anything to make sure all the documents don't get there and so on. But if the court duplicates, at least another defendant will be able to compare either the plaintiff or, perhaps, the prosecutor, as you suggest, have in some cases treated his or her involvement properly. So I think in this case we just have to listen to the Scientific and Expert Office and take that into account in the second reading, so that we don't have to have too much regret that we only authorize the plaintiff, and he turns out to be in bad conscience, no one can ever control it. And the defendant will then appeal about something, but it will not be enough and much later, because he will not be able to prepare properly for trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u198	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 56 of the Ukrainian Code of Commerce and Procedure. [[Registration number 4546]] Please vote. [[13:52:06]] For 252 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the costs of executing justice by administrative courts. [[Registration number 5284]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:52:40]] For 211 Please, Pritica.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! The draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the costs of the administration of justice by Administrative Courts No. 5284 was introduced by me as early as October 2009. At the time, the funding of the administrative courts was very unsatisfactory. Today, the funding situation for the courts is regulated by the Ukrainian Judicial and Judicial Act, which was adopted by Parliament last July. This law amends all procedural codes. The only payment order for government duties has been established, including the provision for the introduction of an automated documentary system in the courts. So the need for adoption of Bill 5284 today has fallen away, and I have to call it off. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Reasonable. I am proposing to withdraw from the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the costs of executing justice by administrative courts. [[Registration number 5284]] Because these questions are already settled. Please vote. [[13:54:14]] For 277 Decision taken. The bill was removed. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles of State Control in the Field of Economic Activity, registration number 2779. [[on the non-proliferation of the Act by means of sanitary and epidemiological supervision and control of the quality of medical devices]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:54:56]] For 233 Decision supported. Mr. Haydaev Yuri Aleksandrovich, please. The committee is Crawchenko Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u201	In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, man, his life, and his health are recognized as the highest social value, and every citizen has the right to health protection. Furthermore, according to the requirements of part three of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine when new laws are adopted to amend, the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens are not restricted. The Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Control in the Field of Economic Activity, which became effective in 2007, establishes a certain order of inspection by control bodies. The basic requirement of the law is the obligation of the host subject to a written report on the conduct of the check 10 days before the date on which it was carried out. This requirement has a significant impact on the effectiveness and quality of the inspection, as it is possible to avoid control and oversight by subjects. It also makes it impossible to obtain objective results in the conduct of state san.epid.control and State quality control of medical devices, which is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in Ukraine a large number of counterfeit medicines are now being implemented, which are not effective in treating and sometimes dangerous to human health. A large number of food poisonings, intestinal infections, occur when they are ingested into foods that are poor and that are produced in violation of health standards in food establishments. Absence. Regrettably, testing creates an impression of imaginary sanitation. I believe that the proposed changes are extremely relevant and will remove the formality of state control on the issue of sanepidemic control and control of the quality of medical devices. Our citizens need to be sure of safe living conditions and only get quality products and effective and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u202	Finish it, Yuri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u203	Considering that the bill I submitted in 2008, I propose to change the date of its entry into force from the date of publication. Please support the proposed bill and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u204	Have a seat, please. Yes, from the committee the first deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 20 October 2010, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity (on non-proliferation of the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles of State Control in the Field of Economic Activity) under the supervision of national health and epidemiological supervision of the quality of medical devices, sanitary control) (Registration No. 2779), submitted by National Deputy Haydajev. The purpose of the bill is to comply with the requirements of article 3 and part of the first article of article 49 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The main scientific and expert office, in its conclusion, turned the author on. suggests that the author return to work with the comments made. The committee decided by majority to submit a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and suggested that it be accepted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u206	Thank you. Yes, please sign in. Karpuk Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u207	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. I understand that we want to reduce deregulation and reduce the number of organs that control. But I'll give you one digit, think about it. Recently, a number was cited at the College of the Committee on the Quality Control of Medical Devices and Drug Traffic. In 2010, the Ukrainians consumed one billion 187 million packages of drugs. The official number of counterfeit drugs is only 1-2 percent, and we're proud that it's at the level of the best European or world samples. Yet, practice shows that the number of these drugs is much higher. In Ukraine, more than 22,000 drug - management organizations are operating. Clearly, if we assign these tests and report them in 10 days, we will not have any counterfeits. At the same time, practice shows and this has been revealed in the city of Vasilkovi in the Kyiv region, when the entire work was done, which produced counterfeit products and only once removed drugs for more than 7 million dollars. The legislative initiative, therefore, is timely. And I think that's going to take this bill as a basis and work for it to really be a good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u208	Thank you. There's a proposal to support the bill, more so, dear colleagues, I would like to stress once again that this is about strict control over the drugs that we're taking with you. That's the first one. The other one. I don't want to be loud, but you know, when you do a drug test, which is supposed to be drugs in most cases or in a large number of cases, it doesn't have anything to do with drugs, well, it's not harmful. But what does not help is also a fact. And I think it would be right if we gave back the right of an epidemiology service to exercise stricter control over the quality of drugs. I'm asking you to support this bill. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles of State Control, Control in the Field of Economic Activity. [[on the non-proliferation of this law in the implementation of sanitary and epidemiological supervision and control of the quality of medical devices]] But the word "non-proliferation" means vice versa, that is, that they should influence this situation. I ask you to vote. [[2:02:52]] For 253 Thank you. Too bad some factions don't want to vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! The faction? Please. The Regional Party – 174, "BUT – "Fathership" – 3, "Our Ukraine" – 8, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 14, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 9. Dear colleagues, we have four bills left, four bills left. () [[B in m in s a l in]] There's an offer to consider them, and at that end of the session, I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in charge of continuing the morning session to consider all matters and not having an evening meeting? Please be supportive. [[14:03:59]] For 248 We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. [[on the right of a natural person to engage in entrepreneurial activities without an identification number]] [[Registration number 5291]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please. [[14:04:34]] For 197 Supported. Please, Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich. Prepare Kseniya Lupini.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u209	Honorary colleagues, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Law on State Registration of 30.10.2009, removes the existing legislation’s collegiate effect on its extensive reform and brings it into line with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Tax Code. The Ukrainian Tax Code provides for the possibility of counting citizens who, because of their religious beliefs, refuse to accept the identification code, their surname, their name, their father’s name, their serial number, and their passport number. [[Article 63, paragraph 6]] However, part two of article 17 of the Law on the Registration of a Legal Person defined the need for an identification number for the founders of the registration number of the account card, the tax payer card and for the natural persons who are chosen to represent this legal person. [[person]] Ukraine's economic legislation guarantees citizens the right to work, including business, without identification code, registration number of the account card, but also requires their presence to register this activity. Nonsensus, which is in contravention of the accepted Tax Code. As a co-chair of the interfractional parliamentary association to support the Canonic Orthodox Church over the past six months, I have received over 8,000 petitions signed by more than 30 Ukrainian citizens asking for legal protection of the right of citizens to operate without an identification code and its substitutes. These letters can be used to fill this rostrum. The solution to this question requires paragraph 4 of the Final Provisions of 1 January of this year's Tax Code, which states that Kabmin, together with interested religious organizations, should develop a programme and make proposals to the Supreme Council on alternative citizens' accounting. The bill is supported by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority for adoption in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u210	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u211	And I ask you to support it with the extension and commission of preparation for the second reading by December 2011 until the end of the working group at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the development of an alternative system for the calculation of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u212	Thank you. From the committee of Xenius Michael Leipzig. Please be the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u213	Thank you, Your Honor. The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship held on 20 October 2010 considered the bill. Members of the committee share the author's position on restoring equality of citizens in the economic sphere, regardless of their religious beliefs. But I want to turn around. And there's the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority that the bill in question can really be accepted as a basis. But I want to focus on what we need to do in the second reading, it can be done, it can be worked out as a minimum of terminology. I remind you, in the Tax Code, we don't have an I.D. anymore, we already have the registration card number of the taxpayer, something like that now. Therefore, in fact, the corresponding text should simply be brought into line with the terminology of the Tax Code, well, in addition to bringing the Law on State Registration into line with the terminology of the Tax Code. But in general, the idea is divided, so we're actually suggesting that we take it as a basis and make the second reading fit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u214	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? I think it's clear here, dear colleagues. And we're going to do the right thing with you if we support this proposal. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. Take down the vote. Sign up. Please, Popescu. Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u215	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that very often we are being approached by our constituents, who were constantly trying to allow them to give up the identification code. What does this bill propose? The bill proposes to amend articles 17, 21, 22, 42 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons, which, in addition to the established rights of citizens who, because of their religious and other beliefs, have renounced the adoption of the identification code and have been marked in the passport, to carry out entrepreneurial activities as a natural person, an entrepreneur without an identification code also has the right to establish legal enterprises and to form part of their governing bodies. Not only will we allow believers to give up the identification code, we will also allow them to do even more entrepreneurial work, which will ultimately also have an economic impact, especially at the local level. Please be supportive. And a party of regions will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u216	John the Rabbit. Knyazevich Ruslan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u217	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich, for the word. Dear colleagues, there are certain fears here. I think we should really discuss this scepticism here in some detail. I am convinced that, indeed, there are people who believe, who have certain beliefs, that this number prevents them from living properly and, let's say, showing their own attitude to a particular, one religion or another. But we have examples, quite common, of serious abuse of this kind of action, where, under cover, let's say, belonging to a particular religion and religious belief, people are making serious business financial transactions, and accurately controlling the flow of funds, and what they're doing after they've gone through is actually not possible. In fact, the situation is that we have the only body that regulates all of these processes, and is the supervisor, that is, the controller of any financial operation in the country, solely by the identification code. If you don't have that code or if you use, say, passports or any other code, you just can't control these things by definition. Therefore, if such a proposal is to be made, appropriate changes should be made to the authority’s authority and it should be able to control the passage of funds by other means, including those proposed in the law. So it doesn't happen that this rule is given here, and it's impossible to control these things by definition. In view of these circumstances, I think that if this bill is to be adopted, it needs to be thoroughly worked out so that we do not find ourselves in a position to benefit from the intentions of actually protecting the interests of certain believers, we will protect the interests of those who abuse and their right to fair competition and, worse, blaspheme because they use the feelings of truly believing people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u218	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u219	Thank you. I would like to point out that, you know, when suddenly they start to believe, especially entrepreneurs, especially the heads of the National Bank of Ukraine, that the identification code is the number of devils, I have some doubts about many things, and in the competence of these people, who have neither grown nor fallen, have become familiar with the concept that everyone needs to be there, everyone will be their number. And plus that touches, I'd like to emphasize, almost one, governing religion about who refuses and who doesn't want to have identification codes. I think it's just a matter of state security under the circumstances. It's not just a question of holdingFinmonitoring. I know that there have been changes to the Tax Code and so on. This is the creation of selective control capabilities. So all the other structures that haven't paid or paid off to the right officials will be taken away, and they'll be controlled, and they'll put pressure on people, on entrepreneurs. I think there's a normal process, there's a situation where there's a clear structure at the expense of money circulation in Ukraine. There is no alternative, but there is some kind of mythical development of a group that will work until 2011. So I think, under the circumstances, you just have to say honestly, if you want to, let's say, uncontrollablely operate on funds, you don't have to refer to God and the devil here, you just have to understand that if you want to steal, because any means you can use here, you can use them, but you don't have to speculate on them, because it's going to turn bad anyway. Destroying the state system, destroying the state of Ukraine, it's easy for you, you can do it, but don't rush, you might need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u220	Mr. Blackwall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u221	You know, we've come up with a great category of believers -- I don't have a view of the drafters here, but actually of those who use these standards -- who have never been in a church before and never read, not the Gospel, not the Bible, not the Old Testament, not the New Testament. So I want to remind them of the phrase that Jesus Christ said, "Give to God the gods, and Caesar the Caesars," which is clearly the answer to all that is being put into this bill today. There is what is given to God — faith, and there is what is involved in paying taxes, and it is quite specific in this case that Christianity was the basis. Work in the same rules as the State, which are necessary for the State to secure its financial powers, in front of the same representatives, including religion. So if you want to vote in favour of this law, reject this paragraph, about some sort of conversion of believers, because in such a case as a state that has to treat everyone equally, we have to react in the same way literally, let's say, to the same embassy or consulate of God that requires their shepherd and trusted people to be able to rob and deceive people, what makes them worse by our legislation and so on? So let's just be honest, the law was introduced earlier, already reflected in Ukrainian legislation, and is now being added in some of the paragraphs, especially so that someone can do big financial equipment and not pay to the state, despite one of the major Christian postulates that clearly distinguishes it. And every darko that we're trying to wind up here seems to me very clearly to be contradicted by the same position of the Russian Orthodox Church in Russia itself, where taxes are to be paid by all. Where the long, distinct hierarchy of the Russian Orthodox Church gets all the proper identification codes and lives by law, and we have certain, subtle combinations, it's like it's religious.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u222	Zarubinsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u223	Dear colleagues! We have to divide the question into two parts. It is clear that nowhere in the Scriptures or in religious canons is the identification code. There's no number of Satan at all, it's all fiction and it's perfectly clear who did a little bit of religion. But there's a second part, if there's people who are convinced of it, and if these people are going to do it, and we're going to go to the point where they have an identification code in the form of passport data, which is clear, which can't be repeated, which is what we're raising, frankly. I mean, if a person can be clearly identified, including in legal relations, in business relations, according to the number of her passport series, what's the problem here. Although from the religious point of view, of course, there are big questions about where it came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, let's not politicize the issue, it's understandable, we'll support it with voices. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs. [[Registration number 5291]] Please vote. [[14:18:09]] For 245 Adopted in the first reading. We should now consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Collective Contracts and Agreements to strengthen the legal and socio-economic protection of students. [[Registration number 6661]] The author of the bill, Pinchuk Andriy Pavlovich, asks that it be withdrawn. Please support this proposal. [[14:18:55]] For 252 The bill has been revoked. A light microphone, not for voting reasons, but because you showed up at work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u225	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, for seeing me at work. I would like to draw the attention of the citizens of the country who are monitoring the work of our Parliament. What kind of bill was just removed from the consideration? On strengthening the legal and socio-economic protection of students. It was in this bill to supplement the standard on where to predict that one should not be viewed unilaterally to pay students for their studies. And now this bill is off-limits. I think it's completely wrong, but it's very urgent to consider this bill, and it's been there for a long time in the Supreme Council and since the sixth session. And literally yesterday, the students came to the Supreme Council and expressed their indignation at politicians, including the financial situation regarding them. And we take, more precisely, most people take, remove this bill from consideration. We need to support our students rather than avoid solving their problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u226	Thank you. But respectable colleagues need to be read before speaking. There's absolutely nothing you're talking about. Whatever you're talking about, don't do it. It is being considered that I have already pointed out that what colleague Lazko said does not correspond to the reality of the bill does not. And the author's right to withdraw him, we made a decision. A bill on financial support for orphans and children deprived of parental care. [[Registration number 5073]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[14:21:03]] For 214 Supported. Yes, the bill's author, Hubsky Bogdan. No, not since the committee then the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Mr. Stanislaw Mikhajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u227	Adam Ivanovich, why don't you give me a minute, considering there's no author for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u228	You'll be fine in two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u229	Okay. Dear National Deputies! At our session we discussed Bill 5073 on financial support for orphans and children deprived of parental care. [[author - Hubby]] The bill proposes to open personal deposit accounts for orphans and children who are deprived of bank custody. Oh, I'm sorry, parental care, which will accumulate financial costs and account for interest. The sources of the funds coming from these accounts are the special deductions from the excise collection of goods produced in Ukraine and the excise collection for goods imported into Ukraine. The bill is foreshadowed by state banks as defined by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is about, well, as an example, the annual revenues from the excise congregations amount to more than 10 billion. Accordingly, 1 percent, which is planned, is going to be 100 million deductions for all of these deposit accounts, and on the average it's going to be about 1,000 per bill. The Science and Experimental Authority proposes to reject the bill. It motivates our country to have a special law since 2005, which is the Law on Investment and Legal Protection of Children, which defines the same things. The Cabinet of Ministers is proposing to reject this bill. The Ministry of Youth Affairs also does not share this bill, considering that it is entrusted with its responsibilities. Nor does the National Bank of Ukraine support this bill as one that is contrary to civil and banking legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u230	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u231	The State Export and Import Bank and Savings Bank, who seem interested in stockpiling such resources, are also denying, because it undermines banking rules and civil legislation. And given all these comments, our committee has decided to propose to you to send this bill for further work, and perhaps to think about its proposals to be included in the current law, which is, as it were, the same subject of child control and custody. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u232	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Sign up. Pussy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u233	We, members of the committee and factions, share the author's desire to improve this vulnerable category of children's social security. But the bill of such a plan, which deals with tens of millions of bracelets, must be harmonized with all other bills. Therefore, by sharing his idea, his philosophy, we cannot support him because he is technically and technologically unfulfilled.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u234	Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u235	Thank you. I want to say that we're not the first to consider this issue. About 10 years ago, by the way, at the initiative of the Ministry of Family Affairs, young people and sports, we considered the matter. But then the bill was more, you know, balanced. And this bill doesn't even match the name. We have a basic bill called the provision of organisational legal conditions, social protection for orphans and children deprived of parental care. We adopted it in 2005 and, indeed, it would be absolutely right if the drafters had studied the bill and amended it. I'm just saying, you don't have to get away from this problem because it's just a low-security and defenseless category of children. And if you're ever dating orphans, you know that earlier, after a children's home or boarding school, these kids could at least live in labor homes, and now they're deprived of everything. They're state children, they're supposed to be taken care of by the state. And I'd like to wish the author a bill that, if there is, I don't think he's in this session hall, that he's still going to work out and make changes to the main law that applies to orphans. But once again, ladies and gentlemen of the bankers, you want to or you don't want to, but for the state's children, the state has to take care of it. That standards should be balanced, I agree, but you don't have to smile when you're swimming in green.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u236	Question completed. I'm voting on a proposal for support in the first reading of a bill on financial support for orphans and children deprived of parental care. [[by number 5073]] [[14:27:51]] For-27 There was an offer to send for work and the right ones here were ideas that really needed to be supported, but put it in another legally correct version. Please support the process. [[14:28:24]] For-59 Unfortunately, the bill has been rejected. We are considering the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Banking and Banking, Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich. [[defining the characteristics of corporate governance in banks]] [[Registration number 6545]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. [[14:29:00]] For 203 Supported. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u237	The bill had been drafted because in individual banks, the authorities did not perform the functions assigned to them. And part of the crisis that has arisen in our country since 2008, which has affected the financial sector, it is. Because the banking authorities were not working at the appropriate level. What is it? That the government, with too much authority, the executive body, was in pursuit of the results of a mythical loan that was unwarranted and, of course, not extinguished. The bill was therefore more detailed, and all bank administrations were more clearly reviewed. One. Secondly, he expanded the powers of the monitoring body, the monitoring board, and decided, unfortunately, that there was a council in the individual banks, there was a monitoring board in the other bank, and there was a board of directors in the third bank. The bill provides the opportunity for all these authorities to be working, but obliges those authorities to have further greater powers to monitor bank management. That's the first one. Second. There is no legal responsibility for the administration. This bill introduces additional responsibility for the members of the monitoring board and obliges them to consider their responsibility and, more importantly, enables them to file claims against members of the monitoring boards who are performing their duties improperly, rather than causing losses to banks, such as, of course, bank investors. That's two. I would like to refer to the comments of the expert management. If I may, briefly, literally, two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u238	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u239	One of the comments. They will have to be taken into account in the finalization of the second reading. Individual comments, I would not agree with them, for example, here in the expert management's comment that it is constructive to approach different types of societies where banks may exist. Banks exist under the current law only in one form of activity, an open equity society. It doesn't have to change, it has to be left behind. Therefore, this system, the law, is prescribed for this type of “discovery” shareholder society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u240	Thank you. Please, from the committee, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Pecklesenko Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u241	Respectable colleagues, respected voters, the bill is one of those bills that strengthens investor rights and which undermines the full potential of disadvantaged banks. The bill was therefore before the Committee. The Committee finds that the adoption of the bill will enhance the efficiency of corporate governance in banks, including risk management, the development of internal procedures banks, taking into account the size and specific nature of each individual bank, which should in turn protect the interests of bank participants, principally investors and bank creditors. The relevant monitoring mechanisms for the bank's activities are also being improved. The Committee recommends that the bill be supported and adopted on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u242	Thank you. Besides Argentina, who wants to participate? Two, yes. Let's log in then, please. Where banks are, there's activity. Please, Eden.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u243	Dear Adam Ivanovich, One, faction of the Party of the Regions. The bill is quite positive to ensure the protection of the interests of investors and creditors of banks, by improving the responsibility of bank managers for the results of their activities, and by creating effective risk management mechanisms. The changes proposed in the bill are called upon to improve the owner’s relationship with the bank. Very often, owners who own a large share of the shares have an impact on the management of the business decision bank, with the legal liability of the owner not being held liable, and the hostages of the decision taken in the case of the bank's losses may be its investors. Thus, the implementation of the bill in practice will create preconditions for the protection, first and foremost, of investor interests and improve bank ratings, enhance their attractiveness to foreign investors and contribute to the restoration of the population's confidence in the banking system. So I propose to adopt the bill as a basis, and in the second reading procedure, to redraft it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u244	Please, the Prince is passing it on to Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u245	I'd like you to give Arjevetine a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u246	The important national MPs, indeed, are the purpose of the bill, which is to bring the stock issue into line with the banking system in accordance with the Act on Shareholder Associations. In fact, an attempt is made to regulate the correctness of the bank's management by dividing the functions between. corporate governance between the management and control of the bank. This is, indeed, yes, and there are reasonable suggestions, but not everything seems to be the right thing to do. Well, first of all, you have to figure out who's going to be in charge, whether it's the Banks and Banking Act, or the Shareholder Society Act, which is and will be in place. I don't think there's quite enough solution here to the issue of the obligation of bank credit. I think there are things where we still need to clarify the competence of the bank's board, because we can't go automatically to European standards or to their understanding of the management of society. I think we need to think about whether this is the kind of personal responsibility the heads of government have to be, because it's actually a shooter or Mr. Fuchs today, as you want to call it. We need to think about that. I think the refinements, the requirements that are being put into the governing bodies today, I think we need to think about them for the second reading. I think it also needs further study of the question, and whether it is necessary to give the National Bank extended powers as proposed. So in general, the bill is right for the first reading, but there is really something to think about in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u247	I would like to put a proposal to the vote on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Banking and Banking Act (registration number 6545). Please vote. [[14:37:19]] For 248 Copy that. And, dear colleagues, we are considering a bill amending the Ukrainian National Bank Act. [[on the organization of cash circulation]] [[Registration number 7127]] There's a short cut. Please be supportive. [[14:37:51]] For 216 Supported. Please, Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich. Get ready for Pellcake.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u248	This bill is very small, very short, it's only placed on two pages, you could see it. The first changes made to the National Bank of Ukraine Act relate to the clarification of the National Bank's authority to register and monitor payment systems. One. Including monitoring of payment systems abroad. Second. At present, the National Bank of Ukraine establishes the number of alternates of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. But life has shown that sometimes it is necessary or necessary to reduce the number of deputy heads of the National Bank of Ukraine, as we say they have done in ministries: no more than three, sometimes more should be done. In order to be able to do so quickly, it is possible to respond quickly to the development of the financial market. The bill proposes that the Government of the National Bank of Ukraine be delegated to the Head of Government of the National Bank of Ukraine. However, with mandatory agreement, the National Bank of Ukraine must be authorized by the National Council. And third. It concerns public distinctions: medals, medals and so on. The bill proposes that the issuance of these State awards be awarded only to the National Bank of Ukraine's Banking and Monetary Court. And naturally, given that this is not money, an issue that needs to be limited, some restrictions on the issuance of these orders and medals for the National Bank are proposed to be removed. It should be issued according to the number of awards issued in the country. Here's the whole law that I've reported to you in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u249	Thank you. Please, Hellhound Alexander Mikolayovich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u250	Respectable colleagues, according to counterpart Voropaev, are three main points. The first point is to strengthen monitoring of payment systems. The second is the issue of medals and awards. This must be the prerogative of the National Bank. So they don't make it in any back yard. The third question is the internal structure and internal state of the National Bank. With regard to the first question, I am confident that the more transparency in the work, the more secure the financial situation of the country and the budgetary area will be. Therefore, this law is precisely in the context of these tasks. Perhaps only one secret is the secret of a bank contribution with reservations to existing legislation. As for the question of deputies, I don't think it's a problem at all. Make sure they have as many deputies as they need. Most importantly, there are no troubled banks in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u251	Besides Arjevetin, don't they insist? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u252	Dear National Deputies! I would like to remind you that the bill is called changes to the National Bank in terms of the organization of cash circulation. And really, most of the text is focused on this technical nature of things. But it's clear that, as young people say, the fact is that this bill is now being cut down on the number of deputies to work at the National Bank. I'm not dividing this norm right now, and I appreciate it's for transparency, to strengthen the banking system, we need to determine the number of substitutes that have to work in the state of the National Bank. I'm not going to go any further, but please listen, at least, to the second reading with such an offer of mine. Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-01-m0.u253	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over, and I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine. [[on the organization of cash circulation]] Registration number 7127. Vote. [[14:43:01]] For 249 Supported proposal, the law was adopted in the first reading. Dear colleagues! The agenda for today has been completed, so I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council closed. We're not having an evening meeting. We're starting work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
