ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:31]] 373 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u2	In the morning session, what was missing? Well, give me that information now. Bull, right? Dear colleagues, I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the payment of wages to miners]] [[Registration number 9160]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Viktor Ivanovich Turmanov, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Budget Affairs Baranov Valerij Aleksijovich. Victor Ivanovich as the author proposes to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, right? Victor Ivanovich, you say that in the microphone for the protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u3	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! For your consideration, a draft law on the amendment of Ukraine is being tabled.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u4	One minute, Victor Ivanovich. You're offering to consider it as a reduced procedure, aren't you? Yeah. Tell us to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u5	Dear colleagues! The draft law has been prepared to balance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, I am voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Just a minute. [[16:04:08]] For-166 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, you have before you a draft law on the remuneration of miners and the provision of domestic fuel to workers in closed coal enterprises. The bill therefore provides for an increase in the financing of the coal industry of $1 billion under “State Support for Coal Enterprises” in part for the cost of coal 936 million ready-made products and under “Restructuring the Coal Industry” for the use of electricity and 100 per cent of carbon. In accordance with article 43, 48 of the Mining Act, it is proposed to cover the additional costs of the State budget by increasing this amount of income tax for enterprises. This bill was considered by the Committee on the Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. He supported the bill. The Main Budget Committee also supported Bill No. 9160 and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt it as a basis and as a whole. The Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance also supports the bill. Dear colleagues, please support the coal industry and coal miners of Ukraine and support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u8	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Valerius Alexiyovich Baranov, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u9	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! The Committee on Budget Affairs yesterday considered the bill 9160 and decided to support it, because the legislative proposal is intended to address the issue of the payment of wages to miners and to ensure that the population's income categories are fuel-efficient according to the requirements of the 43rd and 48th articles of the Mining Commission. The law. I'm not going to count all the benefits of this bill, I'm just going to say that, at the same time, the bill requires clarification and correction of the mistakes made to bring it into line with the regulatory and design requirements for amending the State Budget Act. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be supported. I ask you to support him and our decision to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u10	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for an exchange of information on this bill. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u11	Thank you. It's very good that the project was supported and the committee was in charge, but it didn't say if that's okay with it. I thought it was important to agree on that. It would be a good idea to know the government. This is the first time. And as for this category of workers, I think that here and there should be no boundaries, we need to go to the meeting and help this area and above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u12	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u13	I'll be brief, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP 'Reforms for the Future' will support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u14	To whom do you take the floor? He's taking it off. Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u15	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". I'm talking about raising wages for miners who work very hard. And it is good that the 2012 draft budget also provides significant amounts for these purposes. But this bill raises a number of questions, because the bill is called the 2011 State Budget of Ukraine. [[on the payment of wages to miners]] At the same time, the provisions of this bill are much broader, and the Coal and Torfodial Thoughts Restructuring Act is budgeted at 120 million, which are aimed at paying off the debt for electricity to coal industries over the past years. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd like to know what kind of enterprises these are and to whom these costs will be counted. Because we remember that in the spring we cancelled 24 billion dollars of debt from heat - generating enterprises, 70 percent of that amount was in the Donbas region. That's why these amounts, which are planned for 2012, are 9.5 billion dollars, are also 5 billion dollars for the restructuring of coal and peat industries. Thus, it is clear that the issue of the wages of miners is being addressed, and the solution is still a matter of lobbying. That's why I'm asking, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a request. To consider my question as a request to the Cabinet of Ministers to provide economic justifications and to tell the companies themselves what these funds will be directed at 120 million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u16	National MP Grivkowski, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u17	I refuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u18	He's refusing. It's supportive, right? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee. Oh, Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u19	Thank you, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, Peter Cibenko. Respectful colleagues are certainly one of those documents that were not just made at the right time but would have appeared much earlier. Of course, it needs to be supported. Especially in view of recent developments in certain processes related to the restructuring of energy consumption. We've all heard of statements made by the government, such as the Prime Minister, about increasing attention to coal industry, and of course the issue of improving the wages of miners in this situation is of particular magnitude. Thus, the faction hopes that these decisions will serve because the coal industry will have an additional chance of accelerated development, and then the cartridges will be able to solve a number of problems related to the provision of their families. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals. There is no objection to such a question? This is about the budget, about wage formation. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich, please don't deny it. Please. No money, no wages, no miners. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis and as a whole the draft law, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. I'm sorry. I'm voting on a proposal for acceptance as a basis and in general, taking into account the proposals made by the committee of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 on the payment of wages to miners. Registration number 9160. Please vote. [[16:12:55]] For 308. The law is passed. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to consider the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Violations of Information Protection Legislation with Limited Access, which is the property of the State. [[second reading]] [[Registration number 8490]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement has been prepared for the second reading of a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to strengthen responsibility for violations of restricted information legislation, which is the property of the State. The bill was adopted on June 14, 2011. 300 Ukrainian national deputies voted in favour. The project proposes to strengthen fines in article 212 with badges 2 and 212 bearing 5 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences 10-20 times in view of the inefficiency of valid scales. Many of the rules on administrative contractions are simply outdated, since their size has been set many years ago and has not been reviewed during this period. And today we have a situation where, for one offence, there's a fine of a thousand untaxed minimums, and for the other, there's a minimum of one. In general, three amendments were made to the bill. One count. Two were rejected, including one in view of the requirement of Article 116 of the Rules. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. The committee thus proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u22	Dear colleagues! Regarding the amendments. Andrew Shevchenk’s first amendment It's rejected. Andrew Shevchenko insists on this amendment? No, it's not. Amendment number two is Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u23	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I thought and I think Vladimir Mikolaiovich would give me an answer now, maybe I'll make a decision later. I think the increase in the fine might look a little out of line. Since article 53 of the Code defines fines for committing crimes between 30 and 1,000 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. According to the above, there are prerequisites for the application of more severe penalties for administrative misconduct than penalties for committing a crime. That's why I wanted to ask you how does the committee make this assessment of the relationship between criminal responsibility and administrative responsibility? That is, so that we don't have to be more responsible for administrative responsibility than criminal responsibility. I want to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u24	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! This committee discussion had its place and, of course, your amendment was such an evaluation, but the committee did not support it and was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u25	Dear colleagues! I'm betting on the vote for the amendment of the two Yuri Carmazins, please be sure. [[16:17:02]] For-33 Correction not supported. Amendment 3, it's counted. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. There is no central legal administration of the bill's observations. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt a second reading as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences to increase responsibility for violations of the legislation on the protection of information with restricted access, which is the property of the State. [[Registration number 8490]] Please vote. [[16:17:57]] For 274 The law is passed. Honourable People's Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the keeping of the mystery of confession]] [[Registration number 5335]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u26	Honourable Chairman, Honorary Fellows, Law Enforcement Committee is prepared for a second reading, submitted by National Deputy of Ukraine Volodymyr Marouchenko, of the draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the keeping of the mystery of confession]] The bill was adopted on the basis of June 14, 2011, and was voted in favour by 236 Ukrainian national deputies. The purpose of the draft law is to strengthen the protection of the rights of citizens, to ensure that the clergy are respected by the secret of confession, to remedy the shortcomings that exist in the area of legal regulation of the rights of those involved in the criminal process. And the project proposes to amend part one of article 69 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code by defining in paragraph 1 the following wording that lawyers and other professionals in the field of law who are entitled under the law to legal aid by a legal person: notaries, doctors, psychologists cannot be questioned as witnesses for what they are entrusted with or are known for their professional activities if they are not exempt in writing from the obligation to keep the professional secret of the person who has entrusted them with this information. It is also proposed to complete part of one article 69 of the Criminal Procedure Code, paragraph 6, which states that the clergy cannot be questioned as witnesses for the information they receive during confession. There were four amendments to the bill, two of which were taken into account and two were rejected. The main legal administration has a point, but the committee believes that they relate to a wide range of problems and should be resolved in the course of comprehensive reform of criminal and procedural legislation. The committee thus proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. Please support the position of the committee. Thank you for your attention. After the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u27	I'm sorry. 1 amendment counted. 2 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin, rejected. Are you insisting on her, Yuri Anatolyovich? Oh, no? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u28	Yuri Carmazin. I don't insist on correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u31	3 Amendments, Danilenko, do you insist on it? No, it's not. 4 revisions counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u32	The circle is accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has spoken with confidence. I mean, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. The principal legal administration was concerned with observations. At the same time, the committee believes that they are irrelevant and unaccountable. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the keeping of the mystery of confession]] [[Registration number 5335]] Please vote. Vote. [[16:22:00]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Regional Party – 8, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 43, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 10, Communists – 0, Reforms for the Future – 1, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 5. Dear colleagues, the question is, why did we then adopt this bill in the first reading? We voted him out. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues! What may be a confession when the mystery of confession is broken? It was suggested that a legislative act should be adopted so as not to force those who were priests to report to people who had come and repented of God. () [[B in m in s a l in]] What, what? Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote a motion for a return to the draft law. So let's show mutual support here. I'm voting on a motion to return to the draft law. [[Registration number 5335]] Please vote. [[16:23:25]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the bill has been rejected, I understand that there are no votes to support it. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of immediate assistance to persons in danger of life and health. [[Registration number 7278]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u35	Dear colleagues! Please report, I don't see any suggestions, no suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u36	A committee on law enforcement was prepared for a second reading, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy to the Husar draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the provision of immediate assistance to persons in a life-threatening and healthy state]] The bill was adopted on the basis of May 31, 2011, in favour of 235 Ukrainian national deputies. The purpose of the draft law is to create conditions to prevent accidents, death of those in a helpless or otherwise life - threatening condition. Providing them with medical care and prevention of illegal acts, both on their part and on their part. The bill proposes to make appropriate changes to article 37 of the Basic Law of Ukraine on Health Protection and article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Militia. It is stated that medical personnel are obliged to provide the first emergency care to those suffering from acute illness, accident, helplessness, or other life - threatening conditions. In addition, the bill imposes an obligation on the police to ensure the delivery of persons who are in a helpless or otherwise life-threatening state to the nearest preventive care facility. There were seven amendments to the bill, four of them from the author himself, which greatly improved the bill. In general, all the amendments are taken into account in whole or in part. The Chief Legal Authority has no comment on the bill. The Committee believes that its standards will enhance guarantees of respect for fundamental human rights for life and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in second reading and in general as a law of Ukraine. The bill is also supported by the Health Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, the repairs are all taken into account. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. I am voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of immediate assistance to persons who are in a life-threatening and health-threatening condition in the second reading and in general as a law. [[Registration number 7278]] Please vote. [[16:27:16]] For-93 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing before the draft Act amending the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the use of judicial measures in the recognition and enforcement of decisions by a foreign court]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee, Julia Volodymyrovn Ljovczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u38	The Committee on Justice considered, at its second reading session, the draft Law of Ukraine amending the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, and elaborated it to take into account the comments and suggestions of the subject matter of the legislative initiative. [[on the use of judicial measures in the recognition and enforcement of decisions by a foreign court]] Eight amendments were made to the bill, three included, four taken into account, and one rejected. It should also be noted that the bill contained comments by the Chief Legal Authority. After considering the bill and its proposals, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u39	Yes. Dear colleagues! Amendment number one, Tolstenko. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yes. All other amendments are included. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading and generally as a law. The Chief Legal Authority has some comments to the bill that the committee disagrees with. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Act amending the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the use of judicial measures in the recognition and enforcement of decisions by a foreign court]] [[Project registration number 6316]] Please vote. [[16:29:29]] For 262 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I am bringing to your attention the draft Act amending Ukraine's legislative acts to ensure the cleanliness of territories. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk. The committee's offering. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich, about the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u40	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement considered the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 14 June 2011 on the area cleanliness. [[by number 5117]] The issue of cleanliness and order is certainly of great relevance, but the Committee considers it necessary to draw the attention of the Supreme Council to the fact that the issues raised in the bill today are regulated at the legislative level, particularly in the rule of law and the rule of law. Yes, at the disposal of article 152 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences is proposed. The bill is a violation of the rules of good offices and places of rest. In accordance with article 34 of the Ukrainian Act on the Advocacy of Human Settlements, the rule on the well-structured areas of the area inhabited by the rule of law, which establishes the order of well-being, the maintenance of the territory of the objects in good-natured condition. The rules themselves are designed for all villages, villages, and cities individually and are approved by the appropriate authorities of local self - government. Rather, neither in this nor in that draft law nor in other acts of legislation is there a zone of rest as a self-explanatory concept, and this is a violation of article 116 of the Ukrainian Act "Under the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". Next, article 1 of the Ukrainian Act "On the well-being of the populace" describes the definition of "territory", which includes recreational, health, educational, sports, historical and cultural objects among others. Given that article 152 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences is still in place, the article already covers the infringement of the rules on the well - being of the territories of the population, and therefore the application of article 152 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in the Drafting, proposed by the bill, causes contradictions. Therefore, making the proposed change is not appropriate. The bill also proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences with article 152, footnote 1, part one, which provides for the responsibility for minor violations of the rules of cleanliness in populated areas, zones of rest and other territories. As noted above, the concept of the "rest zone" in legislation is also not defined and therefore there is nothing to regulate in principle. In general, there are many comments, and in order to save time, based on the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine, the authorities of the local self - government exercise their powers, including those governing the issue of this law. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Supreme Council order of 14 June 2011 on the adoption of the draft Law should no longer be valid.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u41	Okay, okay, yeah. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes that the bill be withdrawn, that the motivation be given to the head of the committee, as well as to the materials given to you. I'm voting on the motion to withdraw. a proposal in the form of a draft Supreme Council Order on the withdrawal of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of legislative acts to ensure the cleanliness of territories. [[Registration number 5117/P1]] Please vote. [[16:34:15]] For 291 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, registration number 5164. [[on the prohibition of advertising, sponsorship and promotion of the sale of tobacco products]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Committee, Helen Konstantinovna Kondratuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Advertising Act, the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Prevent and Reduce the Use of Tobacco Products and Their Harmful Effects on Population Health, and the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. The Committee was given 72 amendments to the Rules. I will point out that the committee's consideration of the bill was preceded by the work of the working group I led, which was created by the Committee's decision in view of the resonance that took place after the adoption of the bill in the first reading. The drafting of the law in the working group took place in an atmosphere of heated debates, as the committee included representatives of anti-smoking public organizations and representatives of business associations, representatives of government authorities of different levels, independent experts, representatives of tobacco producers. Only the text of the comparative table with the suggestions and comments of the members of the working group consisted of 235 pages. But by making simple and fair European decisions, based on better world practice, by rejecting the lobbyism of manufacturers and firmly eliminating sentences that could create ambiguity and create conditions for petty corruption at all levels, we worked out, in our opinion, qualitative solutions. During the discussion, we will once again confirm the line of exclusion from the draft formulations that will allow control authorities to resort to entrepreneurs, abuse their powers and ensure that non-lethal media do not once again use the standards adopted in the European approach, and continue to circumvent the law. So to today’s bans and restrictions on tobacco advertising, you know tobacco. The committee added: the ban on tobacco advertising in any printed editions and printed media, even specialized ones; the ban on tobacco sponsorship not only by using tobacco labels and services that produce tobacco products themselves, but also by using a manufacturer, importer or wholesaler of tobacco; the ban on tobacco advertising by means of advertising measures other than specialized exhibitions that are only allowed by tobacco industry employees; the ban on tobacco advertising in places of mass political, educational, religious, sporting and non-fulfilment. There are restrictions on tobacco advertising on the Internet. The placement of images of tobacco products, signs of goods and services on any product is prohibited, except for objects related to the use of tobacco products — lighters and ashtrays. It is also proposed to prohibit such forms and methods of advertising as various games, games, lottery games, and competitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u43	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u44	distribution. and previous consent messages that contain information about tobacco products, via mail, e-mails, mobile phone messages. I will point out that this is far from a complete list of restrictions and restrictions on tobacco advertising, which is suggested to support the committee. In addition, by implementing the relevant positions of the WHO Framework Convention, the Committee proposes to limit the impact of tobacco companies on public policy. It is also suggested that administrative responsibility be put in place for violations of the relevant prohibitions and restrictions on tobacco advertising. Thus, according to the draft resolution, 16 amendments were taken into account at the meeting of the Committee, 14 amendments were partially taken into account, 5 amendments were taken into account, and 37 were rejected. In accordance with the decision of the committee approved at its meeting on 15 June, a draft of the Ukrainian Advertising Act was recommended on second reading and as a whole. [[Registration number 5164]] I'm asking you to support the position of the committee. Ready for the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Miroshenko's sixth amendment. Declined. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yes, the eighth amendment. Taras Cranville. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yes, Anatoly Kinah 13 amendment. No, it's not. It's the bruise of the 15th amendment. No, it's not. 16th Taras Blackwall. No, it's not. Dove 17. No, it's not. Sergey's Chevchuk 18th. No, it's not. 19 Amendment of Condratuk Oleni. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u46	This sponsorship is about television shows, the radio of theatre concerts, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u47	Dear colleagues! 19th Amendment, I'll read it: "sponsoring television broadcasts, theatre concerts, health, sports, cultural entertainment and other measures using signs for goods and services and other intellectual property rights objects that release tobacco products are prohibited." That's the right thing to do. Yes, there is an insistence on setting it up. May I have your attention, please? At the request of the people’s deputies, I place an amendment 19 on the vote to confirm it. It's counted by the committee. Please vote. Confirmation in the form in which it is included. [[16:40:57]] For 139 Correction not counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u48	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u49	Please. Just a minute. The 19th amendment is deleted. So one minute, 20 revisions are partially counted. Please, George Carmazin on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u50	Yuri Carmazin, distinguished national MPs! Now a terrible thing has happened. The majority in the person of Mr. Chechchev remove all the salt of this law. Because the 19th amendment applied precisely, and it was only partially counted so that they could not sponsor and what kind of advertising was done by tobacco sellers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u51	And so this is the 20th amendment that prohibits such activities from advertising alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, signs and so on, it's not entirely, it was more radical. Because of this, I want to say that we must now return, Vladimir Mikhailovich, all of us must realize the wrongness of our position, err and repent to the Ukrainian people. Stop serving the oligarchs, Mr. Chechetov! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u52	I don't know. Can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u53	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u54	I just understand that if we're actually going to start all of the amendments now, as we've been included in part, now we're going to start to reject them, then the whole law is lost as such. So that's why it doesn't make sense, I don't understand the logic that we're going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, I'm back. Dear colleagues, I ask you to approach this decision consciously once again. You and I, when we go to the Conciliation Council, as a minimum, we are given the appropriate feedback, the appeal, the insistence, so that we don't have to make decisions so that there isn't any increase in the advertising of alcohol, tobacco products. And that's exactly what people are asking. The nation is dying. Because when you watch TV in front of football, where alcoholic beverages are advertised, you want to quit and run to buy something. But that's not the end of life. So I would ask you, if we're conscious, let's make a conscious decision. There was a requirement to vote on the confirmation of Amendment 20. I have to put it on, and I have to put it on. And I'll put it to a vote, please. [[16:44:09]] For 313 The amendment is fully accounted for. Let's move on. Taras Chernobyl, 21st Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u56	It was partly accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u57	Let's move on. So, Taras Blackwall, you're not insisting on your amendments at all? No, it's not. Amendment 26. This is page 20. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u58	Yes. I ask you to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u59	Well, she was rejected because she was an alternative, Mr. Taras, to Amendment 29.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u60	Taras Vjačeslavovich, yes, are you filming?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u61	There are sub-paragraphs 4 and 5, they're just-- it's, it's just inappropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u62	It removes the insistence of a colleague. 27th, Dove. No, it's not. Blue, 28th. No, it's not. Kinach, 30th. No, it's not. Yes, Kinach, 37th. No, it's not. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, no. Myrrhichenko, 48th, insists? 47th Condratiuk. Please argue with your amendment, Helen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u63	I am, in principle, perfectly clear about article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Prevent and Reduce Tobacco Use and Their Harmful Effects on Population Health. Absolute specified everything that is not allowed. Please read, this is page 24 in the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u64	I'll read it. Article 16: "Restrictions of the influence of operators whose activities are linked to the tobacco industry on public policy regarding the prevention and reduction of tobacco use and its harmful effects on public health, operators whose activities relate to the production, wholesale and retail trade, export and import of tobacco products are prohibited from providing material, financial, organisational and other support to political parties, public authorities and local self-government authorities. Consumers whose activities are related to the production, wholesale and retail trade, export and import of tobacco products are carried out by information companies for the purpose of prevention of smoking, take other measures to warn and reduce the use of tobacco products and their harmful effects on public health only by agreeing with the central executive body in the field of health." That's a nice fix. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u65	Well, now we're going to talk about 47th, one minute, now 47th. The committee considered the amendment in part. There's an insistence. () [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, dear fellows, not all at once.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u66	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you can just read in the committee's editors, how it's sounded, because it's partially assembled with amendments to the 46th, 48th, 45th and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u67	Well, let me read it. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u68	They're asking, they're asking, I'll read, one minute. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, be quiet! Article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Prevent and Reduce the Use of Tobacco Products and Their Harmful Effects on Population Health is published in this paper. [["News of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", 2005, No. 52, article 565]] Article 16: "Restriction of the influence of tobacco-related operators on public policies to prevent and reduce the use of tobacco products and their harmful effects on the health of the population. Economic operators whose activities involve production, wholesale trade, export, and import of tobacco products are prohibited from providing material, financial, organizational support to political parties, public authorities, and local authorities. Consumers who are involved in the production, wholesale, export, and import of tobacco products are prohibited from providing material, financial, or organizational support for measures to prevent and reduce the use of tobacco products, and from carrying out information campaigns for the purpose of prevention of smoking, in addition to those established by law. Predicting: mandatory information on the harmful use of tobacco products, the level of tar and nicotine in cigarette smoke, restrictions on consumption and the implementation of sales of tobacco products, as well as information and advisory measures, among employees who are licensed to produce tobacco." This edition is proposed by the committee on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u69	So we wanted to make it impossible to influence public policy by large tobacco companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u70	May I have your attention, please? Hence, the insistence of a group of national deputies. Is that what this is about? Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u71	I'm going to put our common ground here. The point is that this amendment introduces a rule on the prohibition of support, other than political parties, also to the authorities of self - government and government. What does that mean? And that means banning the cultural actions that these bodies carry out, banning any support from theaters, other institutions, even the same medical institutions that are run by these organizations. You know, boys, change the name of the law. The law says "advertise." The commercial of tobacco products has long been banned. This is a ban on sponsorship and charity -- once, this is a ban on internal communication, information -- two, consumer information -- three. It's a totally false law. Someone from. He's got the money and he's doing it now. I'm asking you to either place this amendment for confirmation, or delete this phrase at least: "prohibition to state authorities and local self-government."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u72	Mr. Taras, these are amendments to the Law on Measures to Prevent and Reduce Tobacco Use, this is Article 16 of this Act. So it's just to make it impossible, in principle, to influence public policy. If big tobacco companies want to sponsor theaters, let them do it, but not publicly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, it's the right thing to do, because then, if they're sponsoring, everyone in the theater needs to smoke. Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 47, and I have read it to confirm this amendment. Please vote. [[16:51:10]] For 134 Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u74	Can we vote in favour of drafting the committee, in principle, for the whole amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u75	So I read it in the committee, and I read it in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u76	You read the committee's papers, and you put mine in 47th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u77	Yes, Helen Constantine, that's how the first reading is left. Well, please, come on, there's a committee head, a reporter. If the amendment has not been corrected, the first reading is left. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? So I set up an editor. Dear colleagues, let me put to the vote the right column that I read was not supported by 134. I want to say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u78	I don't think I understand the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u79	Okay. Dear colleagues, well, please, let's calm down. I am now, because there is a claim that we have not understood which part we voted for, we voted for the right column, the final edition proposed by the committee. May I have your attention, please? I put to the vote, please note, 47 amendments that are required for confirmation in the right column, and I read it. Please vote. [[16:52:56]] For 148 Correction not supported. Yes. Well, one minute. Let's go through the repairs, then we'll talk. By factions, please, dear colleagues. Region Party 6, "BUT – Fatherland" – 48, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 38, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 6, "The People's Party – 20, non-factional – 5. There was a requirement to return to Amendment 46, it was rejected. Amendment 48, Yuri Miroshnichenko. Please. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, would you like us to understand what's actually going on in the hall right now? In fact, extremely powerful interests, including financial interests, have been met. And you and I have a political decision to make. It is whether we will allow our children to be destroyed; whether we will allow tobacco to be used by those who do not smoke or who are already smoking. So actually, I'd like to support all sorts of amendments to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u81	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, let us make a wise decision. Your attention, please! Amendment 50. Xenia Leapina, do you insist on her? No, it's not. Amendment 51. He's a workman. No, it's not. 52nd. Lappina. No, it's not. Chevchuk, 55th. No, it's not. Taras Blackwall, 61st, insists on her? It's rejected. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u82	Excuse me. One second, you gave me your word, I just want to say. I'm not going to insist on 61st, but I'd like to ask you to skip 41st of mine, and I'd like to come back for it. They just didn't put it in, they didn't mention it. And there was just this one very loud line. I want to answer a wise man, whom I respect. You know this law, but we've had a discussion with one of you that you haven't even seen what's forbidden there is real, normal human, not even sponsorship, but charity. Once again, I tell those who want to say that this law prohibits tobacco advertising. Advertising in Ukraine is banned 5-6 years ago. This law is completely different. This is the law of money laundering for some funds. And if any of the members of the Supreme Council have received that money, at least he will repent, not those who are here shouting a lot!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Dear colleagues, we will return to the 41st after all the amendments have been made. Correction. The amendments here are all still there. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, you can't work like this. First you refuse, then you go back to the amendments. Well, you can't either. 53 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, given that we didn't count 47 amendments, I'd like to ask you to put to the vote 53 amendments, my amendment, which is, in fact, also a clear, comprehensive list of circumstances under which you can't use the names of tobacco companies in any way, in fact brand names. And I want to assure all of our constituents and deputies, those who are the authors of this law, have not received a penny from any funds, is our civic position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, I would ask you to stop the baseless accusations because you can be accused of getting some to lobby tobacco companies and others to take them out. Let's make a decision. Regarding the 53th Amendment, Elena Konstantinovna is included in another edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u86	It's taken into account in a different edition. The only thing we didn't take into account is the second part where there's information about the manufacturer, because it's basically about other laws, it's the Consumer Rights Protection Act and the Law on State Regulations for the Production and Traffic of Spirits and Tobacco Products. That's why we didn't count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u87	Well, then let's agree, because then we're going to break the whole structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u88	Yeah, well, then we're gonna break the whole structure, so we'd better just give it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u89	Just a minute. Dear colleagues, 67th Amendment, Kovalevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u90	I called you, you weren't in the hall, now please 50. Please, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] 54 revisions. Let's think about 54, it's negative. Motivation of the woodworker.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u91	Critically, what was included in the 53rd amendment is advertising at sales points. I understand everything, any argument about consumer rights, but why do my kids want to play roller skates at the same level as my kids? Did you see what the supermarkets turned into? It's totally legal now, and we'll leave it if we don't accept this amendment. Colleagues, a huge request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u92	That's the 54th amendment, isn't it? Yeah? The committee turned her down. Helen Constantine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u93	We rejected it because it's very large here. In principle, it's an alternative to the same 47 that we left on the first reading. But it's very complemented by a large list, which, in principle, is also part of another law, on government regulation of the production of alcohol and tobacco products. Well, there's still a second part of it, where there's a media placement of unbalanced materials that profoundly highlight the interests of tobacco producers. We generally viewed this as actually a proposed censorship, because the subject of regulation here is simply the Information Act. That's why we rejected her.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment 54, author of Olesia Orobec. Please vote. [[17:00:23]] Z-62 Correction not supported. Yeah, let's move on. 55th, Shevchuk, doesn't it insist? Xenia Lapina, 56th. No, it's not. Miroshenko, 57th? No, it's not. Let's go through so there's no objection. Yes, Taras Cranville, 61st, do you insist? No, it's not. Dove, 63rd. No, it's not. Kinakh, 64th? Blue, 65th? Kovalevska, 67th? Oh, no? Yeah, no. Taras Cranville, 71st. The law takes effect on January 1. Well.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u95	No, we have an editorial six months after our adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u96	Is there no objection? Yeah, 41st amendment. Taras Cranwell suggested that we go back to her. Let's go back to the 41st amendment. Actually, we didn't discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u97	We didn't discuss it. You see, under the general rules of this law, if he were to go completely into the text proposed by the Committee without a vote, only by removing those words from the 47th amendment, where in fact sponsorship under the form of state authorities is prohibited by cultural, other organizations, in the Committee's drafting, the law could be adopted. He would really be adequate. But in these circumstances, let's vote my 41st. I know she won't get through, she'll ban things, but she brings them in, but I think in a more logical way. Although it doesn't really matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u98	It was included in part.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u99	Okay. I do not insist on voting, but I just wish that by adopting such laws, we would not play the big ideology, but simply understand how it would turn out. In this law, you know what's laid? It's assumed that now the vetting authorities will be able to attack any media outlet, this is a greeting from one of the heads of the Freedom of Speech Committee, for even the tension or rating, or which, I'm sorry, some kind of research there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u100	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u101	Mr. Taras, we've cleared this rule, and it's not exactly in this law. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if you please, literally one minute. You know, this law was very difficult, it was very hard to get it into the working group. Because there was actually a compromise to find. Clearly, there is truth in all, and it is its own. And in tobacco companies, the truth is, in anti-smokers, in public organizations. In principle, the committee took, as we think, a quality decision, because the truth is somewhere in the middle. I am very much asking to support this bill, because in principle it awaits, and in reality Ukraine will at least get a little bit closer to European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading and generally as a law. You've just been very urged by the reporter to do so. The Chief Legal Authority has made remarks and states that the bill requires substantial further elaboration and rereading. That's a proposition. Since this question is sensitive, let us accept. Just a minute. Let us adopt this law. And once it's processed, if we look at supported or unsupported amendments, we'll see what's going to happen, maybe after 131 we'll have to make some clarifications. That is why I am now voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the prohibition of advertising, sponsorship and promotion of the sale of tobacco products]] [[Registration number 5164]] Please vote. [[17:04:20]] For 332 [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Thank you for finding common ground here. I'm just asking the committee, you do it carefully with the Legal Department, see if we don't have the rules of this law broken, or else we're gonna have to clarify it. God forbid this is limited to 131 articles. Dear colleagues! We were about to consider the draft Law on Documents certifying the person and confirming the citizenship of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8507]] We need this bill very much, given the problem of visa-free regime. But in view of the fact that the tables have not yet been given, we will postpone them until the tables and deputies are given to us. Maybe we'll consider it tomorrow. Is there no objection? Thank you. We have to take him, my dear fellows, before October 1st. Dear colleagues! That's right. No, I understand everything. Questions. Then we will follow the Rules. But I, my honourable colleagues, have to inform the national MPs that negotiations on the visa-free regime and the execution of those tasks, the obligations that Ukraine faces require that we do this process for one minute so that we can not slow down this process - the decision-making process by 1 October. They won't be ready, they won't be willing, I'll just inform the MPs, we won't be looking at that question, especially because there are a lot of problematic moments -- the question is, Dear colleagues! I have to inform you, in order for there to be information, two factions: the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and the faction "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block" - "The Fatherland" demand a recess to make a statement, but ready to make a statement now in order not to interrupt our fruitful legislative process. Please. Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u103	A boy named Andrew. The Ukrainians, today’s events have demonstrated once again that the Yanukovich regime is transforming Ukraine into a police state. And today, repression began against young Ukrainian students. This is because these repressions occur during the European Education Ministers' Forum. And in this background, it's particularly impressive. First thing in the morning, a student at the Kyiv-Magilian Academy, during the flower forum, slapped the Minister of Education, Tobacco, for his anti-Ukrainian activities. Interestingly, the minister of education himself considers his action to be adequate and calm. So the Minister of Education has responded with understanding to the actions of a Ukrainian student and he obviously understands that this is the position of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian students. But she's still being taken to the police station right now. Although I managed to get her out of there, they are threatening to prosecute a girl who is only 17 years old. You know, certain pedophile moods in power are starting. Then four students were detained while holding shares in the Sofia Square, which were conducting an anti - tobacco campaign. Listen, this is an absurd accusation. They are accused of not allowing public transportation. Although the action was predetermined by the appropriate authorities, there was no ban on the action. And the students peacefully went to a campaign called Counter-Forum to show the level of corruption, the level of commerciality of education in order to protest the tobacco policy. And they had Berkut thrown at them, and four buses, Buszak and four young boys were detained. As they were taken to the militia raid, they were beaten directly in the car by omonics. Therefore, they demonstrate to whom and how they can show their power. Already in the militia’s Paradise and they were able to be released, released from the militia raid, but today’s events show that after opposition politicians have been imprisoned, authorities are testing their forces on young boys, students, girls who are the future of the Ukrainian state. So today, on behalf of the two factions, I demand all deputies from the Attorney General's Office to file a criminal case against those who ordered the beating of students during a legitimate action and I also demand to stop any persecution against Daria Stepanenko, because that is why the authorities are actually stopping Ukraine's path to Europe. Remember and stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, please, I beg your attention. I ask the secretariat to prepare an address to the Ministry of Internal Affairs in order for the Supreme Council to receive comprehensive information on this event and its consequences. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the laws with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. I am announcing for consideration the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on simplifying the granting of land for the needs of the use of nadram with the proposals of the President of Ukraine dated 30 July 2011. The rapporteur is Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Valérie Fedorovich Beveljenko. I'm asking you, let's go then, because I've announced the question, after that question, I've already announced it. Dear colleagues, there are two more factions here, but after the question has been completed, because we are in the process of being considered. Yuri Romanovich. Dear colleagues, it is suggested to consider, Yuri Romanovich suggests, a matter of reduced procedure. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. It's a shortcut for reporters, because we don't have a discussion. [[17:11:10]] For-173 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u105	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On 8 July 2011, the Supreme Council adopted the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Simplification of Land Administration Procedures for Nadra Use. The president of Ukraine returned the prescribed law to Parliament with his proposals for its review. According to the head of State, this law contains the position that it should be excluded. First. It is proposed to exclude the situations that give rise to the possibility of redemption, the industrial alienation of land, other immovable property in which they are located, from the private property of some individuals to the private property of others in the form of social needs or social necessity. These changes are tantamount to the above - mentioned notions, since legislation provides for a social need and a social need solely for the public’s or the community’s interests. In this case, the interests of a private person are viewed as, are considered to be, and the interests of some private owners are, in fact, treated as favoured in relation to the interests of others. Such an approach does not correspond to the constitutional rules regarding the equality of all property rights before the law, the guarantee of the integrity of private property rights, the possibility of forcible alienation of property rights only as an exception to the grounds of social necessity alone, and the provision of State protection for competition in entrepreneurial activities. The other one. It is proposed to exclude the provision for lowering the rent for land for persons who have received special permits to use the nadrama and to finance the ransom, forcing such land to be alienated from state or municipal property. [[license]] This approach will reduce income from land rental to appropriate budgets, including local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u106	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u107	including local self-government budgets, which will result in their balance. This provision does not correspond to the principle enshrined in article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine that the State seeks to ensure budgetary balance. In view of the state’s stated head of state, it cannot support the changes noted, such as those that do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, and it proposes in the law that came upon the signature to exclude paragraph 2, which contains those positions. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u108	Thank you. Deputy Chairman of the Committee, Sergey Tereshuk. Committee decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u109	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, on the basis of the well-founded proposals made by the President of Ukraine, taking into account the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the proposals of the President of Ukraine and to exclude paragraph 2 from the Ukrainian Act "To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine ". [[Simplifying the granting of land for needs related to the use of nadras]] But at the same time, the Committee notes that taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and removing the provisions amending the Ukrainian Law on Land Disposal, Other Real Estate Objects, which are located in private property, for social or social purposes, will entail a change in the name of the law. In connection with this name, the law will have to be drafted as follows: The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Land Code on Simplifying Landplacement Procedure for Nadra-related Needs, as changes will only be made to Ukraine's General Code. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u110	We're going to vote now. There's a separate opinion from a member of the Committee of Roman Tuck, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u111	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, first of all, to put it mildly, there were three inadequacies in this law. One of them is being eliminated by the President. That's a good thing, and I support the President's proposal to take this part of the second part, and then there's two. I'd like to emphasize what I'm about to tell you. See what this is all about. For example, article 150 of the Ukrainian Code of Land refers to particularly valuable lands with peats with a depth of more than three feet [1 m] and dried irrespective of depth, black earth, and so forth. According to part two of article 151 of the Land Code, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be responsible for agreeing on the location of objects on particularly valuable lands. By adopting this law in general, we allow ourselves to be alienated from especially valuable lands without the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the first one. The second question. This bill, if we don't send him to work, we're going to go into one thing. We've got conditions in Transitions today that have a moratorium on land sales. I read, "Until the laws of Ukraine "On the State Land Cadastre" are in force," and there are written cases. Now that we're adopting this bill as a whole, we're making such changes to the Transitional Positions that we can alienate, change the target assignment, use land under the trust of the beneficial mines of state importance within the areas necessary for their extraction by the owners of special permits. So if you get a permit for a thousand hectares, and there's a grill on the top, for sand, for oil and so on, so these thousand hectares of rollers can change the target destination and buy them into peasants. This is what we do with this law. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please. I think we can make this decision by supporting the President's proposals in 135 articles of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u112	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u113	. vote, support part of the President's proposals, and then send it to the Main Committee to finalize and exclude these norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, this may be if we do not make the first decision, then the second, to return the committee to work. Now we follow the Rules. I'm putting to the vote now the amendment of the President of Ukraine. If we take the amendment into account, then we put the adoption to the vote in the new editions, in fact, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. I mean. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on an amendment by the President of Ukraine that reads: "It is paragraph 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on simplifying the granting of land for needs related to the use of the nadra" to exclude." Please vote. [[17:19:14]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Now. What? Roman Tuck's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u115	When we didn't accept the President's proposal, it's no trouble, in principle. Now let's put the Supreme Council's decision before us on a committee, we'll definitely take the President's proposal into account, because it's right, we'll change those two positions and then we'll take it all in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u116	Dear colleagues! When this happens, I put to the vote a proposal to refer to the committee to work on the proposal made by the President of Ukraine. Please vote. Question, registration number 8209, please vote. [[17:20:31]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two factions -- the faction of the Party of the Regions and the faction of the Communists -- require a recess to declare the application. Will Vadim Koleschenko make a statement? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u117	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! We have just heard here a very interesting, touching story, told us by colleagues who were close to how a young girl, formed like a kalina leaf, allegedly did a very important political action. At the same time, the girl stated that she had expressed her attitude on behalf of Ukrainian students. At the same time, the All-Ukrainian Student Council condemned the student’s conduct. Strangely enough, he was the gentleman who was here pouring crocodile tears, and somehow he was there at the same time, and he saved her from the paws of an angry militia. Isn't that the person who dumped her in the clutches of the Ukrainian militia who justifiably detained this girl for hooliganism? I just went online and saw some great pictures. It turns out that this is not just a student, but two weeks ago, veterans of our Ukrainian State, very respectable people, some 40 people held an anti-fascist forum, including their Lieutenant-General Vorontsov, leader of the International Veterans Union, hero of the Soviet Union, participant of the Victory of Selivanov parade, participants in the movement of resistance from abroad. A gang of 15 people, as always in masks, threw eggs at veterans and ran away in disgrace by breaking doors. What's most amazing is that in the photo that this amazing Ukrainian girl was able to do. That's the patriot who expressed her attitude towards the people who did this. The girls suffered and struggled with German-Fashist occupiers. And then let us pass through the comma: the burning of the eggs of the Fire, and the blowing of the monuments, in effect, demeaning the veterans. This terrible chain, which begins with such a cynical attitude towards the law, the cynical attitude towards the people who handed over this so-called, youth is a State. That's how fascism started, that's how government officials were killed, and that's if this plague doesn't stop today, that's if those bastards that these young people are throwing in tanks don't stop today, our country will be devastated. Thank God these people are a very small bunch, thank God the students aren't following them. Our normal Ukrainian students are concerned about the statehood and future of our country. That is why they have condemned such a hooligan act, which is already consistent today, and that is why today I am clearly accusing these people who have been here, in fact, of the terrorism they impose on our society. Look out!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I stress that I have asked them to prepare an address for the Ministry of Internal Affairs to provide information on this event. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Code of Lands, on bringing Ukraine into line with the Code of Nadra, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 30.07.2011. Come on, fellows of honor. Short cut? Come on. Then I put to the vote a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:24:43]] For 193 The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u119	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! On July 5, 2011, the Supreme Council adopted the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Lands, on bringing Ukraine into line with the Nadra Code. According to the President of Ukraine, the prescribed law cannot be signed for such reasons. First, the proposed changes to the Earth Code significantly alter the legal regime of peatland. In particular, much of the peatland is deprived of the status of particularly valuable land. It is intended to refer to particularly valuable lands only those peatlands used in the composition of wetlands of international importance. It should also be borne in mind that special arrangements have been made for lands of particular value, including peatlands. The decision to remove such lands is taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine if the matter is agreed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Torfayal deposits are often confined to or made up of territories and objects of the natural reserve fund of Ukraine. Some peatlands are located in small river basins for which a series of prohibitions have been established by the Water Code, including a change in relief. The natural value of peatland should be noted. According to article 16 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the responsibility of the State is to ensure environmental security and to maintain environmental balance in Ukraine. The removal of peatland from the regime of particularly valuable lands may lead to violations of the stated constitutional standards. The law unwarrantedly expands the benefits of paying compensation for agricultural and forestry losses. Civil and legal persons will be freed from payment if land is returned to a state consistent with approved land-use projects for recreation and rehabilitation of damaged land.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u120	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u121	I'll finish then. I'll shorten the speech. As a result of the above-mentioned head of state, it cannot support this law, since it provides for the deprivation of much of the peatland status of particularly valuable lands, which may cause environmental degradation in the state, leading to budgetary imbalances, the failure of the State to fulfil constitutional guarantees in the relevant spheres. Please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Code of Land on Nadra. Thank you for your attention. Please support the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u122	The deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk, reported on the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u123	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Having considered the proposals made by the President of Ukraine by the Ukraine Act adopted on 5 July 2011 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Code of Land Code to comply with the Ukrainian Code of Nadra, and in line with the conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which considers the President's proposals to be sound, based on a balanced assessment of the environmental and financial consequences, the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations considers it appropriate to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and the Ukraine Act on the amendment of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Decline. Although I have to add that this problem exists today, the President's proposals need to be accepted, but we need to look for a way out of this situation today, because it's not just one part of Ukraine -- in many regions of Ukraine and East and West. So, dear colleagues, let's look for other options that will help us solve the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u124	Dear National Deputies! Yes, maybe given that there is such a problem, so let's get the committee and the committee to work on it, because there is a problem. It is that everyone today is talking about energy conservation, and the local authorities can't deal with this problem -- we have to go to Kiev for all the help. In accordance with the Rules, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the law, and then, if that is the next proposal. But let us first vote on the proposal to reject the Ukrainian Law on Change in the Ukraine Code of Land. [[Registration number 8238]] [[17:30:03]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Then we are left with one, honourable colleagues, to go to the committee to work on the proposals of the President of Ukraine. I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Please vote. [[17:30:32]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I am announcing for consideration the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the settlement of relations between creditors and consumers of financial services, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 29.07.2011. [[Registration number 7351]] Reporter – First Deputy Justice Minister Emilianova Inna Ivanovna, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Tax and Customs Policy, Hmotinnik Vitali Juryovich. The suggestion from the rapporteur to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[17:31:29]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u125	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Act amending certain legislative acts on the settlement of the relationship between creditors and consumers of financial services adopted by the Supreme Council was not signed by the President for the following reasons. First. Article 222 of the Criminal Code, which is entitled “Financing fraud”, contains such a change that the words “entrepreneurs citizen or founding citizen or business subject” are replaced by “any natural person”. This is first of all inconsistent with article 18 of the Criminal Code, which clearly defines who may be the subject of the crime. That it may be an exclusive and physical person who is condemned and has reached the age of criminal responsibility. In this connection, the President proposes in article 222 of the Criminal Code that the words "citizen of an enterprise or founding citizen or official of a business subject" be deleted in general. In addition, a number of amendments were made to the Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. In particular, it has been established that the debtor will be responsible for failing to comply with the requirements of the obligation to apply for a month’s sentence to a household court, and the debtor will be liable according to the law. This is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that only by law are the principles of criminal, civil and administrative responsibility established. That's why the President proposed that the words "legislative" should be replaced by the words "legislative." In addition, the Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Debt contains some changes aimed at delaying the imposition of a moratorium on the satisfaction of creditors. In connection with this moratorium, the debtor’s satisfaction with the creditor’s claims that the bankruptcy case has been breached will be introduced later than at the time of the withdrawal of the claim that the conduct of the bankruptcy case has been violated. This, in turn, will enable the debtor to take appropriate steps to sell and evade his or her obligations from the time of bankruptcy to the time of publication. In this regard, the President proposes paragraph 3 of subparagraph 4 and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u126	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u127	Section I, paragraph 4, delete the law. In addition, the President is proposing not to support the amendment to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery of the Payability of the Debtor in view of the fact that these changes are not subject to the regulation of article 13i, and these issues have already been settled in article 23 of the law in force. It was also supplemented by article 41 of the Law on the Mortgage, which stipulated that the organization of the sale of the mortgage item would rely on the organizer of the sale, which would be involved on a competitive basis by the authorities of the State executive service. But this issue is already regulated by the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct, where it is clearly defined, how organizations are taken away, which implements the arrested property at public auctions or on other competitive principles. In addition, the President has proposed section II of the law, which proposes the Ukrainian Act on the Introduction of a Moratorium on Forced Realisation of Property, to recognize that it has become invalid, to exclude, taking into account the premature recognition of this law by means of which it has ceased to be valid. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u128	Thank you, too. Please, Alexander Pecklesenko is the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u129	The honourable electorate, the honourable deputies, the previous reporter made a meaningful report on the President's point of view, so there is no need to repeat the same. The Committee has considered all the observations and recommends its decision to adopt this law, taking into account the proposal of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We need to vote on the President's proposals, the President's proposals. Now. Just a minute. There's only seven of them. There's a separate opinion from Stanislav Arjevetin, a member of the committee, please. A specific point needs to be drawn up with a corresponding document.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u131	Dear National Deputies! In fact, of the President’s seven proposals, four are indeed right, which no doubt must be accepted. But there are three suggestions, which are quite impressive when you're reading an explanatory note that we're given here in the hall, why the President is arguing, and when I as an author know the contents of this amendment, what it's been for, it's a feeling that they're talking about completely different. And by the way, the scientific expertise has also confirmed that. Like what? If someone doesn't like an editorial with the fraud of financial resources that we've adopted, as if, in the second reading, well, it might need to be rejected. Well, why reject the basic operating standard that the country lives by? I understand that the President had to cancel the editorial we accepted in the hall. But it's not right to cancel a basic active editorial at all. I mean, they kicked the whole article out with a spear. Well, what's the logic when, for example, in accordance with this bill, we set up a creditor institution, a competitive creditor. Well, if there are people who have the right to be a competitive creditor, why do they not have the right to receive additional information from the borrower, to appeal to the court to establish the correct order of these creditors? Somehow it's completely out of the text -- incomprehensible, completely illogical. And when it comes to arresting the debtor’s property, something else is explained, although the text indicates that it is only for the duration of the decision and no more. And that's the impression that, I think, just by these three standards, the President was misinformed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the amendments. The first amendment of the President of Ukraine by the Committee is taken into account. I'm voting on the approval of this amendment, please vote. [[17:38:21]] For 217 Correction not supported. I'm voting on the President of Ukraine's 2nd amendment. Please vote. The amendment shall be voted on. [[17:38:50]] For the 220. Correction not supported. I'm betting on the vote of the President of Ukraine's 3rd amendment. Please vote. [[17:39:10]] For 228 Correction supported. I'm betting on the vote on the 4th amendment of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[17:39:32]] For 229 Correction supported. I'm betting on the vote of 5th Amendment of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[17:39:52]] For 235 Correction counted. Just a minute. I'm betting on a 6th amendment by the President of Ukraine, which is counted by the committee. Please vote. [[17:40:19]] For 232 Correction counted. One minute. I'm betting on the vote of 7th amendment by the President of Ukraine, which is counted by the committee. Please vote. [[17:40:43]] For 237 Correction counted. Dear colleagues, we have a problem: two amendments were not included in five. One minute for this law to have a certain logic, we need to go back to these amendments. Oh, no? So we have to vote against the veto. So I have an offer, I put it to a vote, to return to amendment number one. Please vote. [[17:41:24]] For 236 We're back to the repair. I now vote in favour of amendment number one, which is counted by the committee. Please vote. [[17:41:45]] For 238. Correction counted. I am voting on the motion to return to Amendment 2. Please vote. [[17:42:08]] For 240 We're back. I vote in favour of amendment number two, which is counted by the committee. Please vote. [[17:42:30.]] For 239. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I now put the motion to the vote because we have taken into account all seven comments by the President of Ukraine on the adoption of the law in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[17:43:04]] For 239. The law is passed. Dear colleagues! Now we need to consider another very important law, I mean the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice on the characteristics of conduct in cases of alien and stateless persons. It's from a package of bills that we need to make decisions about the visa-free regime. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Vorona Dmitry Mikolaiovich. The Coroner is the head of the Justice Committee's subcommittee, Ljovczyn Ulya Volodymyryn. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[17:44:03]] For 219 Decision taken. Please. The coconspirator will be the first deputy head of the Committee on Justice, George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u133	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! With a view to reducing administrative conduct in cases of detention and forced expulsion of foreigners and stateless persons and their accusations, it is proposed to amend the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, which provides for the improvement of the legal regulation on the terms of this category of cases from the internal affairs bodies, the State border authorities or the Ukrainian Security Service. The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice will provide that administrative cases concerning the detention of foreigners and stateless persons in connection with further forced evictions will be dealt with without delay, and that decisions of the courts in administrative matters may be brought on appeal on a 5-day basis from the date of their declaration. And the court will deal with such cases within five days of the date of the appeal. The adoption of the bill will help improve immigration legislation and improve the work of law enforcement agencies against illegal migration, avoid problems related to the maintenance of illegal migrants, and ensure conditions for the realization of their rights. The implementation of the bill will not require additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine. Please point out that the Ministry of Internal Affairs requests the adoption of this law as a whole in connection with the strict deadline for fulfilling our obligations to the European Union, as Vladimir Mikhailovich has already said. I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u134	Thank you, too, sit down, please. The first deputy chairman of the Justice Committee, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, has the word for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u135	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Justice on September 21, 2011, at its meeting, considered a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice on the characteristics of the conduct of cases of alien and stateless persons introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This project, 8758, proposes to supplement the Code of Administrative Judiciality with a new article 183-5, which sets out the specificities of the conduct of administrative proceedings concerning the expulsion of aliens and stateless persons. In addition, it is proposed to amend article 256 of the Code, according to which the regulations on forced alien or stateless persons are subject to immediate enforcement. What I'm trying to say is that the Chief Science and Technology Administration has made a note of this project and it's given them a series of observations. An expertise was also made in the Supreme Administrative Court, which also made a number of comments. At the same time, when examining these observations, we cannot agree with the conclusion that it is not possible, in one article, to merge administrative procedures that differ according to their legal nature, namely, foreign and stateless persons, with regard to the prosecution of decisions concerning their expulsion and the internal protection of the State border or the Security Service regarding the forced expulsion of aliens and stateless persons and their detention in connection with the expulsion. However, the Code of Administration does not explicitly prohibit the unification, in an article, of the rules governing administrative actions, such as the expulsion of aliens and stateless persons on the basis of various prosecutions. That's how.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u136	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u137	As for the proposal, it is urgent to consider only the detention of a foreigner, a stateless person with the aim of ensuring that further extraction is possible, and the issue of direct extraction is already being considered by the court during the general month. With regard to the comments on the third part of article 183 with the 5 badge, it should be noted that the Code of Administration provides for a procedure of procedural coercion, such as an excuse used to ensure that the parties are involved in the judicial proceedings. This is article 269, 272 of the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine. Furthermore, part four of article 128 of the Code states that in the event of a failure to respond, the subject of authority duly informed of the date, time, and place of trial, without sound reasons or without notice of the reason for his absence, is not delayed, and the case can be settled on the basis of evidence available. The same effect is applied in the event of a relapse under the same conditions as the one that is not the subject of authority. Thus, the committee decided to adopt the bill in the first reading. Taking into account the international practice I have learned, I can personally add. We can accept the proposal to adopt the bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up. There are those who want to speak, you have to sign up for the performance. Please show me your name. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Then Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u139	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. The faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this law, but it will support it in the first reading, I emphasize. Because we have some comments about this document. But, you know, given that we've had quite a lot of arguments in the hall lately in favor of the European choice of Ukraine, in favour of the need to adopt some law in order to speed up the visa-free regime and so on, without denying it, I want to say this about what. Let us be very careful in this rhetoric. In order not to offend Ukrainian citizens. That's what I'm talking about. For example, on the late Friday, the Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments is being voted on. And the rapporteur from the committee states that in order to preserve the international authority of Ukraine, it is necessary to make this decision. And I ask questions and questions from veterans: Listen, and in the state, and in the Supreme Council, are there any commitments to us or not, to Ukrainian citizens? So what I'm saying is that by fulfilling our international obligations, we have to protect our citizens if you want to avoid excessive humiliation. So once again, I want to say that the faction of the Company of Ukraine supports this document in the first reading in order to make the necessary clarifications and accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u140	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u141	Thank you, Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! I agree with these remarks, which have been made in the rostrum and given that these remarks can be removed in preparation for second reading, the Party of Regions will vote on the basis for this bill. And second moment. I'd like to answer a colleague who spoke on the day before, sometimes you really don't have to ask questions about what it does or doesn't contribute to any of the processes. But in this case, the adoption of this bill will really help to regulate visa-free liberalisation with EU countries. I think all Ukrainian citizens want to move freely in all directions. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u142	Dear colleagues! We continue the evening session for 15 minutes. Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." It's at your request, I'll do whatever you say.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u143	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues! The "BUT" faction "Paternity" will not vote in favour of the bill, its eloquent purpose, namely: "shortening of administrative implementation periods in matters of detention and forced expulsion of foreigners and stateless persons" does not fit the content. It is suggested that these cases be handled by district administrative courts. Well, but district administrative courts, as you all know, only one in the area. They're overworked. Therefore, the jurisdiction of the district administrative courts of the cases will only delay the process. In addition, the bill contains many evaluation concepts, such as the urgent consideration of the case, the detention of foreigners or stateless persons. Ukraine’s Code of Administrative Judiciality provides for clear procedural lines. Before considering the matter in fact, it needs to be registered, handed over to the judge, assigned to the hearing, and done other actions that in any case require a certain amount of time. Court cases, even under the rules of reduced conduct, can't be dealt with without any preparation. The law must be clear so that it does not create opportunities for abuse. And the current and urgent example is that this is a trial, this is a trial in a cave trial over Yulia Timoshenko. When a servant of Femida makes a false change, he takes away his will, his freedom. For 49 days now, Julia Tymoshenko has been in prison, in the U.S.S.A., where, by the way, women are already dying. Because the penitentiary system of Ukraine, when the budget goes to everything: Mercedes, helicopters, playgrounds. There is no medicine, and there are no standards. That's why this law can't be supported. Because he doesn't solve matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u144	Oleg Zarubinsky, please, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u145	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, must be put to the vote for this law. I'll tell you why. We can actually talk about visa liberalisation, we can talk about moving Ukraine through a visa-free dialogue, and this is not a question for politicians, because politicians, most of them have diplomatic passports, they can go without visas, for example, to the countries of the European Union. It's a question for the same student, it's a question for those who work abroad, it's a question for those who travel, who want to do tourism. But that's not the main thing in this case. It seems to me that this bill is primarily aimed at combating illegal migration. Right? That's not what this is about. You know, it's a scourge, a scourge -- illegal migration, today for the world, for the countries of Europe. And in time, Ukraine is becoming not only a transitor of illegal migration, but, whatever we do there, let's say, it's getting worse and worse, but more and more citizens of other countries want to stay here, in Ukraine, and have no status, no legal status, and are illegal migrants. You can certainly disagree with this law and say that it should be a long term, but who will win? Politicians win? They may win, but who loses? And it loses society and loses the Ukrainian people, because the huge pressure on Ukraine's social infrastructure has this illegal migration. So who's gonna lose? So I think I need to reject these political slogans, the political declarations, the more I don't understand the substance of the law, and support in this case the absolutely correct proposal that allows illegal migrants when they don't have the right to stay in Ukraine, to get out of Ukraine, as France does, as Italy does, especially after events in Maghreb, as all European countries do. You don't have to suffer from a set of low-costs. Illegal migrants.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u146	Vladimir Kaplienko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u147	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill, but only on the first reading. We fully supported the theory that the visa-free regime for Ukrainians is as important as the air for all of us. And we certainly support those expressed by Mr. Zarubinsky that this will increase migration discipline and allow our foreign authorities to fight these migratory phenomena and illegal migration in Ukraine more effectively. However, there are four main things that need to be changed. First. This is an inability to unify in one article the procedures for the conduct of administrative matters in respect of appeals and foreigners and internal affairs. The other one. The jurisdiction of administrative matters cannot be determined by the District Administrative Courts. Because this will not or will not speed up the removal of those individuals from Ukraine. Third. In part two, article 183. 5, which states that such administrative cases are decided by a court on a monthly basis, is already provided in article 122 of the SASU. And the fourth. What is urgent consideration, and where did it come from? It's an appraised concept, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u148	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u149	It's an estimating concept, it's missing completely, and that's why it's meant to be a full explanation of what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. A motion for approval of the Law amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine on the characteristics of conduct in cases of expulsion of persons and persons without citizenship is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8758]] Please vote. [[17:58:53]] For 263 Thank you for your decision. 263 — yes. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider the draft of the Emergency Relief System Act for the only telephone number 112. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Emergency Situations Booth Vitali Petrovich, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga. Dear colleagues, obviously, we need to make this decision so that we can call us at least. Therefore, in view of your insistence, I am putting to the vote a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:59:51]] For 218. Decision taken. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u151	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, is submitting to your consideration a draft Ukrainian Emergency Assistance System for a single telephone number 112, developed by the MNP and introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill defines the MNP as the main body in the emergency relief system for the population at 112 and clearly distinguishes the rights and responsibilities of all entities of the 112 system, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central and local executive authorities, and the local self - government authorities. A single 112 phone number is set up to receive emergency response messages. Telecommunication operators are obliged to deliver emergency calls to the appropriate center of the 112 system and provide the necessary information about the subscriber, his databases, and his location at the time of the connection. It is estimated that calls to 112 are made free of charge. The draft law fully agrees with the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. Prior to the introduction by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the draft law to the Supreme Council, his final version was given quality legal and editorial expertise from the Ministry of Justice and the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As you know, on September 21st, a meeting was held by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, European integration, transport and communication. The bill was considered. All the committees supported the introduction of the draft Ukrainian Emergency Assistance System Act to the first reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to point out that all the proposals that have come and will come after the first reading of the bill will be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's profile committee. We will take an active part in this work. For the second reading, all the constructive proposals under the bill will be taken into account. I hope that the concerted work and your assistance, the distinguished people's deputies, will give us the opportunity by the end of October to have a quality European-level bill in such a priority area for the state as the provision of emergency assistance to the population. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u152	Thank you, too. Have a seat. Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u153	Dear colleagues! The essence of the bill is expressed in its name, the Ukrainian Emergency Assistance System Act, which is the only telephone number for the population. The implementation of the 112 system will reduce economic losses and loss of human life, as well as meet the requirements of the European Union, first and foremost, in the course of the Euro-2012. The 112 system provides an organization for providing comprehensive emergency assistance to the population in the event of health, life, property, or the environment, public order, other dangerous events or offences. The bill introduces the only 112 telephone number instead of several emergency service numbers, namely 101, 102, 103, 104, and regulates the relationship between 112 emergency services and emergency population units at 112. During the implementation phase, the only 112 phone number will be used in parallel with the existing emergency service call numbers 101, 102, 103, 104, which will enable our citizens to adapt to the new European system. In order to balance the current legislation on the functioning of the 112 system, the Final Positions of the draft law provides for appropriate amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection and Telecommunications. I would also like to point out that the financing of this bill is set up in the Euro-2012 Preparation and Implementation Programme and budgeted in 2011, and is in the 2012 budget. The total amount of implementation of the system is 503 million dollars. The committee supports the bill in the first reading and asks the deputies to support the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u154	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Yes, the names of the national deputies. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, no doubt this proposal needs to be supported. I had the honor and opportunity to be a deputy minister in this institution, and I know how important it is for this information system to finally work. And maybe despite the fact that scientific expertise is probably the right thing to do, but it's the same case where every Ukrainian in every family, if, God forbid, there's a problem like this, everyone should know that they should get a 112 right away. Such systems work in many parts of the world. There is, of course, a powerful telecommunication system in the ministry, but it needs to be improved when it comes to this integrated system. Hence, no doubt the suggestion to support this idea in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u156	Valerius Ananiyovich Beaz, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u157	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I have personally heard for six years that we are creating a single system called "112." It may happen that we can adopt a law, it will be a financial resource, and technically we will continue to work on this system for too long. So it's bad enough that we haven't been able to ask both the deputy minister and the head of the profile committee, how technical and what time we'll be ready to implement this idea when there's a law and a financial resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u158	National MP Grivkowski. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u159	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, here were proposals in the first reading to adopt this bill. And what are the warnings, and what are the reefs, submarines, or others, that we don't have to work today, let's say we don't vote in favour of this law as a whole? A key point is, indeed, the urgency of aid. And even if not everyone has the technical capabilities at present, at any time when those to whom the dispatcher is addressed will know that a fire team must be sent at the same time. If you need a police force, an ambulance, this emergency will increase. Everyone understands that a fire does not end simply by suffering material possessions. In most cases there are people who suffer and need medical attention. The same is true of crime, wrongdoing. Usually, there is a need, at the same time, for quick help. So it seems to me that other countries, as my colleague Arjewitin correctly said, had reached a few years before that one phone immediately responded to the key emergency services, obviously it was an accident. I think we can accept this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u160	Uljana Mistpane, BUT faction, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u161	I'd like a word with Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u162	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u163	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that the idea is a good one. I'm just a bunch of warnings that came to mind. The first warning is related to the position of our scientific expertise. I'm backing him up. What, you don't have authority in the Cabinet of Ministers to make a decision and start this car to work? Because if we have the authority to determine the budget, the benefits, and so on, the Cabinet of Ministers is taking and saying, we're in line, set up by the Cabinet of Ministers, we're going to share the money. And when there's a discussion, there's such a delicate question, because that's, you know, 503 million -- that's the first approximation, and no one has counted how much it costs, because I don't know, for example, how they're going to finance the interested local executives. So how much of the local budget is going to go, how much of the central budget is going to go? I don't know what it's like to be made up of territorial bodies of a special authorized central authority on civil protection issues, how many organs are going to be created and how many people are going to have to be organized. So I think enough of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry they're doing a pilot project there on an example of one area, and then my colleague Beviz got the answer to his question, that in some area we're going to see how technically this system works. So this is an exclusive issue of government and ministry. This is not a matter for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on one technical model: providing emergency assistance. They want us to take responsibility for the struggle that goes on in the Cabinet of Ministers, lobbying one another, one another. So I think we should ask the Cabinet of Ministers to consider this issue and resolve it in accordance with established legislation and order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u164	Colleagues, discussion over. I'm going to Vitalia Petrovich, tell me, when can you run this system?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u165	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Valery of Ananievich! This system is already working well, today is a technical task in this system, and under the requirements of UEFA in the four cities where football championships will be held, these systems will be operational by summer next year. By the end of next year, we plan to introduce these systems throughout Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m1.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office made their comments to the bill. A proposal is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act on the Emergency Relief System for the Population at 112. [[Project registration number 9074]] Please vote. [[6:10:57]] For 267 Dear colleagues, the decision is made. We've got four minutes left, so I don't think we're gonna be able to consider any questions, right? Therefore, my distinguished colleagues, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work
