ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:43]] They registered in the 398 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear National Deputies! Dear guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine participates in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Dear guests! The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janovich Azarov, and the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the head and judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Head of the Court of Auditors, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Head of the State Committee for Foreign Intelligence, the Head of the Fund of State Property of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Head of the Higher Administrative Council for Justice, the Head of the State Committee for Foreign Affairs and Radiocommunication of Ukraine, the Head of the National Council of the State of the State of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Ukraine, the United States of America and the Chief of the Peoples of the United States of the United States. [[Applause]] Dear national MPs, distinguished guests! I invite President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine to announce the annual message to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukraine's internal and external situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u2	Respectable compatriots! Dear National Deputies! Before I make this call, I'd like to welcome all of you to today's festival with the Annunciation. [[Applause]] According to the Constitution of Ukraine today, I am presenting the President's next letter to the Supreme Council on Ukraine's internal and external situation in 2011, which presents the main economic, social and political sums of the past 2010. But the message is not just a report on the state of affairs in the state, it is primarily a reason to talk seriously about the problems of today and the prospects for our development. A year ago, right after the presidential elections, I addressed the message to the people of Ukraine, where I outlined the main outlines of the future agenda of action in the economy, in the humanitarian sphere, in internal and external politics. I spoke frankly about the fact that the changes that our society needs require us to concentrate our efforts, trust and patience, and to stress that our choice -- the modernisation of Ukraine -- is irreversible. At the same time, we need to understand that the policies of profound change will be carried out in the face of global global instability, new crises and new threats that we need to learn to warn and consider at the right time. The modern world is changing rapidly. It becomes multipolar, more complex and dynamic, with new opportunities and challenges for the development of each country, each community. The situation in the world economy is getting complicated. At the same time, an uncertain economic recovery is facing new challenges. Since mid-2010, there has been a sharp rise in prices based on raw materials. Global inflation is soon able to disrupt economic stability and undermine social balance in many countries. The food crisis, including the threat of hunger in individual densely populated regions of the world and the exacerbation of water shortages, is becoming one of the major challenges facing mankind. The struggle for development resources of the 21st century is intensifying on this background. In global space, tensions in international relations are increasing markedly. Environmental and technological security problems are of particular importance. Climate change is increasingly affecting civil development. Tragic events in Japan have been a shock to all mankind. The earthquake caused thousands of victims, a radiation disaster, and the suffering of millions of people. The disaster has once again demonstrated the obvious fact that only joint efforts and mutual respect will allow mankind to move forward through technological and social progress. Ukraine has a tragic experience, and we are counting on the fact that an international conference dedicated to the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster will be a major milestone in the path of global consolidation and the development of mechanisms for interaction in collective coping with environmental and technological threats. Recent developments in North Africa, in the Middle East, have once again demonstrated that the period of political and economic transformation in these parts of the world will be complex and dramatic. But I'm sure there won't be a return to the time of global opposition. In general, there is a balanced and responsible policy of the leading world powers and of the entire democratic community. Respectable compatriots! The changes in the world are strong. From this rostrum, I want to address every Ukrainian with a call: enough to complain and to be humiliated. Ukraine is a strong and ambitious state. It's time for us to be Ukrainian, to prove to ourselves and to the world that Ukraine is a leader country. [[Applause]] On what must we base our plans for modernization? First of all, our country's industrial and scientific potential remains inactive. The Ukrainian State has a unique geographical location that creates the ideal conditions for placing production in both the markets of the European Union and the countries of the Euro-Asian region. Our country has the trust of rare natural fossils, which creates wonderful opportunities for the development of production. Ukraine is a leader in the stock of the Black Earth and has everything it takes to take the position of one of the agrarian leaders of the modern world. But the main thing is the strong human capital. In spite of the crisis in domestic education, we still have a developed system of training professional personnel. A considerable potential is preserved by national academic and university sciences, and there is a large workforce of educated and professional labour. This capital creates real prerequisites for the development in our country of high-intellectual and knowledge-economy clusters. In these advantages and potentials, I see the key to the development strategy by 2020 and beyond. And it is the realization of this potential for development that will allow us to get out of a crisis period of new quality, with high economic status, with proper place in the new world distribution of work. To radically change the situation, we need to build a democratic model of the political system and modern competitive government. It is based on the rule of law, developed legal culture, balanced representative democracy, strong self-government, effective government management. Ukraine today needs a quality new economic model, based on its high productivity and productivity, active investment in technological innovation, a favourable business climate for citizens' entrepreneurial activities. The priority must be to humanize development, to ensure a new quality of life for people, to create all the necessary conditions for maximizing their creative potential. That is how I see the priorities of the reform policies that I initiated in 2010. And the first steps have already been taken. Our joint efforts have developed an economic reform agenda. The Committee on Economic Reform began to work actively. A series of significant normative acts have been adopted. In particular, the Constitutional Law on the Basic Principles of Internal and External Policy, the New Budgetary and Tax Codes. In the past year, reforms have also been initiated in various areas: judicial, regulatory, government, education, and medicine. I supported the public initiative to create the Constitutional Assembly, whose purpose is to develop proposals for the renewal of the political system and to make appropriate changes to the Constitution. And that's just part of our origins. But by giving a general assessment of the work of authority over the past period, can I be satisfied with the first sums? In advance of critics and opponents, I will immediately say no and openly say no. From the plans and plans for 2010, we were able to implement at least a third. How do I see reasons for low efficiency? For one thing, in 2010, he testified that power and society were far from ready for the proposed changes. A bureaucratic government car that has survived by any power of inertia is trying to preserve its usual management mechanisms, its administrative capabilities, and its corruption schemes of shadow earnings. National business, both large and small, has yet to take an unexpected position either as a critic or as an observer. Even so - called entrepreneurial venues were rather a critical response to government action than a productive proposal with concrete and well-founded projects for power. And in the end, millions of our people in 20 years of independence are really tired of expecting quality changes. To some extent, society has become accustomed to surviving, relying solely on its own strength and capabilities. And I understand people's fears that any radical change can make their lives even worse. But the bottom line is that we need to break the practice of delays and inertia, overcome the confusion of politicians, and overcome bureaucratic sabotage. The demand for change, for quality changes, has now become a key requirement for power, for business, for the public. But in order for reforms to become, in fact, a common concern of the state, of business, of public society, we need clear and qualitative social orientations for the future. Our efforts to modernize the country will only succeed if each step is subordinated to the humanistic development of society, the strengthening and unlocking of the potential of our human capital, which is the meaning of the Millennium Development Goals as defined by the United Nations Millennium Declaration. And this humanistic content is put in a package of reforms aimed at social capital development. First of all, it's about radically overcoming corruption. Corruption in Ukraine is a systemic phenomenon that destroys the state and humiliates every citizen who is forced to defend his interests on the basis of a shadowy relationship with officials. Today, corruption has become a direct threat to the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, so covering up corruption schemes and the timely approval of anti-corruption laws is my absolute requirement. But even these steps are not enough, shadowy corruption services and corrupt rents can only be overcome if the entire public rises to fight. I support all initiatives related to monitoring and detecting corrupters wherever they work and whatever authority they have. Overcoming corruption is also an important additional resource for economic development. I demand the law enforcement sector and our judicial corps to abide by the law, honesty in the investigation of cases and in the sentencing of the courts. That is how we will be able to put a dot in matters that are of long concern to society. Investigating the abuses of high - ranking officials from government offices, crimes against journalists, and well - known public officials will lead to a logical conclusion. For years the problem of drug abuse in Ukraine was also silent. At present, the distribution of drugs and the organization of drug trafficking has become a national threat. The fight against drugs is a fight for the future, both human and financial. Last year we declared a war on drugs and drug trafficking, and in the shortest possible terms, I'm waiting for the SAF and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to make appropriate proposals and action programmes. Special attention and care for health care And in this area, our primary concern is for children, mothers, and parents. What is the central meaning of health reform? First of all, basic guaranteed medical services must be provided financially and technologically. This is a direct mission of the Ministry of Health. Family members are expected to return to their families by family doctors who will answer and care for the health of each child and its parents. Insured medicine works for those who earn and use insurance services. Modernization of the economy, changes in the social protection system in medicine and other fields require a new quality of education. It is not the first year that Ukraine has been plagued by various experiments and money in this area. I understand the emotions of students, parents, teachers about the instability of the educational sector. But let us also speak openly about the real state of affairs. Hundreds of higher education institutions where the formal approach to obtaining a diploma predominates quality. The predominance of specialities in the humanitarian direction over the technical, which has already led to a shortage of such important professions as engineer, technologist, designer, and so forth. The situation in secondary schools and preschools is even more acute. Today, hundreds and thousands of Ukrainian schools and kindergartens are struggling to make ends meet. The professions of a teacher and a teacher are not prestigious. The steady rise in teachers' incomes, teachers' incomes, and the implementation of the Social Housing programme are about to restore the trust and hope of these beautiful people to the state. Convinced, in the area of education reform, we all have to be allies, it's a national matter. I view education reform as one of the key tasks of 2011 and the following years. Overcoming corruption in this area, making good use of the budgetary resources of the state and local authorities, training of personnel, the introduction of modern technologies, the formation of accessible educational electronic libraries, the key directions of reform. I demand from the government a well-thought-out education reform programme based on broad social support. The reform of education and education must be carried out through a broad public expertise. For my part, I will do everything I can to ensure that these reforms are accompanied by the rapid implementation of modern technology: computerization of schools, electronic textbooks, national and world literature databases. I am convinced that it is through the reform of education that we will be able to take a closer look at the radical changes in science, which also needs not only support but also profound reform. The great hope of universities, scientific research institutions and scientific centres that learn to combine fundamental science with practice, innovation and technological solutions. The accelerated commercial implementation of scientific developments is the key to the development of an innovative economy. So science reform, I think, should be closely linked to the task of developing national innovation infrastructure. Another priority of social change is pension reform. I have a lot of observations about the ideology of recent work. I spoke them directly and openly. The main objective of this reform is to guarantee decent old age for our parents while ensuring a high level of protection for our young generations, our children. To do this, we need to optimize the situation with the Pension Fund, prevent it from being drained and dependent on the state budget. At last, there must be an order with unwarranted privileges. Only work and own accomplishments will be a criterion for the level of pension insurance. There is also a need for new mechanisms for the accumulation of employees’ contributions. Finally, insurance stockpiling should be used as effectively as possible as a resource for the development of the economy in the protected and protected areas of the State. As a result, the pension system of the future will cease to be a burden for the state, an effective and reliable source of social security and an additional resource for economic development. Today, as never before, new projects in the cultural field have become more relevant. I'm convinced that the development of social language, the modernization of the Culture Channel, the creation of a real cultural and educational centre in the museum complex, the development of modern Ukrainian film production, the creation of a single library of Ukrainian and world literary heritage, are practical projects that provide a new quality of education and knowledge for everyone, regardless of age and place of residence. Dear compatriots! Dear guests! The economic downturns that began last year only take turns. Already this year, as part of the reform programme, we have identified 21 directions of work. And each of these directions with a plan of implementation is clearly set out in the national action plan, whose project is already ready to be implemented. At the same time, the ambitious goals that we have announced in 2010 require a deeper reflection and new emphasis on economic policy on a long-term perspective than at least 2020. The main long-term challenge facing us today is the pace and quality of economic competitiveness, productivity gains. Admittedly, today the national economy remains largely inefficient, depending on the environment in the external financial and commodity markets. So far, the structure of the domestic industry has preserved the dominance of the old technological systems and the production of low value added products. Basic areas are extremely expensive. The energy level of GDP in Ukraine so far exceeds the average of SNDs and nearly three economically developed countries in the world. And that's one of the main reasons why we're addicted to importing energy in unwarranted quantities. Then, the prime priority for Ukraine in the medium term is to accelerate innovation, technological and technological upgrading, and development of the fifth and sixth technological systems. Of course, the structural restructuring of Ukraine’s national industry, its efficiency and competitiveness will require considerable investment. So the success of the innovation strategy will depend directly on the state's ability to provide a favourable investment climate, create the right conditions for channelling financial, technological and organizational resources for innovative purposes. In view of this, 2011 is to be a period of building a new legal framework for the protection of investors' rights and interests, the introduction of modern industrial policy mechanisms and the provision of state support to high-tech enterprises and sectors of the economy. At the same time, there is a significant unrealized potential for internal investment in Ukraine. In order to mobilize these resources, it is primarily necessary to interest a citizen in investing in the future. The government has all the tools to do this. At the Committee on Economic Reform, we have identified three important still inactive development resources. First of all, it's deregulation and incentives for entrepreneurial initiative. With quality and systemic regulatory reform as early as next year, we can count on an additional 2 per cent increase in GDP as compared to last year and an increase in budget revenues by at least 6 billion dollars. Special attention is paid to small and medium-sized businesses. In particular, the middle - line business is most focused on innovative solutions and technological breakthroughs. The effective use of the public-private partnership mechanism will allow us to form new industries together. Secondly, it's an acceleration in the privatization process. With a rational organization, the government budget can receive tens of billions of dollars each year. At the same time, the arrival of an effective owner will unlock the process of technological and technological modernization of production, increase productivity of work, and increase the revenue of the state budget at the expense of additional taxes. Third, the earth. Today, the moratorium on the purchase and sale of agricultural land inhibits the development of domestic agriculture. The ban makes it impossible to create efficient agricultural enterprises based on a concentration of land ownership. Arrangements for the introduction of a regulated agricultural land market should then be made primarily and urgently. The main task is to launch a full land market in the coming years and at the same time to create reliable legal guarantees for the use of land for direct use. At the same time, I stress that all steps in this direction will be carried out in a broad public dialogue. No farming family working on earth will be discriminated against. Dear colleagues! Ukraine’s future as a prosperous European state depends primarily on us all. Therefore, reform of the security and defence sector is particularly important in the reform agenda. During the 20 years of independence, this defining component of the State has not been given due attention. For a long time, Ukraine has been using its security resource as a result of an inheritance that came to our country with the collapse of the former Soviet Union. Today, this resource is almost exhausted. Today, the security and defence sectors in Ukraine have been severely weakened. Now we're correcting this situation. During 2010, radical decisions were adopted on the development of the national defence and industrial complex, and a new governance scheme was created. In 2010, we prepared an updated National Security Strategy for Ukraine. A qualitatively new military doctrine has already been worked out that takes into account changes in the military and political environment that emerges from our State's non-block policy. A new concept of reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is under way, which will define a new model of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In this context, once again, the policy of non-blocking is the cornerstone of Ukrainian external and security doctrine. Blockage is seen by Ukraine as a consistent position for the protection of national interests without participation in military alliances, which creates the necessary opportunities for developing partnerships, inter-community relations with other states and international organizations in all directions. We understand that most of today's challenges and threats are global. Their overcoming requires unifying the efforts of countries around the world and common approaches to ensuring regional and global security. And Ukraine is ready for that kind of cooperation. Our main priority today is to support the course on global nuclear disarmament, to participate actively in the creation of a European security system, and to seek ways for the final demilitarization of the European continent. [[Applause]] Ukraine will be consistent in supporting the idea of creating a nuclear-free zone in the Central-Eastern European region. To achieve this goal, our nation is open to dialogue and cooperation with all partner countries and international security organizations. In particular, Ukraine will continue to interact with NATO, implement joint projects with the OSCE countries, the ODCB, other regional security structures. Ukraine was and will continue to be a global counter-restraint of peace and stability. Ukraine will continue to participate actively in United Nations peacekeeping. For over a year, Ukraine has been implementing a qualitatively new foreign policy course based on the concept of national pragmatism. Its basic elements were: non-block measurement, ideological neutral partnership policy in relations with Russia and the SND countries, with the European Union, the United States, Turkey, China, and countries. by other nations and regional associations. By rejecting the ideological clichés in foreign politics, Ukraine was able to significantly expand the circle of partners, develop new vectors of diplomatic activity. Contact with countries in Central and South East Asia, Latin America, has begun to break into relations with the People's Republic of China. The fundamental component of the concept of national pragmatism is the strategy of Ukraine's European integration. Today, Ukraine is actively negotiating the Association Agreement. The signing of this agreement will create preconditions for Ukraine's full integration into European economic, social, cultural and legal space. Already this year, we want to compromise to remove differences in positions and to sign the Association Agreement and create a free trade zone. In 2010, Ukraine and the European Union took a qualitative step forward in the field of visa-free dialogue. During the summit, Ukraine-EU was announced to provide Ukraine with an action plan for visa liberalisation. In order to move on to the EU visa-free regime in 2011, we have a number of technical tasks to perform. In particular, in the areas of document security, migration, public order. I'm sure we'll do it by the end of the year. I would like to point out that the Euro-integration course has not been and will not harm the development of a strategic partnership with Russia. For Ukraine, normalizing relations with Russia became an integral part of its European choice. In 2010, we carried out an important part of the bilateral agenda -- we restored full dialogue, economic cooperation, and we came up with a new formula for the strategic partnership between Ukraine and Russia. The signing of the Declaration on the Content of the Ukrainian-Russian Strategic Partnership will be another testimonial of the seriousness of our intentions and the legitimate outcome of the joint work in the near future. At the same time, our principle is that bilateral relations should be based on mutual respect for national interests. It is on this basis that we are discussing today the issue of Ukraine's cooperation with the Customs Union. I believe that further development of relations with the Customs Union will be based on a new contractual basis for free trade agreements and a possible package agreement on cooperation under the three plus one formula. This will enable us to provide a real course for the convergence of European and European economic spaces. We will continue to develop strategic partnerships with the United States on the basis of the 2008 Charter. We give priority to the political dialogue in the security sphere, the interaction in the fight against international terrorism and conflict resolution. Ukraine will remain a trusted partner of the United States in maintaining strategic stability and security, which is our unchangeable position. Respectable compatriots! Our task is to get Ukraine out of the historic pit of the transitional period that it has experienced through constant crises, through the struggle for power and property, to guarantee the realization of the unwritten but life-important rights of every citizen to free development, to success, to honest life and to ordinary human happiness, to live in a just, free and open society, to ensure justice and the rule of law in practice. Crime must be condemned and punished morally, administratively, and criminally. Convinced that this year we will change our attitude toward justice and restore our faith in the justice of the law and the irreparability of punishment. Ukraine is to become a contemporary of the 21st century, not a periphery and resource for the development of others, to claim to be a modern political nation that creates history along with the most ambitious and energetic societies. In the end, we will work together to ensure the gradual development of democratic institutions, to create a new Ukraine together. In these tasks, the philosophy of reform, the meaning of the idea of modernizing Ukraine. It is in the pursuit of these tasks that, to my deep conviction, is our common national goal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u3	Thank you to the President of Ukraine for his statement to the Supreme Council on Ukraine's external and internal situation. Thank you all for attending this meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear national deputies, in accordance with Rule 169 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I hereby declare a recess of 20 minutes until 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. We have a good opportunity to welcome our colleague Mikhail Vasilovich Zubz with his birthday. [[Applause]] Let me inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on April 6. 11 issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of their consideration, 2 laws were passed, 1 bill was passed on the basis, 1 bill was returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, 6 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. Let's move on to today's agenda. Some drafts and other acts are being considered. Bill 8343 registration number. Dear colleagues, a few words about information. We have repeatedly consulted the Conciliation Board with the committee boards to conduct an audit on the committees on which legislative acts have already become obsolete and do not meet the constitutional parameters, changes that have occurred in the Constitution that do not correspond to the adoption of new laws. And it was at this angle that they asked to clear the field of legislation by recording those bills that had already become obsolete. The President of the Supreme Council, according to the Committees of Profiles, introduces a decree of the Supreme Council on the withdrawal of certain bills and other acts under registration number 8343. If there's no comment, dear colleagues, I'll put it to the vote. Please be supportive. [[11:04:36]] For 206 Please, Sass microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u5	Thank you, Sergey Sass. Adam Ivanovich! Now we're going to discuss the matter in the agenda, the State Service Act. So you know very well, I remind you that 100 articles of the Rules provide for the opportunity for the people's deputies to introduce alternative bills within a 14-day period is the right of the people's MP. There are 101 articles, if the Bills are recognized by the President-in-Office, and in this case there is, the Supreme Council may decide to shorten the terms, but the Supreme Council has not made any decisions on this matter, it has barely included the matter in the agenda, but only half of the time can be cut, i.e. seven days after the bill has been passed to the Ukrainian National Deputy. A bill given two days ago, I wanted to clarify who gave you the right, not to refer to the Conciliation Council, because it's an advisory body, to be taken away.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u6	Sergei Volodymyrovich, we're still talking about 8343 of the drafts, we're going to go to another, we're going to talk about something else. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u7	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I understand that, just after such a profoundly meaningful statement by the President, the MPs are discussing his statement in the classrooms, and here, they are simply not focusing on this particular work issue. I therefore propose that we return to the agenda again, return to the issue of withdrawing some of the bills, putting to the vote and voting. It's just that the deputies aren't here yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! I'm once again drawing your attention to the situation that we haven't left the break yet, and, of course, some of our colleagues are busy with things. One encounters journalists about their impressions of what they hear, others grasping the hands of members of the Cabinet of Ministers to solve some of the problems associated with the life of the electorate, that is life and that is understandable. So once again, I invite all my colleagues to the session room, because we need to make responsible decisions. Once again, the draft ruling proposed by the Head of the Supreme Council is based solely on the application of the committees of profile. The fact that the committees in their sessions have not been one-on-one, but in their sessions have considered and taken decisions to withdraw bills that have become invalid, I repeat, is that we have a joint proposal with you, essentially, based on Decree No. 8343. I am voting on a motion to return to the vote on this issue. Please be supportive. [[11:08:12]] For 251 We're back. Thank you. I am voting on the adoption of a decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of certain bills and other acts. [[Registration number 8343]] Please vote. [[11:08:41]] For 242 It's been decided. Let us turn to the draft Law on State Service. [[Registration number 8306]] Report – Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, prepare for Demčišen's report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u9	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the draft State Service Act has been developed as an important element of administrative reform in Ukraine and aimed at improving the quality of governance in the Ukrainian State. The adoption of the bill will contribute to a comprehensive reform of state administration and the creation of a professional political and neutral and effective public service in Ukraine. The bill lays down the foundations of the public service, the order of entry into the public service, its passage and termination, and the legal status of the civil servant. According to the bill, the public service as a public-law institution whose main functions are to prepare proposals for the formation of public policy, to ensure its implementation, to provide administrative services to individuals and legal entities, and to provide appropriate professional activities for civil servants. In addition, the bill deals in particular with the basic principles of public service. The State Service is proposed to be divided into groups and subgroups, depending on the functions and responsibilities of government officials. The distribution of posts establishes a clearer classification depending on the nature and scope of the duties, depending on the organizational and legal decision and the level of that authority of the State, which was created in the Ukrainian State. A new approach to the classification of public service posts is primarily based on the functions performed by government officials in public authorities rather than on the legal status of the body itself. At the very least, I want to say that the general approach to public service has, of course, a separate segment that concerns government officials and those to whom only a fraction of the requirements for public service apply, are those officials who ensure the performance of the functions of political actors, such as the President of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And it was the question of those in the public service who were helping to perform the functions of the Ukrainian National Deputies. The general concept did not provide for the inclusion in this project of those who provide for the activities of Ukrainian national deputies. Since the issue of departure from the general concept is already in the hands of the solution, the Head of State sees in this case the possibility of us taking such a step that the assistants working with the national deputies should be compared to the status, to those of the public officials who work in the protective services of other politicians. So we can completely remove any problem that concerns the status of assistants to those who work at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The law also regulates the legal status of every civil servant. The basic rights of civil servants include the right to safe conditions of service, the payment of employment, the results of service activities, and others that are laid down in the law and provide for a response to and protection of any professional activity of a public official in the event that unlawful means are applied to it. The bill provides for the establishment of requirements for the political neutrality and loyalty of a civil servant. By the way, I also want to say that the political neutrality and loyalty of government officials to the politicians who run the government is a requirement for the public service of democratic countries, it's being implemented in virtually all democratic countries. And I would like to remind you that President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine initiated the depoliticisation of the state service as Prime Minister of Ukraine. And this draft of the State Service Act 2006 was discussed here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Similarly, as the leader of the opposition, in 2008, National Deputy Janukovic Viktor Fedorovich initiated the draft Law on State Service, where he also proposed, and, of course, consistently supporting the depoliticization and professionalization of the State Service, President Janukovitch Viktor Fedorovich proposed the same position. At the same time, I want to say that such positions are in the legislation of many countries, particularly many countries such as Hungary, Poland, Germany, Great Britain, Ireland. In virtually all countries, the depoliticization of the public service is ensured in various forms. The allegations that this was to be resolved in the Constitution are also not entirely justified. I would like to remind you that the issue of participation in political life has been resolved by many laws of Ukraine that regulate the activities of the tax service, customs service, military personnel and many others, more than 10 laws, where there are restrictions on political activity. Understanding the urgency of the discussion that arose among politicians and parliamentarians, and understanding the need for a joint approach with the opposition, including the building of an effective public service, the head of State does not insist that it be tied to political party membership. And this position is not the key to this law. So it can be said today that if there is a desire for other instruments to limit the political influence on the public service, the question of parity can be removed altogether from this draft law. According to the draft law, public officials, within the limits of their powers, must objectively and impartially comply with the legal requirements of their leaders and the mechanism of protection against illegal requirements, when they are treated, being protected by standards that produce a mechanism of opposition to such approaches. The draft law also addresses the issue of promotion in public service, the training of civil servants for entry into the public service, the provision of mandatory competitive conditions for entry into the public service. It is proposed to abandon the Human Resources Reserve Institute, which has demonstrated its inefficiency in the Ukrainian State, and to provide opportunities for every Ukrainian citizen who has appropriate training and is ready to accept a number of restrictions imposed by the public service, of course with some compensation for these restrictions, so that they can enter the public service in the context of the competition. What we are proposing to change is the management of the public service, and it is also an important step to ensure that the extra politicization is not present in the authorities of the state when the head of the public authority has an apparatus or other person, if it is provided by law in other authorities, to the fullest extent and to organize the activities of the body and the work of each public official. The draft law provides for conditions for the responsibility of a civil servant for his work and direct dependence on the results of his work on stimulating the quality of the work of every civil servant. There is an increase in the value of government salaries and a change in the pay system that will increase the standard of living of those in the public service. These articles of the law are intended to be introduced a little later, after the comprehensive completion of the reform in Ukraine and the establishment of a stable, significantly smaller number on the public service, when the State Budget of Ukraine will be able to perform this basic job. Thank you for your attention. Please support the initiative of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u10	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please sign up for the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u11	Yes, please, Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Thank you for your word. I would like to say that the bill, of course, you know, as they say, is causing a rather strong, rather intense discussion among the people's deputies and perhaps in the rest of society. There are some of those that cause concern. First. To this day, we are being brought out outside the civil service of the helpers. And yet, even if we do, the question that in principle makes it impossible for them to be partyally, in my opinion, will create some obstacles for each national deputy to have a full normal team of his assistants. The other one. There are issues in this bill that relate to receiving credit benefits. It seems to me that a civil servant who has no other protection than he has today had the right to receive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u13	Yes, I'm sorry, but the questions you're asking, you've probably been gone, they've already been answered in the report. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u14	Well, I can do it again, of course. That what is involved with the national deputies of Ukraine is proposed to leave the existing order. It is regulated by the Law on the Status of the National MP of Ukraine, which is now in the first chapter of this draft law, amending the status of the civil servant of those in the public service to enjoy all the rights and duties of a member of the protective service of a political actor. As far as housing lending is concerned for government officials who are on the turn of the house, and it is predicted that half of the loan can be paid by the State if a government official collects a loan for housing on his own without waiting for a new one, it is one of the types of encouragement that should be accepted for those who perform their duties in good faith at the service of the State and who are at the same time in charge as a person who needs to improve housing conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u15	Matthew Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u16	Alexander Volodymyrovich, Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, block "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I have two questions for you. Are you familiar with the conclusion of the Science and Technology Department, and why didn't you say anything about it? If possible, though, about part of the unconstitutionality of a number of norms contained in this bill, and how should we react to them? And the second question is, there's money like a special check that's just declared but not prescribed. I would like you to explain what this standard is and how it would be possible and how to clarify the Rules of this special examination and how it is aligned with other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u17	As to the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office, I deliberately took it with me, but then I left it there now, the answer of the law experts working at the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to the positions that are being taught by the specialists who work at that office. I think few in this room will doubt that the level of qualification in the various areas of the rights of those who work in the Ministry of Justice is declining to the level of qualification of those who work in the Supreme Council. I can tell you that all the concerns that are there are the nature of conceptual discussions. And with regard to constitutionality, I can tell you with responsibility that there is no position that conflicts with the basic law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u18	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u19	Please pass the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u20	Valentina Matthew's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u21	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich, in your report you said about this, so I realized that you agree that the assistant consultants of the national deputies were excluded from the position that says they can't be civil servants. Yes. But then tell me, at the same time, when you're talking about this thesis, and what about being an assistant consultant to a national MP from a political party, not being a member of this party? So what's a national MP who's going to pick someone but not a member of the party? I mean, a civil servant, an assistant consultant to a national MP, totally depoliticized is allogeneic. First. And secondly, I think that the prohibition is groundless, which is contrary.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u22	Valentin Grigorovitch, I want to tell you that you listened carefully to the first part of the report, and the second part probably didn't. Because right after that, I said that this position, which concerns political party membership, is not crucial to this law, and there is an understanding that, if it is critical, the President of the State is ready to be absent from this law. And the issue of political neutrality of government officials was resolved by other mechanisms. Thus, the question of a public servant working in a protective service or a political actor does not stand at all. Of course, you will choose those helpers you will consider necessary and with the party ticket that is acceptable to you. This question is not a conflict today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u23	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. 65 years, pension, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, the project suggests that government officials retire at 65 years of age. Here are some questions that arise today, I want to say that the institution for the continuation of the right to remain in the public service is engaged in full volume. And those who have worked in various government agencies know that when the retirement age of a civil servant fits, about half of what I can recall in my memory in the bodies where I work and work are asked to continue in the public service. And we're giving the opportunity to ensure, in the context of future pension reform, the right! - Every citizen who works in the civil service to work until he's 65 years old. If he does not want to continue in the public service, he may go from there, and he is subject to general pension legislation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Of course. Yeah. If he does not want to continue in the public service. This question gives the right to choose for a civil servant and does not require him to ask for a year, for two to continue the public service, as is the case today. There were other questions about special tests, Adam Ivanovich. So with regard to special checks, there is no money available here, these are the same checks that are being carried out for certain categories today, when a civil servant assumes a position related to the admission to state secrecy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u25	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee, the head of the State Building and Local Government Subcommittee, Demcišen Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u26	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhajlović, reviewed, at its meeting on 30 March 2011, the draft Law on State Service of 25 March this year, introduced by President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovič of Ukraine, and recognized as an urgent matter for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As just mentioned by Alexander Volodymyrovich, the bill was drafted as part of an administrative reform, one of which is to improve the quality of government. The committee supported some of the innovations proposed in the bill, namely: the introduction of the concept and definition of the powers of the Head of State Service in the public authority exercised by the administration of the public service in those bodies; the introduction of a systematic qualification of public service posts, depending on the nature and scope of official duties and duties, and on the legal and organisational level of the body concerned; the definition of the only conditions for entry into the public service through an open competition, except for senior public service posts; establishing a new approach to paying public servants by increasing the role of official salary; Establishing a comprehensive list of grounds for termination of the public service, etc. During an active discussion of the bill at a committee meeting with representatives of the Ministry of Justice, a number of comments were made on specific provisions, particularly those that were already highlighted by the Minister of Justice. In particular, we stressed membership in the political parties of government officials, and already in detail, the minister gave an exhaustive answer, I think, to that question. The bill also provides for the appointment of assistants. The previous speaker mentioned this too. But I would like to emphasize, Alexander Volodymyrovich, the positions of assistants to the Supreme Council of Crimea and the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The bill states that its position on the establishment of minimum general requirements to the level of appropriate professional competence of persons when entering the public service does not extend to the role of the guardian service. The Committee believes that such an exceptional approach to determining appropriate requirements for applicants for public service positions will not contribute to reducing the level of corruption. It requires substantial revision of the article on socio-economic security for civil servants in determining the size of the loan for the purchase and construction of housing, etc. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its general conclusion, recommends that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development in the first reading. At the same time, we decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the bill as a basis for adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u27	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Please sign up for the question. Vasil Vasilovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, three minutes. Sergey was sore.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u28	Sobolev, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland", the Party "The Reforms and Orders". Dear reporter! President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic was just before you, who took the initiative of every bill to analyse the corruption component. This is my clear position that this is one of those bills that will directly contribute to the growth of corruption. Have you analyzed the key positions of this bill on the committee for a corrupt component? If so, please tell us what warnings you have about this, because the next report that you support this bill, and then after the adoption and adoption of it in the first reading, and even more frighteningly, in general, you start to make changes, as was the case with tax legislation and dozens of other acts, would it not be wise at the first stage of its consideration to stop those directly corrupt acts that the bill envisages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u29	Thank you for asking, but you didn't say any, let's say, which one was the draft, which one. Where there are corrupt schemes. We've studied this bill carefully, and we've gone along the way that this bill has the right to life, because it's once again one of the components of the reform that the President of Ukraine initiated. Because of this, we accept it as a basis, and we will have time to work carefully on it for the second reading and to adopt the law that our nation now needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u30	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u31	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear Vassil Vasilovich, both in your report and in your report, and in the report, and in people's questions, there might be a question that's not what's important is the question of changing the status of assistants of the National Deputies. That's it. In general, you'll notice, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has done, with a note that these are the main notes, with a more detailed increase in the number of them on the 26 pages of the notes. So it changes completely ideologies, it changes the essence of public service, it changes the understanding of public service. There are many questions that need to be discussed. Do you think that the second reading can eliminate all these flaws? And one more thing. Questions about change. Depoliticization. There's been a lot of talk here. Some governors, by the way, have already begun depoliticizing. On behalf of the Party of the Regions. In practice, this will mean that it will be the only party of the Party of Regions, of other thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. In fact, the 26-page science-expert administration made their remarks to the bill. There are many positions. I don't want to get into the details too much right now. There are also government officials from local authorities to executive authorities, and so on, there are many questions. I'm convinced that we're working together, and we're going to have two weeks before the second reading, so we can work out this bill peacefully. I think we can do this. It's about politicization. This is the president's position, let's say. And I think, and I'm convinced that our political power will do them consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u33	Have a seat, please. Please register with the factions. Please, from the deputies, let us take 30 minutes to discuss the matter with you in order to complete the discussion before the break, then we will announce the break depending on how the situation is going to be. Karmazin "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", to prepare Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u34	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Dear fellow citizens! I sincerely welcome everyone with the Annunciation, let God give everyone the good news, but Minister, I also welcome you, but today you did not preach the good news from here, preaching for this bill. It's been a while since I've had to read oats that have 45 pages of text, 46 pages of text, but 31 pages of scientific expertise. So one page of text, one page of notes, almost, with a small coefficient. It's a record, Alexander Volodymyrovich! A record, I would say, of the incompetence of the people who prepared it. Just like the record today was when the President delivered the message, and the message said that he eventually had the authors, in that letter. Isn't the president showing up? So I'd like to see that, too, the drafters write then, and who, in order to be able to ask questions and understand the degree of the qualifications of the authors who have done this administrative reform, which is distributed to all the government officials, who now need to issue decrees all the time, new and new, and change everything about optimizing the system of central executives. Yesterday's order, two services were eliminated, two were renamed, and another seven were re-created. People are good, but they can't stand any budget! By the way, respectable, according to the budget. First of all, I'm saying that this project is unconstitutional in many ways, it's making the rights of those citizens who have dedicated their lives to the service of the country, for which it's a basic function. And I want to bring you back to the understanding that is now, thank God, in the current Ukrainian State Service Act, where the State Service is a professional activity. And we have to write that this is a voluntary professional activity of people who hold positions in public authorities and in their apparatus for practical execution of tasks and the functions of the state, and they get a salary at the expense of government funds. I want to say that this bill cannot be adopted in the first reading, it has to be sent to the trash. I'm more thorough than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u35	Mikola Kravchenko, a faction of Communists, prepare for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, a difficult law must tell you. It is not just about the civil servants, it is about a million specialists who have undergone certain stages of their reconstruction and the loss of government may arise as a result of the adoption of the law. I, listening carefully to Minister Lavrinović, have been depoliticized, de-departmented, that is, today, speaking of the fact that they are throwing away the bones of the Supreme Council, removing these notions of “depoliticization” and “department” and thus wanting to go on a more sinister moment of 65 years. Look, what's going on? It's for both women and men. What's going on? For 60 years, a person is forced to retire on general grounds, i.e. he will not be subject to the Civil Service Act. Thus, up to 65 years of age persons will not be able to work, i.e. they will not be subject to the Civil Service Act. I therefore propose that we vote today as a matter of urgency on what the Minister has promised. Before voting on the first reading, it is necessary to vote on the exception of what the Minister has spoken of, which is assistant consultants, department and so on. It's not about not having our televised and electorate moments that the Communists are only concerned about the public. It is the case that the Assistant Adviser of the People's Deputy, a political party, is represented by a political party and performs its functions on behalf of that party and, at the direction of that party, cannot be departed in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u37	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Behind him is the Upper.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u38	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I think the discussion about the need to reform the public service is, in principle, inappropriate, because everyone can say that it is today at the wrong level, which should be in a European country, if we think of ourselves as a European country. So it's an axiom, I'm not discussing it. I want to talk about other things. You know what's not in this project and what's in practice in Ukraine for many years? The civil servant, especially the middle chain, we don't have any attitude in the country: he's absolutely uncertain about tomorrow, he can be thrown out in any situation. And there's a lot of, in fact, mass examples, like in district administrations, district administrations, there's a 15-year-old who's been working perfectly for 20 years, without catching up, without any claims, there's a new team coming and being thrown out, 45-year-old, 50-year-old, and she's being thrown out, and there's nothing to be offered, and there's nothing to be done. So I think that the basis of the philosophy of change or reform of the public service should be attention to government officials, otherwise they won't work fully because they don't trust those who put them. Such attention, which is in Germany, which is in France, should be studied, by the way, by that experience. The next moment. There are many debates about political neutrality, party membership, or the absence of government officials. I found standards that just have to be translated into law. These standards are set out in the typical Code of Conduct for Officials of State Authorities and Local Self-Government, the Model Code - called the States members of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. It makes it quite clear how to fight against a civil servant working for the state, not in this case for his political party. For example: "The owner must remain politically neutral and cannot attempt to act against the legal instructions, decisions or actions of the public authorities." It's an international practice, it's a European document, it has to be incorporated, and it doesn't have to be invented. Next. "In carrying out their duties, the official shall not allow himself to be used for the purposes of political parties." This needs to be incorporated into our legislation. So I think the European experience shows that it is not the philosophy of the prohibition of political participation that should be present in this legislation, but that it is the definition of the limits of this activity. This is a completely different, correct, modern, European approach -- defining the boundaries of the political activity of a civil servant. And yet a very important moment, I just can't help but say it, why does it break away.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u39	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u40	For some reason, the civil servant’s rights to work are separated from the general right to work. That a public servant is not subject to the Labour Law? And there's been a reduction, a narrowing of the possibilities and rights of a civil servant. Because the Labour Code sets out the rights of all Ukrainian citizens who work better. This document will have to be worked on seriously enough. There's a lot of trouble in there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u41	Upstairs, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Get ready for a hunchback.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u42	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, a venerable presidency! A few minutes ago, the president of Ukraine spoke out of this rostrum, which he identified as one of the tasks of increasing the legal culture. So today's consideration of this issue in this room, with a grave violation of the Supreme Council Rules, is an illustration of what the President says one thing and his party is doing, his majority in this room is quite different, the opposite. No legal culture! The committee considered this question, they told you, 30 numbers, on the fifth day after his registration. What deputies taught him? None. It was put into the agenda by the voice. But even the 15 minutes that were on the committee gave us the opportunity to point out the shortcomings that exist in the committee. And this is reflected in the committee's manual. But if you look at the findings of the Scientific and Expert Office, not only does the bill conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, it contradicts the European Charter, which is 60 years old and under which Ukraine has also signed the Charter of Human Rights. But what is the essence of the document? I'm very confused by one point in this law. Section 5 of Article 4 does not extend to assistants and advisors of the President of Ukraine the provisions of the law establishing minimum general requirements for professional competence, the possibility of testing a public official to determine the level of his professional competence. Ladies and gentlemen, this tells us that we will soon have lovers working for the President. If there are no basic requirements for a professional level, for the educational level of this person who first receives the documents that prepares them for the President's signature and so forth. I'm sure 100 percent of them here realize that the President doesn't read all the documents, they read just counselors and assistants. And if they don't have a professional level, that's why we live like this, so the documents come out raw. And this law is a very vivid illustration of that. That's why we think this document has to be accepted by the scientific and expert department and sent to the authors for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u43	Yes. Garbage, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready for Najdion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u44	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! The bill, which is brought to our attention, is, in fact, a complex and problematic document, around which, unfortunately, serious passions tend to flourish. And that's why I would ask you to approach him today, not from a political point of view, but from a professional point of view. Along with the positive sides, however, this act of law also contains a large number of additional problems that have created and caused considerable social resonance. We need to understand that it is much simpler and more effective to polish the law than to write an ideal position without the practice of application. The Ukrainian Act on State Service of 1993 laid a solid foundation for the establishment of a public service institution, but today it is unable to ensure the new quality of the public service required by society, especially at the time of the administration. There is a need for a new law on public service to be adopted, which will be based on a transparent and accountable system of government administration that ensures the only standards of professionalism throughout the public service, taking into account the practices of EU countries and Ukrainian traditions. The adoption of the new State Service Act will be an important political step and will serve as an internal interest of society and state, ensuring a new quality of government and the creation of a professional, politically neutral and effective public service in Ukraine. It will also continue to work on the Ukrainian Cabinet Act and the central executive authorities. And to the opposition. I can't understand you, dear colleagues. When you often criticize us for being represented mainly by the majority of the executive members of our political party. And now that you've adopted this bill today, many of our executive branch leaders will form their powers as a party member, that's exactly what we are depoliticizing the executive branch of power. This is a normal step that will enable the authorities to manage all processes in the state more effectively. I think you should, on the contrary, support the things we offer. Dear colleagues! This is an extremely important and urgent law. That is why the President of Ukraine initiated his introduction to the Supreme Council. I urge you to follow up on the results of the first reading to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u45	Yes, please, Nayden's Andrew, the Communist faction. Prepare Shishkini. Handing over Samuel to Catherine. Please. Please, Catherine Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u46	Thank you very much. And I invite my fellow Ukrainian national deputies to vote in favour of sending this bill for further work. Only in that case, if the remarks made by colleague Matthew, colleague Kravchenk and others are removed from the bill here, it can be voted for in the first reading. Otherwise, we have to go to work. What I'm getting out of, my own personal reflection. All of this is a continuation of the idea of pension reform through a specific category. These are the first steps in implementing non-existent pension legislation. Look, a civil servant, a woman, whether you're a man or a man, has to work till she's 65 years old. This is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, is it not? There's a violation of the Constitution. Is this a violation of existing legislation? It's a violation of the law. You don't have to go through separate categories. I want to ask you a question. What will be decided by the adoption of this bill? Will new jobs arise? No, it's not. What, young people may join in the public ministry? Never in our lives, because soon and before we're 90 years old, we'll be able to lift that plank. And so, of course, the purpose of the bill is to piecemeally implement the pension reform that is proposed to us. Where is politicization and decentralisation? Well, it also doesn't correspond to either the basic law or the existing legal framework. Well, please tell me, the party got a lot of leverage in the election, not just one party, but the other. And at that time all those who have fought for victory must abandon the ranks of this political party. Tell me, where is the logic? And does this not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine? It is, of course, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. I think it was not necessary to start with this, but in general to negate the Constitution of Ukraine, and then to act in the way that we are offered to make decisions in the session room. So once again, if we don't get the issues out here, then this bill needs to be sent for work. And do not let anyone think that this applies only to the assistants of the national deputies of Ukraine, many who have given their health, their youth, their wisdom, and their mind to the service of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u47	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Please, Shishkina, the "BOUT" faction is "The Fatherland." Prepare Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u48	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Let us take a close look at the law. What can we see? Only the first chapter of this law is called the State Service. The next chapter is already called the "Legal Status of a Civil Service Officer" and is still in the text of only the positions relating to the conduct of a public service, that is, the status of a civil servant. Thus, can the Law on State Service be referred to as the Law? Not for me. Rather, this law is the law of a civil servant; there is little to say about public service. So I have a question, and in general, in the preparation of this law, were the labors of Ukrainian law taken into account, for example, in the development of public and public service, of those who made the centre of political and legal reform at the time? I have a question to the honourable Minister: "Have you been guided by articles such as Igor Borisovich Koliushka, Roman Kuibida, the late today of Vadim Borisovich Averianov on administrative reform, reform of administrative law, public service, general functions of government and public service?" Why is there nothing in this law about public service, the only term we meet in article 17 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice? I mean, I have observations about this law that are already doctrinal, not those that apply to individual regulations. This law cannot be taken as a basis and, in general, is all the more so. It doesn't just have to be sent for work, it needs to be rejected. This law is not progressive at all; it does not take into account European experience, European practice, which clearly divides into public service, and is a division into public service. And the concept of public service is broader than it is, and it includes the concept of public service. This bill doesn't say a word about it, and it's built on the same principles on which the Act on State Service is now in force. That's why I don't think the faction of Yulia Timoshenko won't support this bill. And we call on everyone not to vote it out, but to send it back to work, all the more so that there are many positions that are unconstitutional. Even though the minister of justice does not want to admit it, for example, the rule to prohibit public officials from participating in political parties, that is, being members of political parties is a direct violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitution of Ukraine does not contain a requirement, does not prohibit civil servants except for the only category – judges, does not prohibit them from being members of political parties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u49	Olga Bodnar, BUT faction. Yavorovsky's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u50	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland, Fatherland Party. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Thank you for the support of my colleagues for the thought that I am about to make, and I am very impressed by the manner in which the keynote speakers speak: a report from the Ministry of Justice, the minister, and the co-rapporteur. Well, you can't say with such a sad voice and sad manners what a beautiful bill you're presenting. Even your conduct shows that you do not even share what you yourself have said. The Law on the State Service of Ukraine is the subject of our consideration today. Our outstanding reform authority has already begun to destroy the Ukrainians and is actively building a new Ukraine. At first, it introduced pension reform, and now tax reform can. She was very happy to be accepted, and now we are in the process of administrative reform. The State Service Bill is already the third project in a package of sad administrative reform, which has been abrogated by the government. You can't say that administrative reform is such a simple thing that you can just rewrite names, like ministries and sign them there to assign your boys to the post there, and now do something that makes the public service unattractive and thus think that the reform is going to be done in the best way possible. The proposed reform of the public service can soon affect not only hundreds of thousands of civil servants but also ordinary citizens who approach officials daily. So any mistakes in this case will have tremendous consequences. One of the main principles of public service is the principle of professionalism. Ladies and gentlemen, you are all very fashionable at this time in protecting your candidate, doctorate directly in the government and in the public service. But you do not know that the principle of professionalism is the most important principle in order for people to be able to receive qualified assistance by turning to government officials and that the state was not standing on clay pillars. In adopting this law, first of all we have to give a clear answer: What benefits will it bring to society? Unfortunately, for ordinary citizens, I can't see the positive in it. First of all, he points to the cynicism of power in relation to the civil service. A whole series of positions from the circle???? State officials, public officials who perform auxiliary functions are excluded from its sphere, instead of from the office of Assistants and Advisers of the President, the posts of guardians of the Cabinet members are referred to the categories of highest-ranking civil servants. This is the reform we are proposing. Apparent depoliticization. Better at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u51	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u52	Rather, it would be best to ban government officials from taking part in peaceful activities, and this would be the best way to ensure their own interests. The most important issue is the financing of this reform. According to the explanatory note, the adoption of the bill does not require additional expenditure from the State budget. Yet, for some reason no one takes note of the provision of article 7 of the bill, according to which public service funding is envisaged not only at the expense of the state budget but also at the local level. What does that mean? This means that the local authorities will have to think, not about roads, street lighting, and wages, the part of the wages that are foregone for their residents, but about getting additional money. I guess, in principle, where does it take this money? By the way, I suggest to the authorities one more step: you promised teachers and doctors to include them in government officials, run, run, pass this law, and then you won't have any problems with intelligence in Ukraine at all, because either students who can't work so far or people of pre-retirement age who unfortunately can't find a financially secure, nice job there. And like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u53	Thank you. Thank you, you've already got two hours. Excuse me, Olga Borisovna. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u54	Good afternoon, Ukraine! You, Ukraine, are already divided into all possible versions, which are only religious, ethnic, linguistic, and geographical. And the President has just stated from this rostrum that the fight against corruption will be brought to an end. I have this feeling that it's already being brought to an end, that it can be completed, because all the new and new laws that are now being enacted by the government are actually just strengthening and legalizing the very corruption of the Ukrainian government. I honestly thought that this bill would implement one of the President's promises that might have given him the biggest "navar" vote, so I would say, is that Ukrainian doctors and Ukrainian educators would become civil servants. I would like to welcome you, our doctors and teachers: as you can see, you have forgotten your promises in the election. Literally, there was a very interesting conversation in Brussels, which looked at the political elite of Europe: the Horschenin Institute was doing a report on "The Great Ukrainian Business and the Government of Ukraine". In fact, Councilman Jerzy Buzzik said a very interesting phrase: "In a normal democratic society there must be a clear chapter between civil servants, political leaders and business." Of course, their cooperation is needed. However, when all of this is in one hand, responsibility is washed away, reporting to society is virtually gone. And there were some unique examples: out of the 16 members of the Ukrainian government five, I emphasize, people, remember, five of them are official, I repeat, official, and I repeat, official millionaires. But we know that unofficially many of them are also billionaires. I'll call these names, please state officials! I call these names: Andrew Cleavov, Boris Kolesnikov, Sergey Tihypco, Yuri Boyko, and Mikola Jury. And two more are Baloga and Zloczevski, and I think no one doubts that they are unofficial millionaires. That's because First Deputy Prime Minister Andrey Klovev increased in just one year, one year, and they plan to be long, in one year he increased his capital by half a billion dollars. As a result, once again, this bill, which is voted in favour of it, will vote in favour of the rise of corruption in Ukraine. Vote for Health, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u55	Yes, Pavlovski, you have one minute. Because your colleague took two minutes. One minute. It's in the Rules. If not. You're the one who's watching. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u56	This is, first of all, a gross violation of the Rules. And secondly, I want to say that we are witnessing, not the reformation, but the propaganda. And it was necessary, to be honest, to call this law, not about the public service, but about the government's cause. Because the public service in its essence is being destroyed, and loyal officials are needed, personally loyal to one person, even unpartisan. So they declare the principle as a good thing of department. On the other hand, there is a need for increased political responsibility. If we have now, as previously said, a guiding and leading force in our society, this is a Party of Regions, let it be responsible for everything. And so they took over all the positions, and came out of one famous region. So let's keep the partying and the politicization. Because everyone needs to know who's responsible for everything in the state for the fact that there's no heat on the road, for the price rise. Janukovic and his Party of Regions are personally responsible for all of this. And you don't have to sneak up on words, reforms like a fetish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u57	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u58	And you don't have to hide from reforms when the authoritarian and repressive regime is actually continuing. And with these reforms, we make a good mine before the West and all the rest of the world. By no means can this law be supported from the usurpation of power and beyond.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I remind you once again that when we started discussing the issue, I stressed that we would complete the consideration of this issue and announce a recess. So there will be a break soon. Please don't worry, Alexander Volodymyrovich, the closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u60	Dear National Deputies! The discussion in the session room showed how different the positions are, which are assessed by the President’s project and, in most cases, related to a particular motive that seems to be the most important. The main purpose of this bill is to get us back to normalization, to build a quality new government service, where not a large number of government officials in the country will make better opportunities for government management, and where professional, responsible people will work. Of course, I said in the report that there are positions that are not key, so right now, even for the second reading, right now, on the first reading from here, you can remove the position that relates to the limitation of political party membership, you can now remove it from here. Similarly, it is possible to delete part 2 of part 2 of the second article, which deals with assistant consultants. The issue of retirement age, the issue of pension reform, you're asking the right question, it's clear that this should be the only context. Now we've had a much bigger problem with government officials wanting to work longer than defined by retirement age, and if anyone doubts that, make a request to the Head of Service, it will answer the huge number of requests that are being considered every day, let me continue to be in the service, so that's the right to do so. We can also absolutely without losing to the substance of this draft law the retirement age in the draft law does not decide. I ask you to support the general conceptual direction of the draft law, which should provide a qualitatively new level of government service in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u61	Thank you. From the committee, no? Dear colleagues! The discussion is over, allow me a few words after the discussion. I think that the right and those who said that the law has the right to life, as well as the right ones who made critical remarks about the bill. What needs to be regulated by such an important field of our social and political life as civil servants is that I think no one is doubtful about it, and the more clearly we write these rules, the better it will be for our society and for those who want not to be in business, but to work in public service. I think we need to look together for compromises to make this clear. Next. As a result of the discussions, as a result of the presentations, the position - finding process, please note the following. The rapporteur, after consulting the subject of the legislative initiative, takes note of our comments, agrees, and gives the subject the legislative initiative to agree on three of the most fundamental issues. First, what is involved in politics and deportation, namely, the question that government officials cannot be party members and the bill is being withdrawn, remains about the partying or non-partisan nature of the categories of people defined in a separate law on citizens’ unification. As you may recall, this applies only to the people in the Pagans and the Constitution. Secondly, as far as the subject that directly affects every national MP and those who work with them in the patronage service is concerned, four consulting assistants who today have the status of civil servant. These provisions are taken away from the bill. And third, which was particularly emphasized by the faction of Communists about retirement age. Indeed, it would be more logical to settle these problems, not in the State Service Act, but in a law that deals directly with pension insurance and nothing to put civil servants into a separate law, but we are talking about the need for as few pension insurance laws as possible. So, given these positions, I'd like to ask, they're accounted for in fact, I'd like to ask. Please wait, Yuri Anatolovich. Yuri Anatolyovich, don't beat me up, you won't get it, you won't get it. Next. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask and I'd like to draw the attention of a professional committee, and they've talked about this in preparation for the first reading, and you've talked about this in the presentations, and this is what the scientific and expert head office says, so that when we're working on the second reading, we'll focus on these problems. One of them is the problem of wage provision. Not to be afraid of what public officials fear, which they say they can cut their wages and only return from 2013. It's not there, but it'll have to be written out more clearly. What is involved in the protective service. I would like to point out that this is the same position that needs to be written for the Supreme Council, because there are no patron services in the ministries, and there are none in the leadership of the Supreme Council. I mean, I think we can fix this. And the other nuances that we talked about. That's why, dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on State Service (registration number 8306) by deleting the provisions on politicization, on assistant national deputies and on retirement age. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] The articles will be specific. Take down the vote. Once again, we accept in the first reading the deletion of positions and those articles that apply to the three main directions that I have sounded. And in preparation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u62	What about the National Deputies? This is not the case with the National Deputies. I repeat. By removing these three provisions, and in furthering the second reading, the identity committee in all the articles will take this into account so that they are not present. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. [[12:16:10]] For 263 Thank you, the law has been passed. Yuri Anatolyovich, your hand, that's not the hand. Yes, there's a break of 12 hours 46 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u63	We're considering, Your Honor, the question of the dismissal of judges. The rapporteur is Head of the High Council of Justice, Koleshnenko Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u64	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! A draft of Decree No. 8344 on the release of Judge Vassina Lilia Anatoliyovna from office as Judge of the Kirov District Court is being introduced. We've just received a telegram saying that the judge is in the counseling room. You must have a telegram like that, Adam Ivanovich. So I would like you to identify yourself with the possibility of hearing this question without the appearance of a judge. Well, I think that since the judge is in the counseling room and there's a proper assignment, he's given the head of the court right now to find out if she's actually in the counseling room, but today, to correct it, we don't have that kind of information. The telegram just came in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u65	Yes. So the honourable colleagues, by decree 8344, on dismissal from the position of Judge Vasina's office is an offer to move to the next plenary week. Here's the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u66	Draft Decree No. 8359 on the release of judges. According to article 126, part five, paragraph 3, 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to release judges: the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Plasa Mikola Grigorovitch, in connection with the application for resignation; The Marganite City Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Panasenko Olen Pavlovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Kyiv District Court of Donetsk Vyrodova Jurija Tarasovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Lenin district court of Mikolayeva, Bogotyrczuk Galin Antonovna, is unable to exercise its health authority. There are appropriate documents to support her health. The Sadgir District Court of Chernovici Plavan Vladimir Alexandrovitch – in connection with the application for resignation. In all the judges, their real will is revealed. There is no adverse influence or coercion in their decision to release. The High Council of Justice is proposing to support our proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u67	Yes, dear fellows! No questions? Then I put to the vote the Order 8353 on the release of judges. Please be supportive. [[12:51:53]] For 259. Thank you. Please sit down. And we're looking at a draft decree granting arrest and arrest to Judge Melitopol of the District Court of Zaporozhye district of Kucherenka. [[Registration number 8257]] Yeah, who's gonna report this? Deputy Attorney General, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u68	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! On August 12, 2004, the Prosecutor’s Office of the Zaporozhye Region filed a criminal case against the judge of the Melitopol District Court of Justice, Kucherenko Natalija Volodymyrovny, under article 2, part 2, of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The authorities of the pretrial investigation of Kucherenko Natalia Volodymyrna are charged with assisting the secretary of the court in the amount of $1,000 in cash for assigning the son of the briber to a nonwilling punishment. The commission of a serious crime by Kucherenko is confirmed by the Lewandowski personal search protocol, according to which she has discovered and removed the subject of a bribe — money. As well as the materials of the search and search, audio, video recording of the fact that the bribe was received, the findings of the expert opinion and the records of the talks of Kucherenko and Shesterna, and other evidence in their population. Since Kucherenko did not appear more than 30 times over the years 2006-2010 without valid reasons for the investigative calls, which is a vicious escape from the investigation, I ask that you support the submission and consent to the detention and detention of the judge of the Melitopol State Court of Zaporezki district of Kucherenko Natalija Volodymyrovna. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u69	Yes, please, questions. Sign up. Yes, please, three minutes, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u70	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u71	Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u72	Jaroslav Kenzier, "To Ukraine!".. Mr. Eugene, please tell me this is not the case, but the case is parallel, is it known to the Attorney General's Office, is there any material already in the Henprosecutor's office, that there is a similar application to the Supreme Council for the Supreme Court of Justice of Lviv for Judge Ganic, who was caught in a bribe of 400,000 dollars. It's been about two months and there's nothing to hear about the fate of this sad judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u73	Well, I can tell you that this investigation is being conducted, and once the investigator acknowledges that sufficient evidence has been gathered, such a submission will be directed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u74	Please, Yushchenka, no. Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u75	Yeah. Dear Eugene Mikolaiovich! The question is, you say, in 2004, there was already a crime committed, a crime committed. And what, until now, does she judge a judge who has committed a serious crime or what is going on here? Should we wait 30 times, you say she hasn't shown up, right? And is this a judicial reform of this disgrace of our state, or does it remove it, or does it not? I mean, can we do these things more quickly? In fact, as far as it's possible, five to ten years after the crime, the judge judges others. What moral right does he have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u76	Since there are some warnings about the judge's choice of measure of precaution, and considering that more than 30 times the judge has not come to the investigator, the investigator applies for a precautionary measure of detention and detention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u77	Please, cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Eugene, you spoke of the fact that the main evidence of this judge's crime with regard to getting bribes is the determination of this event after appropriate video surveillance. I'm guessing that this video surveillance was done in the judge's office. If you don't, just make it right, please. And if it was carried out in the clerk’s office, such procedural actions would require sanctions for them to be carried out. So for the transcript, please confirm that such a sanction really is contained in the material of the case. Otherwise, the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not have the right to agree then, to give its consent more loyally to bring this judge to justice because such evidence will be unacceptable in a court of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u79	Such measures of an operational nature, which are legalized within the framework of a criminal case, have been authorised by the relevant court office.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u80	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Only, dear colleagues, I want to say that I announced 8257 and reported 8258. It's the same name, and that's whether the husband and wife, maybe the relatives, well, we're looking at 8258 -- Kucherenko Natalia Volodymyrna. Please, Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council Committee on Justice considered at its meeting on 16 March the submission by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, supported and introduced by the Head of the Supreme Court of Justice of the decision to allow the detention and arrest of the judge of the Melitopol Regional Court of Zaporozhye district of Kucherenko Natalija Volodymyrovna. [[Taken under guard]] I would like to remind you that the committee has considered submitting to the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Considering the legality or illegality of a criminal case cannot be considered by the committee itself, it is solely the competence of the judicial and law enforcement authorities. Having considered the submission, the committee concluded, within its powers, that the submission by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, supported and introduced by the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, of an order for detention and arrest of the judge of the Melitopol District Court of Zaporozhye district of Kucherenko Natalija Volodymyrovna, met the requirements of article 220, part 1, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and could be. [[Taken under guard]] I'd like to support you. You have a draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u82	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. I just have a question. Why did the committee propose that the Henprocurator should report and not report to the head of the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u83	We have Adam Ivanovich under the Rules. The case is that the matter has been under consideration for several years, and the Procurator's Office of Zaporozhye, the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office has addressed the Attorney-General's Office. The Attorney-General's Office has appealed to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court has simply supported the submission of the Attorney-General's Office. Everything about Kucherenko Natalia Vladimirovna and Kucherenko Viktor Vasilevich is the Attorney-General's Office because they were initiators. And as for the third, I mean Vasily Maksimovich Przej, there's a court there. We will speak to the Chief of the Supreme Court or his deputy shortly thereafter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u84	Yes, you're half right, because the Rules stipulate that the Supreme Court is represented by the Supreme Court as regards the submission to the People's Deputies by the Attorney-General. And here, even though it's the Attorney General's Office, we need a Supreme Court, except for the Attorney General's Office. I mean, he can support it, but the reporters still needed to identify the Supreme Court as well as the other issue. That's why we're here, sorry, a little bit. What questions will be asked to Sergey Vasilovich? Sign up. Carpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u85	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u86	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u87	Mr. Sergei, I'm the same question I asked Mr. Eugene. I'd like you, as chairman of the committee, to confirm this information that was recorded in the transcript and bugged here in the session room. In particular, about the fact that the committee had its presence, the corresponding permit document that you saw, you held it physically in your hands that it was given the right permission to carry out the relevant procedural action, namely, video surveillance of the relevant judge in his service coma. Offices when he commits a crime. Please confirm this information for the stenogram.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u88	Once again, I would like to point out that, in considering the legality or illegality of a criminal case itself, the committee cannot, it is solely the competence of the judicial and law enforcement authorities. We listened to the information of the Prosecutor General's Office, the Chief of Investigation of the Attorney-General's Office, and listened to the information of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Court and from their words, as stated in my statement, we have made the following decision: not to trust the two, the Attorney-General's Office and the Supreme Court, I do not think so. It's not our authority to prove it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u89	Please, you have one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u90	Dear Mr. Sergio, dear colleagues! There is just enough reason not to trust the Attorney General's office in this case. Because I wanted to remind all of us that there was a case like this, not about the specific composition of the management of this Attorney General's Office, but without documentary confirmation, the basic procedural document, namely the permission to conduct video surveillance in the clerk's office, this evidence, which I understand is the main evidence, must then be declared inadmissible in court. And in that case, the Attorney General will have no reason to bring this judge to justice. I would like to remind you that this was the case when the Office of the Attorney General requested such consent from the Supreme Council, without having the relevant procedural document, and then the court recognized the judge. The video said he was getting bribes, but there was no permission to do that video.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u91	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u92	The judge was then found innocent. So this is a very important moment, and I would ask that we finally find out.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we are today considering issues not related to the charge, to the specific charge, we are considering matters of custody and arrest. That is, we are considering the issues that have been addressed only in accordance with the Rules, article 220 of the Rules. The Office of the Attorney-General can take advantage of what we decide today, the Hall will decide whether or not to take advantage of it. Today there is information that there are four children in this family who are in this family. It's a little different here. But you understand the situation. For over a year and a half, we have been considering this issue. He's on the committee. On one occasion, we considered that they could not appear because of the disease. On another occasion, we considered that they had no opportunity because the trial was under way. Third time and so forth. We've looked at it nine times. And let us address this issue in the Hall today. Or we'll back it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u94	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u95	Or we don't support him. It is not possible for a year and a half to have these documents in Parliament. Here's the letter -- you decide here in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Sergey Vasilovich is right. He's not investigating. He will report to the committee that they have considered the application of the Attorney General's Office. And they're not making decisions, we're making decisions. Either we give our consent or we don't give our consent. We should listen to the people on whom the matter is being considered. But here's a telegram: "Dear MPs, due to the road transport opportunity, we will not be able to appear at the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the proper time. Please refuse to report to the Attorney General. With respect, Kucherenko Natalia Volodymyrovna, Kucherenko Viktor Vasilovich." Who wants to take it. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, perhaps we can settle for a minute. That's enough? Is there no objection? Then please, Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u97	Dear friends, I'm going back to the same question. This is Judge Kucherenko Natalya, seven years after she has been charged with a crime and cannot arrive. Second question. Kucherenko committed a crime in 2001. It's been 10 years. He's been there as a fraud, and he's been on trial for 10 years. On behalf of the State, sentence and decision shall be handed down, and so on. Today he also gives a telegram – he can't come. It is not for me to take a decision now, for what we give to create or investigative, interim investigative commission, or for the High Council of Justice to seriously address these issues, such as taking it. Why, in general, do we suffer so much disgrace in the State. Criminals are mocking us, and we can't solve the question for ten years because they don't want to communicate with the investigation, they don't want to come to the Supreme Council, it's really a mockery of Parliament, of the investigation, why is that? Unless it's judicial reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u98	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u99	These issues have not been taken into consideration, so let us urgently request the relevant committee to make changes so that this will no longer be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u100	Stojko Ivan "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense",
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u101	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Please pass the word to Mr. Roman Zvaric, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u102	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! I have no doubt that if this event is fixed on video, on video that this judge got bribed, that he was a briber and he had to be brought to criminal responsibility. However, I'm sorry, but I have every reason to say that I don't have all these reasons to believe that our law enforcement agencies are following all procedural standards to obtain such evidence. I would like to remind you that illegally obtained evidence cannot be accepted as such in a court of law. And in that case, if this is the only evidence to prove the person's guilt, it is such a person, the guilt of his trial will not be finished, it will be recognized as this, by the way, once upon a time. I was the only deputy to vote against such a decision and it turned out that I was right when I was a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u104	Krilenko's still giving you a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u105	So in order not to repeat a mistake like that a few years ago, I suggest that we stick to the decision to obtain the relevant procedural document from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, which would have testified, I would have documented that the court had granted permission to carry out the relevant procedural action that would have resulted in this proof.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u106	It's almost a story with Melnick, isn't it? Gordienko's handing over Baburin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out today that we will make a decision that will address not only the fate of Victor and Natalia Kucherenko, but first of all that Sergey Vasilevich has said, four minors, one of whom is disabled from childhood. And here we are making a decision with you, agreeing to arrest and then asking what will happen to these children. Therefore, in making a decision, we are probably responsible to some extent for the fate of these four people. Therefore, I would like to say that we do not commit sin or support this great festival, although I have no doubt that the decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office is correct. I therefore appeal to my colleagues to pity the children.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u108	Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, the fact that this story lasts for 10 years shows that there is doubt as to the objectivity of the process. Here I was approached by the people of Melitopol and the judges of this city, who viewed this story slightly in a different light. They said they had four kids, and I want to make sure they got a fifth, so if we put her in a cage, I don't know who's gonna be any easier than that. And the fact that this issue has not been addressed for 10 years also speaks of the professionalism of those who have done so. That's why I'm asking you not to support this ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u110	Please, Eugene Mikolaiovich Blazhivsky. Press the button there, Eugene Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u111	What I'm saying is that it's not just one piece of evidence that Mr. Zvaric's national deputy is talking about, but it's a bunch of evidence that's gathered in the case. We don't give them a full analysis of this evidence today, but the money that was given as bribes was removed there, and all those $10 bills were removed immediately after the bribe.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u112	Yes, thank you. The conversation is over. I'm putting to the vote an order to order the detention and arrest of Judge Melitopolski of the District Court of Zaporozhye district of Kucherenko Natalia Volodymyrna. [[Registration number 8258]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:14:09]] For-13. The decision is not supported. We're looking at a draft decree granting arrest and arrest to the judge of the Melitopol District Court of Zaporozhye district of Kucherenk Viktor Vasilovich. [[Taken under guard]] [[Registration number 8257]] Please, Eugene Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u113	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! On June 23, 2004, the Prosecutor’s Office of the Zaporozhye Region filed a criminal case against the judge of the Melitopol District Court of Justice, Kucherenk Viktor Vasilovich, for part two of article 364 and part four of article 190 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The authorities of the Kucherenko pretrial investigation are charged that during 2001, in order to secure the money of the offenders, after considering administrative offences, he called the latter for the known excess fines provided for in article 130 of the Code on Administrative Offences, which they were to pass on to him personally. Further illegally receiving this money, Kucherenko, in his decrees, indicated the minimum amount of the fine provided for in the article of the Code, and the difference of the fees was appropriated. The court’s secretary, who did not know about Kucherenko’s criminal acts, paid the amounts determined in the decrees for his direction. In general, Kucherenko has thus acquired 56 citizens for more than 13,000 dollars. The trial collected sufficient evidence to support Kucherenk’s guilt in criminal offences. Since Kucherenko did not appear more than 40 times over the period 2004-2010 without valid reasons for the investigative calls, as he has been vehemently evading the investigation, I ask that you support the submission sent to the Supreme Council by the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court for arrest and detention under the watch of the Melitopol Regional Court of Justice, the Kucherenko district of Kucherenko Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u114	Yeah, you got the situation, right? Have a seat, please. Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich. You'd better get out of here. Well, please, cook, the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u115	Mr. Eugene, you'll forgive me for being so obnoxious, but I'd like to believe your words. But, you know, I believe much more in documents, so I'd like you to say that again in the session room. What evidence do you have from the Attorney General's Office, whether it's the attorney general's office's office that is more loyal to committing the crimes you've been called, is the first. And second of all. Or were all the procedural actions carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Criminal Procedure Code for the conduct of such acts again. In particular, if there was a video surveillance or a search or something like that, and if all the procedural documents are available. And in that case, I'd ask you to give them to the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we can look at them. This is not the secret of the investigation. A procedural document, it's not part of the material of the case, it's exactly what I said, it's a procedural document. Without him, I can't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u116	The Honourable National Deputy, Mr. Zvaric, in the information I possess is a list of the evidence that is the basis of the document that is addressed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the testimony of the victims: Grishna, Petrova, Didenko, and only 56 of them, who showed that, at Kucherenko’s request, when dealing with their administrative matters, they handed over the last amount of fines in his office. Then came the receipts for the payment of fines; the testimony of the cashier-cassist who accepted the funds; the employee of the court of Levandovsk, who contributed such amounts of money to the cash register; the conclusions of the written expertise according to which the writings in the receipts were filled by this Secretary of the Law; the receipts for payment of the fine on behalf of the offenders; and administrative matters related to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u117	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u118	Bigger amounts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u119	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! On 16 March, at a meeting of the Justice Committee, the submission of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine was discussed, supported and introduced by the Supreme Court of Ukraine to allow the detention and arrest of the judge of the Melitopol District Court of Zaporzik Region of Kucherenka Viktor Vasilovic. I would like to remind you once again that the committee was considering submitting to the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee cannot deal with the legality or illegality of a criminal case itself; it is solely the competence of the judicial and law enforcement authorities. Having considered the submission, the committee concluded, within its powers, that the submission of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine was supported and submitted by the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the granting of arrest and arrest of the judge of the Melitopol Regional Court of Zaporozhye district of Kucherenka Viktor Vasilovic met the requirements of part one of article 220 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and could be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u121	Yes. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I think the situation is clear? I put to the vote Order 8257 concerning the granting of arrest and arrest to the judge of the Melitopol District Court of Zaporozhye district of Kucherenka Viktor Vasilovich. [[Taken under guard]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:21:36]] For-35 The decision is not taken. We are considering a draft decision to order the arrest of the judge of the Kodim District Court of the Odessa Region of the Foot. [[Taken under guard]] [[Registration number 8259]] Pilepchuk, head of the Supreme Court, reports. Please, Peter Philipovich. On the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u122	Dear National Deputies! This is the judge of the Kodim district court of the Odessa district of Spody Vasil Maksimovic. He appeared today. The case for this judge is in the course of the Court of Appeal of the Vinick district in Judge Silakov. The clue is that he got 12 bribes of 100 to 200 bracelets each in total about 6,000 dollars, and that he abused power, faked official documents and some other crimes that compared to bribery to much less social danger. The point is, the judge of the Winnitz Court can't handle the case. The Witnesses in the Odessa region, although approaching their location up to 15 kilometers [15 km], do not appear in court. Among them are those who seem to have handed over 100 or 200 dollars of bribes to Judge Slut. Blaming this judge, well, that's hard enough. This is due to the constant appearance of Judge Follow in court for consideration of his case. But one witness came forward, and one person who was handing over bribes, I think, transferred bribes to 200 bucks. This is the lawyer who said that Judge Pryth talked him into changing his testimony, blackmailing him, and so on. Moreover, this lawyer referred to the fact that he knew that two other witnesses were also meeting with the Footman and that he was influencing them to change their testimony. The head of the Supreme Court, having received Silakov's submission to the Supreme Council for his consent to the detention and arrest of Judge Slater, noted in his statement that he could not do otherwise, because there is a reasonable suspicion that the judge is trying to influence the witnesses. But given this small array of evidence bases and the size of those crimes, of course the fate of this judge should be determined by the sessional hall. If you have any questions, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u123	Thank you. Yes. I can't see my hands anymore. Please, School Andrew, ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u124	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sir. ‘ I realize that crime can't be limited by any amount. Well, you can imagine a judge. Remind me how much you pay in court. A little more than 5,000 bucks a month, isn't it? So he can take 100 bracelets. It reminds me of, I don't know, a discussion or some made-up story. It's fantastic for a judge in Ukraine to take such a minimum bribe -- 200 bracelets! It's a laugh, I think, in the courtroom, and so do you. So for me, this thing looks like a minimum, artificial thing. According to the rumors we hear from our voters, these sums, to these two hundred, have to be added as a minimum of four zeros, these amounts are demanded or paid. And that's why it looks artificial to me, and I'm sure the Supreme Council shouldn't have supported this submission, because it looks stupid, honest, and funny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u125	Thank you for asking. From the beginning, I said that the whole problem was that the court couldn't handle the case. And the case went to trial accusing these 100 or 200 bribe bracelets. And the court is obliged to consider it and say it's guilty or not guilty. And the court will come to that conclusion. Today, however, the question of whether it was proper in a procedural sense was being handled by Follower, who appeared before the court, but it was as if he were inciting witnesses to give false testimony.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u126	Thank you, thank you, Peter Philipovich, sit down. Dear colleagues! Have a seat. I repeat, I went to the session room: who but a colleague of the school wanted to ask questions -- there were no such questions. Have a seat, please. Ask Kiwalov a question. But you listen to the presiding officer, and you do not act according to your will, and then you accuse someone. You listen, please! Listen to what they're talking about. There were no wanters, then they showed up -- well, it can't be that way. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u127	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council Committee on Justice considered at its meeting on 16 March the submission to the Court of Appeal of the Vinické Region of Silakov by Sergio Mikolaiovich, supported and submitted by the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, of an order for the arrest of the judge of the Kodim District Court of Odessa district of Spod Vasil Maximovic. I would like to remind you that the committee has considered submitting to the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When considering the legality or non-legality of a criminal case, the committee cannot do so, it is solely the jurisdiction of the judicial and law enforcement authorities. Having considered the submission, the committee concluded, within its powers, that the submission to the Court of Appeal of the Vinicke Region, supported and submitted by the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the approval of arrest, the taking in custody of the judge of the Kodim District Court of Odessa, Follower Vasil Maximovic, meets the requirements of part three of article 218, part one of article 220 of the Supreme Council Rules, and may be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u128	Thank you. Sign up for questions. Please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u129	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Vladimir Moisik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u130	Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u131	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!" Sergey Vasilovich, I want to help Roman Zvaric. As in this case, there were videos of money being removed from the marriage. How come there's one fact there's a fixed transfer of 100 dollars, 200 dollars or nothing?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u132	No video was submitted to the committee. We considered the presentation of the judge and supported the head of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court and the judge themselves have considered and presented to us only the materials that we have and that we have talked about today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u133	The prokupchuk Yury.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u134	Please give the floor to colleague Sas Sergio Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u135	Sasha's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear reporter! I see. That after a so - called judicial reform, unfortunately, the Supreme Council function is statistical. Press all the buttons on what is given. What's the point? What the hell. On December 28, 2008, a criminal charge was brought against a bribe. 2008 Where have we been so far? It's 2011 now. Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u137	In the case of Follower Vasili Maksimović, documents were received at the end of last year. We have considered this matter at a meeting of the Committee and should pay tribute to the fact that it is Vassili Maksimović who has attended all the meetings of the Committee. He was present and told that he did not interfere with the investigation; that it was a subjective assessment of the judge of the Court of Appeal; that he was coming and testifying at all meetings. But the judge, it's very rare when a judge who's in charge of this case insists, considers, returns, he insists and makes such a submission to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has handed over to us. We have an obligation to consider it at our meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] But that's not a question for us. These are matters before the Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u138	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u139	My word? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u140	Questions. Not a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u141	No, I'd like to do the same. You're also head of the committee working in the judiciary. You know, when you're on the committee, 200 bucks is bribes from a lawyer. Well, it's just getting out of the session room. That salary. We talked, he'd give us 200 bucks, they'd shut down the subject if it was a financial claim. It's just a desire to press the judge. That's how I feel. I didn't understand, but outside, that's the impression. Because when you make funny accusations or you make fun of them. Well, let's think of a judge who's been "pulling" there a little bit more than 200 bucks. Really? Let's compare it here. Well, it's just a ridiculous position that puts the whole Supreme Council in a ridiculous position. Well, it was just on the committee to say no and that's all, Mr. Kiwalov. I think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! You know, list all the articles on which to repeat what the performer did today. The Acting President of the Supreme Court may not have made sense. Together, if you want to know, the total amount there is, 13,000 there with something bracelet, 13,000 there with something. I wish you that at the Committee meeting, well, a decision had been taken, and everyone and representatives spoke. I mean have spoken and supported the representation of the judges of the Court of Appeal in the Vinnitsk region and the representatives of your political force, and the representatives of the Communist Party, and the regions, because there is a composition. And we couldn't have done otherwise because the committee was legal. If there's a component of the crime, we have to evaluate it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u143	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, Follow Vasil Maximovich is present at the meeting of the Supreme Council. Please, if you have something to say, we're listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome everyone to the day of the Annunciation, and I wish you God in your heart when making your decision. Now on with the case. In 2008, in a February month, I was charged with a criminal offense against the U.S.S.S.A., according to citizens who would seem to have bribed me. What led to this? Before that, I refused to allow the former head of the administration to make decisions that would please him on four matters. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I'll tell you one more thing, I don't have a penny of money, I don't have a bribe. Besides, three weeks after ICTV showed my family that there was money, it was a clean installation, it was to get me out again. For three years this matter is under consideration. Why did this happen? Because last year, in August, the judge said to me, "You either admit guilt or we give you parole or we arrest you." That's what it went for. During August months, this smile, the pressure, was lifted. In the court, in the previous investigation, and in the court, in the case of witnesses, he was great to me. So far, I've been bringing witnesses to Winnitz while things were going well. I was banned from taking witnesses, no witnesses. I'm totally into this. I asked them myself, whom I met on the road, that you come, good people, because the court cannot end unless there are witnesses. On two occasions, the Witnesses, three times the police, were taken into custody. During that period, there were two other witnesses, and that was yesterday. That would have been considered, but yesterday the prosecutor simply got ill in court and was interrupted. There were only two witnesses delivered by the police yesterday. I'm asking you, people's deputies, I'm telling you the truth. And not 13,000, as Sergius Vasilovich said, but 6 thousand have spoken for me, in general. Yes, Sergey Vasilovich, six thousand have changed everything. And there's no evidence other than witnesses. And I'm asking you not to apply to me so severely. Give me a chance to protect myself in the future. Moreover, the judicial investigation is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u145	Yes, thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Discussion? Yeah, except for the cook, who else wants to? You don't? Here you go. Yeah, one minute at a time. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, our constituents! I will not vote in favour of this order. Well, first of all, really, find some common language, which is the sum of either 13,000 or six. And here we have colleagues talking, and we know a little bit of the stakes that are in court, we know from our voters, it's a ridiculous total. That's more than that, really. The man is not running away, absolutely nothing, let the court handle it and put a dot. I will not take sin upon myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u147	Samuel Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u148	Thank you for your word. I mean, today is such a big holiday, and today we are considering such worthless questions. Shameful of those who prepared for those who reported it, an honest word. We need to take these questions more seriously. What is the whole point of this question? This is the head of the administration, and we know that this practice requires that three or more criminal cases be closed there. I mean, I'm curious, for example, that you can't answer the question right now, but I'm curious, but where is this head of administration now? Where is he now, the one calling for the closure of criminal cases? Is he under investigation now or not? Or he'll take it before the law. Will his responsibility be before the law or not? We need to take a closer look at these issues, both in the legal and moral sense, at those in power today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u149	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u150	Vladimir Karpuk. I'm more used to trusting a man of the year in the law of 2010, but I'm handing it over to Volodymyr Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u151	Please, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u152	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Your Honor, I want to tell you. I'm sitting here, you can't see me. What the Cossacks said if they didn't eat garlic, it wouldn't smell. But it touches you like a judge. What's going on? So I see that the case was not handled by the judge herself, the judge of the Wynic Court. I mean, there's witnesses, they're changing shows. They are called to account. Why is there an accused judge here who conscientiously goes to interrogation? So I'd tell Mr. Wheeler, the head of the High Council of Justice, to deal with that judge. They got us into an empty job with you, says Andrew School. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u153	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u154	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, in previous years, the heads of administration were unceremoniously interfering with the work of the courts. This has led President Viktor Yanukovic to undertake judicial reform and to protect judges from administrative pressure. Therefore, in this situation, I think we were right when we voted in favour of judicial reform in order to pressure the authorities and politicians and local administrations to reduce judges. That's why I think the man is quite sincere, the point is, he's been corrected as much as possible. He didn't say where, who, and how, but that's understandable. If we say so, a few years ago, it's a very clear view of who it was. That's why I think the vote will show that justice in this room will prevail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u155	Question completed. I put to the vote an order for an arrest, for the taking in of custody of Judge Kodimov of the District Court of the Odessa District of the Foot. Registration number 8259, please identify yourself. [[13:41:19]] For-0 It's a non-adopted decision. Dear colleagues! We're done with the judges, there's a request from two factions of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and "The Yulia Timoshenko Block" to announce. Who will act? Please, Jacenjuk Arseny Petrovich and Kirilenko, one and a half minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u156	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The only thing we can agree with President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine is that he acknowledged the work of the Cabinet of Ministers and of all the authorities and his administration as unsatisfactory. The only thing he didn't do, he had to announce the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, that would be the courageous step of the head of state. The other one. Surprisingly and anxiously, today the speech of the head of state, no specifics as to how the country should develop. The head of state should have presented: first, a plan to stabilise prices and tariffs in Ukraine. The second is a plan to overcome unemployment. The third is the plan of war against corruption. The fourth is Ukraine's introduction plan, and more specifically Ukraine's integration into Eurostructures, the signing of Association Agreements and visa-free regime. Instead, the President was very incomprehensible in saying that Ukrainian land will soon be sold and we expect a second moment of privatization in the mid-1990s. I think the head of state needs to seriously consider that he has the full responsibility for everything that goes on in the country and will be asked only from him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u157	Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, for the President's letter, the faction is authorized to declare the following. According to the arguments on European choice, democratic values, the protection of national interests, the need to speed up reforms, the fight against corruption, the refrena, the question is whether we will make the declaration, given the level, professionalism and the desire to do it by a huge state machine. Whether the power is able to do so, the President himself replied. Last year’s borders were only a third. Economic reform has proved irresistible to the executive, for there has been no structural change and no, tax reform has begun as a scandal, pension and labour are threatened by an explosion, land chaos, destabilization as a result of shocking prices, tariffs, and services. The stability of the country you are so proud of is becoming a myth. Without prejudice to social protection, almost all types of populations, not just vulnerable social explosions, are inevitable. The governing coalition needs to land, not the demands of narrow-minded, corporate or oligarchic people should be in this room, and first of all, the changes to the human protection budget, otherwise disaster and inevitable. And it is the result that people will remind you of who is on the wagon today, remember this, for history has the ability to repeat itself, especially in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u159	Let us consider your applause to be the approval that if the political forces, as stated here in their declaration, become presidents, they will say what they promised today in the rostrum. Again, Sergey Volodymyrovich, I'm making a note of what you're shouting at the session room, and you can't do that under the Rules. You can't. You can't. I ask you, fellow Members, we have one problem that affects the interests of millions and millions. Those of you who have cars know what it is. The Cabinet of Ministers suggests that we have some influence on the price policy of oil products. And so he suggests that we consider two bills. I propose to include Bill No. 8354, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. On this point, please vote. Vote, my friend. [[13:46:43]] For 249 The factions? It'll be more important now. And 8355 is the draft Act amending sub-paragraph 215. 3.4, para. 215. Article 3 of article 215 of the Ukrainian Tax Code with a view to reducing taxes. [[concerning petroleum products]] In order to reduce excise duty from 182 euros to 132 euros, i.e. by 50 euros, which should affect the price of gasoline. Please vote on including it in the agenda. [[13:47:38]] For 267 Now for the factions, please. Region Party – 177, Fatherland – 12, People's Self-Defense – 9, Communists – 25, Reforms – 18, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 6. Taking into account the urgency of the problem, I would like to ask the profile committees on a break to consider how we can make a decision at the evening meeting. We listen to questions related to out - of - turn elections. Please, Upper Sergey Petrovich. We'll call 'cause there's a lot of 'em.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u160	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 30 March 2011, discussed the concerns of individual local councils regarding the appointment of out-of-office rural and village heads to 8 local self-government bodies, in particular 6 village heads and 2 village heads in connection with the timely termination of their powers under article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. In 6 cases and in connection with death - 2 cases, the mandate of the term is terminated at its own request. The meeting also considered the conclusions of the working group of the Committee on the Study of the Situation at the Pleseck Rural Council of the Basilk district of Kiev. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Laws on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, and the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village heads, the Committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the elections for individual rural and rural heads, as well as the deputies of the Plesec Rural Council and the Pleseck Rural Head be held on Sunday, June 19, 2011. The relevant draft regulations were handed out to the session halls and we ask for your support. In addition, on April 6, 2011, the Supreme Council Committee on State Building reviewed the draft Ordinance on the appointment of alternate members of the Montenegrin City Council and the Chernivetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u161	We're not voting yet, we're still listening to the report. Go ahead, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u162	I've got everything. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u163	So, yes, we're going to vote on the draft regulations that are, because the committee has considered them. Whoever's shooting is his problem. If he shoots, let him make a statement that he's taking, we'll take it off the record. I don't see any other way, I'm afraid. 8331 — on the appointment of the Nosachian Rural Head in turn — is the Smilan district of the Cherkas region, on June 19. Please vote. [[13:51:21]] For 288 Copy that. 8331-1 is the consecutive election of the Kowali Rural Head (Nemiriv district of Vinnitsky district) and the same date. Please vote. [[The voice from the hall. Vote.]] [[13:51:46]] For 283 8331-2 is the successive election of the Kozlovščina Rural Head (Kotelev Region of Poltava Region) on June 19th. Please vote. [[13:52:15.]] For 283 Decision taken. 8331-3 – Vivnjan village head (Strian region of Lviv region) June 19th. Please vote. [[13:52:42]] For 287 A decision has been made. Decree 8331-4 is the Benevolent Rural Head and the same date. [[The Arbusinian Region of Mikolai region]] Please vote. [[13:53:08]] For 288 Not to repeat the date, it's all June 19th, so I'll save it. 8331-5 - Starosil village head, Rokitniv district of the Plain region. Please vote. [[13:53:40]] For 280 Thank you. 8336-3 is the village head of the Zaporozhye Village Council. Please vote. [[13:54:11]] For-286 Not supported. I'm sorry, it's a decision. 8331-7 – Dmitry village head (Bachmatic district of Chernigiv region). Please vote. [[13:54:38]] For 287 Yes, 8338-8 is the consecutive election of the deputies of the Pleseck Rural Council and the Pleseck Rural Head. [[Vassilkovsky District of Kyiv]] Please vote. [[13:55:11]] For 284 Copy that. Order 8342 — the appointment of alternate members of the Montenegrin City Council and the Cherniewec City Head. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:55:37]] For-56 8337 are in addition to the election of the deputies of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head. [[13:56:03]] For-55 I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Let us now consider the questions of second reading. Draft Law on the provision of commercial accounting for natural gas. [[Registration number 7024]] Deputy Head of Committee Romanyuk Mikopovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u164	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the bill, registration number 7024, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and prepared by the Committee for second reading. The bill is intended to introduce commercial natural gas accounting for all consumer categories for the purpose of controlling and using the resources of imported natural gas and natural gas for its own production. The Supreme Council passed the bill on October 19, 2010. It has to be noted that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has supported this legislative initiative as a whole. It was noted, however, that the solution to the provision of natural gas to the population should be implemented through the development, approval and implementation of an appropriate target programme, in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on State Targeted Programmes. Thus, according to the head of management, it is appropriate to establish the ratio of the financing of the work provided by the natural gas consumption of the population at the expense of the natural gas distribution entities in the respective territory and the state budget. Attention should be paid to the specificities of purchasing goods and services at the expense of the State budget. In preparing the bill for the second reading, the committee reviewed the amendments that came from the national deputies. At its meeting on December 15, 2010, a comparative table was considered for the text adopted in the first reading, with 66 amendments, of which 24 were rejected. The amendments were worked together with Minpalevenergo, NCRE and NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine". Before we go to the amendments, we need to mention the observation of the Chief Legal Authority. In its conclusion of 28.12.2010, the Legal Authority noted that the bill could be adopted in a second reading, taking into account the comments noted. Therefore, it was necessary to work on a committee of legal review and to include these amendments in a comparative table. The committee had worked out comments by the legal authorities. In view of the above, the Committee invites the Ukrainian National Deputies to agree with the text of the bill on the provision of commercial natural gas accounting, as set out in the right column of the table and the addition, in accordance with the legal authorities' observations, and to accept it in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u165	Thank you. Let's move on to the amendments. Okay, 5th Amendment, Jojik. Are you insisting? Oh, no? Please, the microphone. Please, Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u166	I don't insist on the fifth, I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u167	Carmazine 8th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u168	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like the officials to hear us and I'm very sorry that today the President said nothing about this, that Ukrainians should pay for what they own for natural gas, for the prices that the Russians offer us. It's a nuisance, we don't have to pay for our own. Waiting for the people to take this away is not good. Now for a specific amendment. Article 1, where the definition of terms is, I propose to add a new sub-item to the following content: "Absences of farming, for the purposes of this law, are subjects of farming, which make provision of natural gas at a regulated tariff and or distribution rate for the respective territories. I stress that natural gas is supplied at regulated tariffs. Because those prices that are now rising are being set.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u169	Please, the amendment shall be voted on. [[14:01:00]] For the five of us. Not counted. Jojik, 9th. Don't insist. Bogdan, 12th. I can't see. 13th, Jojik. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u170	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. This article sets a time limit for setting up commercial counters for the calculation of gas. And my proposal is to set a short deadline for the introduction of these counters, because the text is proposed in 2016. That means about five more years, essentially, this problem is going to get out of hand. And the solution is not just in the technical plane. In fact, the main thing is to avoid accounting for the national gas that consumes the population. Real consumption by expert estimates is about 13 billion cubes, and Naftogaz is trying to convince us that the population consumes 18 billion cubes. In this case, considering that gas prices for the population are significantly lower than those for industrial enterprises, there is a very large difference, and so does it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u171	We're voting on the 13th amendment. [[2:02:44]] For -8 Not supported. Jojik, 15th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u172	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. The point of this proposal is also to speed up the introduction of mandatory gas accounting as quickly as possible. And let's say, when we looked at the Tax Code, we suggested that we introduce tax benefits for those citizens who set the counter on their own account, especially since a large number of citizens have already set it up at their own expense. So it's a matter of political will first of all, not technological capabilities. Regrettably, the committee’s conclusion is purely argumentative and technically impossible to establish. However, if Parliament demonstrates political will, it will demonstrate how important commercial accounting is to the real energy economy in our country, it is technically possible to do so. That's why I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u173	It's the 15th amendment. [[14:04:17]] For-12. Not supported. 21st. Bogdan, don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u174	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, please, Adam Ivanovich, look at the 26th position. Article 3 is a source of funding. The first reading stated that the sources are the funds of the operators who supply natural gas at a regulated tariff and its distribution in the respective territory. [[or]] So supply and distribution. Now this amendment proposes to exclude the supply and leave only the distribution. Ladies and gentlemen, that's a little bit off. There's a little bit of gas in this amendment. I think I have the right to insist on confirming this amendment. And I would like to point out that there's obviously something wrong with us. On the first reading, a slightly different goal is set. I'm asking you to submit this amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u175	Yes, please, why did the committee throw out the gas supply? 20th Amendment, Mikolo Prokopovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u176	On the second reading of the 20th, we didn't have an amendment, we didn't see it. We didn't pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u177	The 20th amendment is yours. "The supply of natural gas" you took. They only left "the distribution of natural gas, which is the source of funding for computer equipment." Why did he count the committee to collect the gas supply?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u178	Technically, it was impossible to do so. That's why the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u179	Oh, no. Is it technically not possible to do that? Supply -- what's the technique here? It's clear what's going on, I think. Right. I'm putting the 20th amendment on confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:06:39]] For the Unaccounted for. The first reading is left. 22nd, Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u180	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. The purpose of this amendment is to remove the disagreements that are between the already adopted Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Principles Act and the bill. Thus, the Law on the Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market defines the distribution of activities for gas supply and transport to consumers. This suggests that the same enterprise does not have the right to supply and transport gas. Gas suppliers may be competing to supply gas to consumers, and they may buy it from different suppliers. Therefore, if the consumer has decided to replace the gas supplier, the question arises: Who compensates for the cost of installing the meter. gas supplier. Therefore, the counters, if they are to be installed, are just enterprises that distribute gas and this is what the proposal suggests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u181	The 22nd amendment shall be voted on. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:08:12]] For-7. Not supported. 23rd, Melnik. Don't insist. Carmazine, 24. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u182	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I want you to think about how much we're going to put burdens on that population. They have to pay higher prices in Europe and in the world, and they have to pay both counters and everything else. So it goes away from the first reading, even there was no such thing. Because here it is suggested that we complete this article, think about the cost of the population, that is, the financing should be. I'm going back to you. sources of funding. "the cost of the population in the event of a physical person turning to a host subject who makes a distribution in the relevant territory of the intention to provide the natural gas nodes with an apartment or a private house at their own expense." So if you'll excuse me, if you'll supply me, you'll provide the element of measurement immediately, so that it'll be possible. Just as you do in a taxi, no one in a taxi sits with their counter. Chi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u183	Yuri Anatolyovich, you're right on the one hand, but on the other hand, if a person wants to pay money, why do we forbid it? If he wants to. It says here if he wants to do it. Yes, I'm voting on the 24th amendment. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:10:01]] For the It's left. I mean, there's nothing left, because the first reading didn't have him. 26th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u184	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! It's an extremely important article, it's going to be, it's going to depend on how people will live tomorrow, whether what's written in that smart book that was presented today is called "The Modernization of Ukraine, Our Modern Choice" at the signature of the President. So I'm helping the President and I'm saying that part of the first article 3 has to be put out in a different way: "the financing of jobs, the determination of the means of accounting for the consumption of natural gas by the population and natural persons by entrepreneurs, by legal persons, is made at the expense of the operators who make the provision of natural gas at a regulated tariff and its distribution in the relevant territory." Here's what I'm asking you to vote for. Instead, we say it can. That was my quote. Instead. and the state budget is connected, and the population. At least they have to pay the ones who do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u185	The 26th vote is Carmazine's amendment. [[14:11:35]] For-21 29th Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u186	Yuri Carmazin. It is unfortunate that by rejecting this amendment, you will do everything you can to make people’s prices more expensive. And then we'll say, why do they live worse? Because we take care of Mr. Firthash's wallet again, others who belong to Obelhas and other sources. Article 29, Amendment 29, I propose a part of the first article of the fourth to be edited as follows: "Workers from the establishment of natural gas accounting are natural gas users who have obtained appropriate permits and licences for the execution of works from the establishment of natural gas accounting systems." I write this so that the cases that were in Dnipropetrovsk, in other places, when people were set up who had no right to do it, and then there were some extraordinary events.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u187	Vote 29, amendment. [[14:13:06]] For the 15th. Not supported. The next amendment, 30, also, if we count in one place that we don't rule out gas supply, we're going to rule out gas supply again, we're just going to have a distribution, I'm going to leave it. 30 amendments, I'm putting 30 to the vote for confirmation. [[14:13:52]] For-0 The first reading is left. 31, Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u188	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Once again, the problem is to set up counters, they actually only have those enterprises that make gas distribution, and today it's the same company. But if you read the fourth part of the First Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Principles Act, the second phase of January 1, 2015 begins when all categories of consumers become qualified consumers, i.e. they can be supplied with gas by different companies. So in order not to copy the law, it is proposed to leave in this list only companies that have obtained appropriate permits and licenses to perform the work of establishing means of accounting for natural gas consumption without telling who it will be. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m0.u189	31 votes for, please specify. [[14:15:18]] For-7. We're going to call it a break. More correctly, I'm sorry, I'm calling this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Break till 4:00.
