ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:00:08]] There are 355 National Deputies cards registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, you and I have a number of drafts to consider that were included in the agenda this morning. And on the agenda for today, you've seen: at 16 o'clock, we have to consider the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2011. [[on the stability of the aviation complex]] In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council signed proposals for this bill, the essence of which is the following. This is in line with Article 131: in Appendix No. 2 to the Act, in the appointment of a budget programme under the code of the programme classification of expenditure and the credit of the State Budget, 2601,520 the words "statutory funds" should be replaced by the words "statutory capitals". To complete paragraph 1 of paragraph 2 of the Act with the following words: "In connection with the changes to Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2011", the additional costs provided by this Act under the programme code for the programme classification of expenditure and credit of the State Budget No. 2601 520 are directed solely at meeting the obligations of the Kharkiv State Aviation Company prior to the closed shareholding company "Azerbaijan Hawa Yolari" and at the cost of implementing the relevant contracts." These are the reconciliations in accordance with article 131 of the Law. I'm voting on the proposal to accept these. on taking into account editorial inaccuracies for the final signing of the bill on State. amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. Bill 9228 registration number. Please vote. [[16:03:07]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you. We asked questions about the disagreement. The question is: the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011, registration number 9233. [[concerning the Reserve]] There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Please be supportive. [[16:03:47]] For 213 Offer supported. Reported by Paulenko Vladimir Petrovich, Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade. Prepare Baran. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, he is introducing a draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2011. The bill proposes to increase the expenditure of the general budget by 602.2 thousand dollars under the budget programme of the State Reserve Agency, the management of government reserve management, by increasing the budget's revenue by making appropriate changes to Appendix 1 — “The State Budget for 2011” and Appendix 3 — “The State Budget for 2011” to the State Budget Act. The need for adoption of the bill is based on the need to cover the deficit in the financing of the reserve and to create conditions for the full implementation of its control and management functions in the area of the State budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u3	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Mr. Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich, please give the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u4	A report from the Lukyanov Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u5	The chairman’s assistants have appeared at the meeting. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Baranov, the chairman of the Committee of Baranov, is proposed as a co-narrator for the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. No, let Lukyanov report, but you don't put me down. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u6	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! The Budget Committee at its meeting on 4 October considered the Government's draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2011 as number 9233. The bill proposes to increase the expenditure of the general budget by 602,000 dollars under the budget programme of the State Reserve Management and Management Agency in the area of the State Reserve by increasing the amount of tax on the added value of goods imported into Ukraine. The position of the bill is balanced with regard to State budget indicators, and the sources of additional public budget expenditure are realistic. The Ministry of Finance does not object to the adoption of the bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council generally supports the proposed legislative proposal. It should be noted that the bill does not take into account the amendments to the State Budget Act 2011 introduced by Law 3768 of 22 September and adopted by the Supreme Council on 6 October this year in accordance with Bill 9228. [[on the payment of wages to miners]] [[on the stability of the aviation complex]] Thus, the general indicators of the state budget will need to be clarified accordingly in sub-paragraph 1 of Chapter 1 and the summary lines of Appendix 1 and 2 taking into account the changes described above. As a result of the review, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Act amending the 2011 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, as a result of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. [[9233]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u8	But in general, as a law that takes into account the proposals made in the submission of the budget committee to the Supreme Council. Please support the Committee's decision on budgetary matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u9	Have a seat, please. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Other than Blackwolf, do others insist? Zybenko. Please, Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u10	National Deputy of Ukraine Alexander Cronvolko, National Movement of Ukraine Dear friends, this is such a powerful example of how we increase the volume of the general budget fund, essentially by a reduced procedure. It doesn't matter what amount, it matters the precedent itself. I would now ask the rapporteur a question, namely, to the deputy minister, who, by the way, has already left us. Sit down. Okay. Let him say, what kind of goods did we bring that we couldn't have predicted that we had to bring them? Is this the Greek of China that we were told was not at the expense of the budget, or is it some other commodity? Because that's how to calculate and take the goods to the state reserve, so I figured, actually from abroad, it's just absurd. If there is no money, if they are not supposed to, there is no need for transportation. And if they were so necessary for Ukraine, it was necessary to predict last year and we would have voted in favour. And now we don't know what kind of goods, we don't know why it was done, what the result was. And isn't there a criminal case here at all, because it's possible that the goods weren't needed in Ukraine at all. And we're two for, two against, no questions, nothing, we're trying to talk. So I think we should stop this procedure, and now this bill is being rejected. Then it's normal to look at it on the committee when they saw that both the head and the deputy committee didn't really want to report this law, because they didn't really understand exactly what it was all about. That's how he looked at it on the committee. And after that, by full procedure, discuss it in the Supreme Council and then with a pure heart reject it as one that harms the economy of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u11	Thank you. Yes, please, Cibenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u12	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Ukrainian Company's faction will support changes to the 2011 State Budget in the part that is foreseen. Because we come from the fact that any state has to have some strategic reserves that could ensure the functioning of the state, all its structures and its citizens in case of a natural disaster or some extraordinary situation. But before filling out the country’s State budget, including in this sense, the answer must be given — and will it not continue to happen as has been the case in recent times around the state reserve? Because in recent times, we've had a very frequent break-in of the state reserve: he stole -- he ran away, he stole -- he ran away. You know, the replenishment of the state budget in this part is what brings me to the question of whether a nation would be faster to replenish its reserves or some, if you'll excuse me, "mouses" from this state reserve to steal it. So what I want to say is that, by supporting the thesis on the need to replenish the state reserve and certain funds to the budget in this regard, we, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, want to hear, and what kind of safeguards have been made to ensure that this state budget, once again, this state reserve, is not stolen, and it has not turned out that the Supreme Council is again before it needs to be filled in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u13	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I would just like to pay attention to the following. Let's not look for a black cat where it's not there. It's just about increasing expenditure on management functions: what's missing on phones is not enough for them to do audit work and so on and so forth. So, well, including. I couldn't have a deputy minister talking about buying goods, because this is about completely different things, and everything here is normal. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill on amendments to Ukraine's 2011 State Budget as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Please vote. [[16:13:59]] For 263 Thank you. The law is passed. The question is being considered, there is no procedure, see the Rules. The question is: the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, and there is no motive. [[on the payment of one-time cash assistance for the release of military personnel, members of the military and of the primary warehouse]] [[Registration number 9171, 9171-1]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:14:48]] For 223 Decision taken. Bill number 9171, Peter Simonenko. And get ready for Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, in view of the effectiveness of the pension reform on October 1, 2011, it is proposed that the Law 9171 on amending certain laws of Ukraine should be adopted without delay, correcting a deliberate error that would result in a 50 - percent relief of the monthly financial security, rather than 50 - percent of the monthly financial security for each full calendar year of service. [[on the payment of one-time cash assistance for the release of military personnel, members of the military and of the primary warehouse]] Found by the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, led by Tihypka, by the drafting of the legislation, when after the words "50 per cent of monthly financial security" the words "for every full calendar year of service" reduce, as a minimum, 10 times the amount of cash available to military personnel. Taking into account the fact that the military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces have entered into their first five-year contracts with the state in October-December 2006, the effort in this way, the Jesuit way of disposing them, is already fully in line with the logic of the famous government law 9127 on the elimination of full benefits. So the problem is understood. Numerous petitions to the Communist faction indicate that the military demands that the rule of the previous laws be restored. What I'd like to suggest is, in addition to the text that you have, it's honorable. I would like to suggest to you that the second paragraph of note is that the act of the Act extends to military personnel, members of the military and the chief of staff who have been released from service since October 1, 2011. Why? Because we prepared this project, you see, in September. And if we look at this one in September.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u15	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u16	So if we looked at it in September, we wouldn't have to write it down. But today, as you can see, it's already mid-October. And some started to form for new pension legislation. So I'm asking you to add this rule, which is going to completely solve all of these problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u17	Thank you. Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This is a situation where we do not need to divide ourselves into power and opposition, and we need to correct the mistake quickly. The mistake that was made is, unfortunately, three devices. The government that introduced the Supreme Council and the Presidential Council when he signed. And now, indeed, the officers who get fired instead of 30,000 get one and a half thousand. In all the power structures! And they curse the army and you and me together. So the two bills that were introduced, the authors Simonenko and Kuzmuk, who read, are absolutely identical. The committee decided to base Kuzmuk’s bill. I'll be honest with you. I voted on Simone's bill because it was the first one. But most have decided to recommend the Kuzmuk bill. Anyone who accepts the hall will be right. And I would ask, if there's any agreement, for us to quickly correct the error of the warning that Peter Mikolaiovich made if we would assign the legal department, together with the committees, technical matters to settle and accept it in general today. People thank us for admitting our mistake in time and correcting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u19	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Sign up. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Anatoly Stepanovich is absolutely right, there is no policy here. And here we just have to make a reasonable decision. I think there'll be a majority of votes, almost 300 votes. And here are perfectly identical bills and respected Peter Nikolaevich and former Minister of Defence Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Well, since the committee has already supported Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk's bill, we also propose to support the committee's decision on voting for the bill that is being drafted by Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Although I repeat, I do not diminish the importance of the Bill of Peter Nikolaevich Simonek. In general, you and I will be able to correct that mistake and make a serious decision, beyond any policy that will bring about an element of justice, especially in the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u21	Thank you. Please, Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u22	I'd like to give the floor to my colleague Behiz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u23	Please, General Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u24	I would like to say, my fellow Members, that this is precisely the case where, thanks to Tihypka and the Ministry of Social Policy, it would seem as if they forgot to include this category in pension insurance, today we have separate people's deputies, including the National Deputy Simonenko and Kuzmuk, to rule it out. But I would like to report that in 2011, 2012, 2013, some 80,000 people will be released from the ranks of the Ministry of Defence, the police, and other power structures as a result of administrative reform. So 80,000 military personnel would actually get about a half a thousand exit aids -- that's a disgrace to the state and to today's government, including the famous initiator Tihypak. So I think today we need to support the Simonka Bill 9171 in, as it were, and on the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u25	Thank you. Please, Grivkowski doesn't insist. Matthew Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u26	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Adam Ivanovich, I think this is an excellent example of how we can very well comment on the Rules, but we do not follow the Rules themselves, or the moderators of the session. If you remember how this problem was born, it was born as a result of the fact that we adopted pension legislation at night, when there were no people in this room at all, and we missed the word "every year" as well as the translation of the clock, which says that the Supreme Council is turning into something, I don't know, a clown, not a serious one. And I want to talk to you. You do not promote a violation of the Rules, when at least one member has a second reading remark, you do not have the right to put the law to the vote as a whole under the Rules. What you're doing is not clear. With regard to this bill. I think we should pay back what was allowed when pension legislation was adopted, the word "each year" was omitted, and Simonenko registered his project first. So, obviously, you don't have to hide again for some pophos and priority of the regions, but you have to agree that you have to support the Simonenko project and vote it out in the first reading and in the whole. I think that's what we can do and we'll be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u27	Thank you. If you'd like to go to the meetings more often, I'd have noticed more, and I'd be better at meeting. I've seen you walk. I mean, I mean, I've seen you in every session, so I can see. Dear colleagues, we will now vote, but with the opportunity, I would like to pay attention to the purely ethical moments of our work. Dear colleagues, let's be normal. It's unethical to be plagiarism. I don't call the authors, but that's not what you can do, because not once, unfortunately, we don't have the ability to write one of these laws, the exact same way that the other one rewrites it to light up. So please, we're serious people, I don't think it's beautiful, it's totally not beautiful. So please let me put to the vote a bill under number 9171 amending some of the laws of Ukraine (to pay off one-time cash assistance in the release of military personnel, private personnel in the primary warehouse. Please vote. [[16:24:50]] For-86 The factions, please. Regional Party 5, Fatherland – 2, Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense – 12, Communists – 25, Reforms – 20, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 2. The same law is just another number 9171-1 I'm voting on. Please be supportive. [[16:25:34]] For 277 Dear colleagues, there was an offer, if we support it, to take into account the amendment, the proposal made by the rapporteur in the first draft. Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u28	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I would like to add to my draft law, which has been completely rewritten as just a word for Kuzmuk, what should be complemented by the fact that we are not considering it in September but in October. In the second paragraph of this draft law, I propose to write down a mandatory rule: "The act of this law extends to members of the military, members of the military and the chief of staff who have been released from service since 1 October 2011" – that is, from the day we began our pension reform. And so we're going to correct that mistake that was deliberately assumed in relation to this very, so to speak, a serious category of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, let us, with such a complement with the mandate of the General Legal Authority to take into account the legal and editorial rules, vote on Bill No. 9171-1 with the addition Simonenko has made, as a whole, as a law. Please vote. [[16:27:14]] For 275 Thank you. The law is passed. The question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on wages paid to employees of Topaz M. Donetsk]] Bills number 9217, 9217-1. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[16:27:53]] For 215 Offer supported. Please, the bill is being presented. The bill is presented by Peter Volodymyrovich Melnik. Please. Prepare Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u30	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Budget Affairs today considered a bill amending the 2011 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, number 9217-1. The bill proposes to provide the State Agency for the administration of state corporate rights and property with funds to provide state-owned financial support to the state-owned stockholder holding company Topaz by granting an interest-free long-term loan of 40 million dollars. The source of the additional costs of the State budget is proposed to determine an increase in the corresponding amount of tax revenue for the added value of imported goods into Ukraine, which is realistic, taking into account the state of receipts of this tax to the State budget. In January-September of this year, the planned figures for the reporting period from the value added tax on imported goods in Ukraine were converted by 5.3 billion dollars or 8.6 percent. The bill is balanced by the revenue and expenditure of the State budget. At the same time, it should be noted that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted laws on 6 October of this year and today amending the State Budget Act 2011 by budgetary indicators and then needing to adjust the bill's indicators accordingly. It should also be noted that Appendix No.2 to the bill does not contain a summary line, "all of it", which should be determined accordingly by the legislative proposal. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion to the bill, notes that it is appropriate to draw the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers on this bill and makes a number of observations and suggestions. The Ministry of Finance does not object to the adoption of this bill. The committee decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, number 9217-1, on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted on the basis and generally as a law to take account of such changes. In the draft law, the budget figures in sub-paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, the reporter, more faithfully, the coreporter of these bills is another member of the committee. You're still reporting your bill. There are two of them. You understand, then you're your bill first, then you're the committee's opinion. Well, why are you. I don't know if the Rules Committee should be sent to the Finance Committee, the budget, or what? I have a reporter here, Lukyanov, not Melnik. Melnik will report on his bill. For now, please sit down. Cowchenko Mikola. Yeah, now someone from the committee: Lukyanov or Melnik? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u32	The draft law proposes a budgetary indicator in section I, sub-paragraph 1, and the indicators in Appendix No. 1 to the bill to be noted with reference to the Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 6 October 2011 of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2011 and other bills to amend the Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. [[on the stability of the aviation complex]] Appendix 2 to the bill is to be completed with the string "all" and to determine the indicators that take into account the proposed amendments. In view of the above, the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, needs to make the necessary clarifications to the legislative addenda if it is to be adopted when it is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. Please support the committee's decision to take into account the sound. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u33	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Sign up. Please. Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u34	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass it on to Paul Zebrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u35	Paul Zebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u36	Dear colleagues! Pay's got to be paid. Topaz is an amazing Ukrainian enterprise that actually does Colchuu and other, navigational equipment, which is a high-intelligent, high-tech production. But today, it's surprising the approach. I understand that Colleague Kravchenko, who was passing his bill, saw that there were problems with paying wages, he wanted to help. But he is surprised by the representative of the bill, the representative of power. In fact, I understand that this is a bill written by the Ministry of Prompolitics or now a state agency. Instead of giving the company an order, make it make the enterprise earn money, make it work and earn, and it can make money and it has to make money, we're funding today. I think that this approach without a technical-economic basis, without understanding what, after all, after giving those 40 million dollars, we're going out, and how much this enterprise is actually going to be an adornment of the Ukrainian economy, the military-industrial complex and the Ukrainian economy in general, it's hard to say. It's just patching a hole, and we're giving it a detachable one, but there's absolutely no power to realize and take steps to make businesses like Topaz really profitable, and they're bound to be profitable, and they're giving people the opportunity to make money. And in fact, Ukrainian GDP has increased significantly, not by selling weeds or other raw materials, but by actually high-tech products. I think this bill is kind of populist for Torres, but it doesn't solve the question that he has to solve.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u37	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u38	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, of course, need to support this bill. Just as we would support the draft law passed by my Fakcionist Kravchenko Nikolai Vasilievich, which also addresses the problem of wage debt in this enterprise. The problem is very serious, and today in the budget committee, we have discussed this issue and said that it is necessary for the Government to inform them of how not only this, a very important, strategic defence enterprise, but also businesses and not only the defence complex will be addressed. Today, Ukrainian communists are conducting the action: "Work, protection, wages". We have work to do. It's community service. And we welcome the people who come to us with these problems, with debt-to-wage problems, unpaid funds when the employee is fired. And I am pleased that, at least by this bill, we will resolve one small issue. But there are similar problems in my Kharkiv region, and there are similar wages at the Chevchenko factory, at the Hems factory, and at the serious defence company, the Malysheva factory. Therefore, in considering this bill, and of course in support of it, I propose to support it. I note that the Government here has offered and supported, return, an interesting mechanism to address this problem, but this does not solve the defence sector as a whole and does not eliminate the problem of wage debts in Ukraine as a whole. I therefore insist from the Communist faction that the Government should report to all of us on one of the days of the Government on Friday, not this, so on the following day, as it intends to deal with the debt of wages. Because one law on a particular enterprise will not solve the issue, and we cannot legislate on each enterprise individually. There are problems that the Government must address in general. The Communist faction would therefore vote, but would draw attention to the need to resolve the problem in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u39	Smith George.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u40	Please pass the word to Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u41	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my point of view is shared by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gregory Smythuch, so we agreed that I would give a voice to our position. The point is that the bill gives us a reason to study and analyze the state of the work of state-owned detention companies. If we're at this high level right now talking about debt on wages, imagine what's going on there. It's not even about the debt on wages, it's about how, it's not surprising, it's about how the state uses the potential of state-owned casinos. For example. It's a restricted state-owned casino company called Sparkle. Dear colleagues, the Euro-2012 budget for this happiness has already gone up to almost 100 billion dollars. Please tell me if the Ukrainian airports are involved in the reconstruction of the "Iskra" State Penitentiary? Zero. How about Topaz with the unique earrings? Zero. So, if you'll excuse me, it's not a practice, it's not a policy of government detention. Or did the state or government, after all, give the Portuguese State Treasury the right to go to the international market on their own, to make their own contracts, to self-supply their own supply of spare parts? Nothing like that. I remember my discussions with Valery Ivanovich Malov, his kingdom of heaven, when we tried to break through the law of the State Treasury to enable them to manage their own tools, especially the supply of spare parts. There was a time when the Zaporezian State Treasury firm Iskra was in trouble producing wheelchairs. Now, these wheelchairs aren't ordered by the government, because they're able to buy on the side somewhere, probably with some drum interests. One more. The opposition state-owned casino enterprise Titano-Magnium combine is an insurmountable, "Lia" of the Ukrainian economy. Where is she now, where is she? Colleagues, I propose this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm asking you not to line up. Can I sign up? You can sign up. Chaplain, one minute. There's no motive, there's a faction from which.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the MP's reform group for the future, including today's both bills, came out of the next one. In fact, Topaz needs help. Indeed, a listening business. Indeed, an enterprise, even through which Ukraine was granted certain sanctions. Remember, these are our earrings. But the two bills lie in a completely different plane. The first is that he wants help, but he's breaking four laws. [[9217]] The second wants to help, but it doesn't determine what kind of financial and economic situation Topaz has, what kind of assets it owns and where this debt came from. And in the event that one state-owned enterprise is not counted against another and that is why a working group suffers, some effort may be needed to take on the responsibility of those government officials who work in these enterprises. In spite of this, the MP's Reform for the Future supports Bill 9217-1 in the first reading, bearing in mind that we will pay attention to what a state-owned enterprise should take care of.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u45	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. But once again, I urge and ask the authors of the legislative initiative. Well, almost every bill that deals with budget changes is copied as the budget committee says. So I'm addressing everyone who writes, including the Cabinet of Ministers, except the Ministry of Finance, other departments, when you're writing bills and interfering with the state budget, first of all consult with the committee of profile, how do we properly write, so that we don't constantly edit the proceedings. Once again, this applies to the Cabinet of Ministers, except the Ministry of Finance, and this applies, unfortunately, to our colleagues. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of Bill 9217, Kravchenka's bill. Although here, colleagues, a really right committee. There's an idea of a bill, but unfortunately, it's not implemented, someone's going to get away with it. But I'm betting on a vote of 9217. [[16:42:23]] For-34 Not supported. Then 9217-1, I propose to support the committee's proposal: to enact as a whole a law that takes into account the committee's proposals. Please vote. [[16:42:51]] For 261
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u46	"To" is 261. Law, we passed the law, didn't we? The law is passed. Thank you. Honorable National MPs, honourable colleagues, are being announced for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Social Morality. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Paul Unguryan. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Committee Vladimir Ivanovich Landik. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:43:50]] For 219 Decision taken. Yes, Paul Yakimovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, your point is a very important law for our state, for our society. It's actually in a new edition of this kind of fat, the Social Moral Protection Act. The last law, which was passed nearly 10 years ago, actually enabled us in Ukraine to make arrangements for the protection of our children, the protection of young people, teenagers, Ukrainian families in the matter of social morality. Regrettably, Ukrainian society today has become too open to various kinds of dirt, for a variety of years of pornography, for a variety of destructive factors of the Ukrainian nation. That is why there was a need to improve legislation on the subject. I am delighted that the subjects of social morality, moral protection, and the spirituality of our society are able to unite the Ukrainian politics capable of uniting the Supreme Council. For example, under this law, as co-authors, MPs from all parliamentary factions, from the faction of the Party of the Regions are Julia Ljovczyna, Vladimir Olijnik and Gregory Samofalov. This is the faction of our Ukraine, this is the faction of the Communist Party, this is the faction of the People's Party, this faction of the BUT and the NUNS faction, that is, all the parliamentarians have delegated these representatives to co-authorize this very important law. What is the purpose of this law? To bring our legislation into line with technical progress, which, unfortunately, allows today very serious criminal groups, children on the mountain, parents on the mountain, to share disgraceful information.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u48	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u49	because of the various informational influences. That's why a lot of terms, a lot of concepts are applied and the possibility of such distribution is blocked. This is very, very important, and the committee is proposing to support the first reading, to take the basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u50	Thank you. Mr. Vladimir Ivanovich Landik, please, from the committee, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u51	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! According to the authors of the legislative initiative, the adoption of a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Social Morality and the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine will allow the protection of social morality to be transformed into a reliable mechanism for protecting Ukraine's information space from production that has a negative impact on social morality. In view of the purpose of this law, innovations that it provides should lay the legal foundations for protecting society from the spread of products that have a negative impact on social morality. The bill also proposes to regulate certain social relations that are subject to the regulation of other legislative acts. In particular, the activities of the National Commission for the Protection of Social Morality. The general flaws of the bill should be addressed by the way in which some legislative proposals are made in a way that is not legal. Thus, this legislative novelty has a declarative character. The document also repeats the same positions. But all of this can be settled in a second reading. The committee considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Social Morality, introduced by the national MPs Ungurian, Movcan, Grigorovich and others. [[Registration number 1732]] And I approved recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u52	Thank you, too, Volodymyr Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u53	Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, over a long period of time in society have accumulated and composed and developed certain spiritual and moral values that have become ethical norms. Sadly, though, these acquisitions have recently been undervalued. Contrary to the traditions of our people, permissiveness is limited to fornication, freedom with permissiveness. Drunkenness, drug abuse, racism, violence, and cruelty are gaining ground. All of this destroys the spirituality, Christian and national traditions, and destroys the family institution. There has been a Social Moral Protection Act in Ukraine since 2003, which lays down the legal basis for protecting society from the spread of products that have a negative impact on social morality. The project’s authors believe that it is outdated and needs improvement. That's right, but it should be noted that the proposed project has a number of flaws that are detailed in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. To my profound conviction, the definition of the terms in the laws should be more clear. The project’s authors suggest, for example, a number of statements that need to be worked out very seriously. Articles 5, 7, 9 of the bill are essentially declarative. The previous speaker said that it was proposed to create a special collegiate state body, a commission of Ukraine for the protection of social morality, but this refers to the powers of the President of Ukraine and is being submitted by the Prime Minister. There are many disadvantages, but the problem of our society’s moral decline is too acute to delay and its solutions need to be sought today and now because there is a situation where social morality needs to be protected at the legislative level, since this is already a matter for the future fate of the state. I suggest you take it as a base and work on the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u54	Stepan Dávimuk, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u55	Dear colleagues! In recent years, information technologies have developed extremely violently, requiring periodic adjustment. In recent times there has been a great deal of information on the dangers that come from the information space of Ukraine. And unfortunately, Ukraine's information space is open to all winds, so we need structures, we need mechanisms for adequate protection, and we need appropriate public policy in this regard. Each state has direct or indirect mechanisms to protect its information space. So this law, this proposal is relevant, it needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u56	Yuri Litwin's handing over the right to speak to Oleg Zarubinski, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u57	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, correctly noted that the bill had flaws: it was a fact, frankly, in any systematic, comprehensive draft of the law being submitted to the first reading, because it was easier to make two words in the form of changes to something than to form a comprehensive, systematic bill. But it has many benefits that I think allow us to support it for further consideration in the second reading. Among such benefits, I would like to highlight things that have not yet been discussed in order not to repeat myself. Article 10 of the bill prohibits the use of uncensored, swearing and brutal words in the production of printed media, television and radio programs distributed during the airtime in the daily section from 6.00 p.m. to 23.00 p.m. Frankly, I think this rule could have been extended all the time, because I don't understand why normal people with normal mentality from television screens, not sick people should always hear swearing, not censoring in the literal sense of that word. And the more television, for example, develops, the more this noncensorship. Perhaps someone likes it, perhaps someone only communicates in that language, but it is not necessary to spread it to all Ukrainian citizens. It's a definite requirement, and right, a bill that doesn't make the TVs sound bad, dirty words. I insist that this is the right norm in the bill. As the right norm in the bill and the fact that constant pedaling, I would even say the taste of scenes of violence, the naturalism of bloody scenes, is simply unacceptable. And it's not just, the honourable drafters of the bill, in the works of art, it's in the news. If you look at some of our central channels.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u58	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u59	If you look at some of our central, I emphasize, channels, there's a grid forming like that. At first 10 to 15 minutes, the victims of the crash appear in a naturalized form, obviously behind Freud, to scare everyone. Fear, however, is the most powerful thing that can happen, is that one clings to television. That's how ratings make their TV, that's a disgraceful practice. The second story is that the mother ate her baby. The third story of this kind and so on. This has to be stopped sometime. Thank you to the legislators.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u60	Thank you. [[Applause]] Yes, please, Gennady Samofalov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u61	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm not gonna talk about the bill, it's really systemic, it's huge. I just want to say that he didn't just show up all of a sudden. An action group of 42 people, where academics, doctors of science, educators, psychologists, lawyers, philosophers worked on the draft law for three years. And today it's basically normal. Yes, there are some shortcomings, especially technical remedies. I think by the second reading, we'll have them cleaned up and corrected. I would therefore like to support this draft law on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u62	Mikola Kulczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I have to express my position, and it is unusual for the performances that I have heard. Because I am deeply convinced that the path to hell is paved with good intentions. From the time of Savonarola, all those who fought for morale ended up in the fires of inquisitions or burning books, German and Stalin concentration camps, Soviets. As a result, this bill needs to be approached with caution. I would like to suggest that he be sent for processing, since the child should not be drooled with water. Because we can, and especially for a democratic society, have a special value under the mark of combating pornography or. and such immoral other things, as it were, suppressing freedom of speech. It touches the Internet. These articles are not exactly written out. Next. I want to know what aggressive nationalism is. Why is this a term used everywhere. While "great-state chauvinism", which is a threat in Ukraine today, and "racism" are not in many things, these are things that are important to Ukraine today, because Ukrainian nationalism, I emphasize, is currently maintaining its democratic role, because it stands for the rights of the Ukrainian nation, which has been persecuted and compensated for mechanisms for centuries, the Ukrainian State has not yet created for the Ukrainians. So there's a lot of other things in this bill that he's warning. It warns that society will lose certain principles of freedom of speech, and we must act on this principle: freedom of information does not have to. freedom of speech does not have to be narrowed down in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u64	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u65	So I ask you to support my proposal and send a bill to redraft and take more seriously the many issues that have been raised. The concepts expressed in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u66	Eugene Kzarkov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u67	The Communist faction would vote in favour of the bill and co-sponsored the bill. But I want to read a quote for everyone to understand that there is a war between capital and morality today. And one of the gurus of television, Constantine Ernst, recently said this, is a direct phrase: "Contemporary television should offer its services to any customer, as a street prostitute, it must be convincing. No one will ever treat us like a church that needs to be visited at a certain time and day. Telecanals are not a cinema with large posters, which is left to take care of ticket sales. We will pursue people everywhere, by whatever means we can. Indeed, today they are doing so: They are destroying our morale. And of course, this law is not a code of communist builders, but it is one step to understand that without censorship, normal censorship, which is in every civilized society, our society will be dissolved as soon as possible. And remember even the Soviet censorship that let go of all the good: both Jack London and Twenna, and it kept us from all the garbage that's coming down on us from the West. We therefore ask for the support of the bill. To second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. The main scientific and expert management is of the view that it is appropriate to recommend that a draft be sent for further work. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote first the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Social Morality. [[Registration number 7132]] Please vote. [[17:00:23]] For 276 Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine to improve confiscation procedures. [[Registration number 9208]] The reporter is Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. There's an offer, honourable colleagues, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:01:03]] For 218. Decision taken. Please be prepared by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u69	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposed to address the issues that we have accumulated over a period of time regarding the confiscation of property is the result of the recommendations of the Anti-Corruption Group after the report they published after visiting Ukraine. The bill proposes to amend the Criminal and Procedural Codes. We thus ensure the execution of the evaluation report, and to date the possibility of special confiscation is provided for directly in articles or in parts of articles, a particular part of the Criminal Code, and only for individual crimes, including copyright violations and adjacent rights, smuggling, export, manufacture or sale and distribution of pornographic objects and some others. In doing so, the use of a special confiscation is permitted only for property used for the purpose of committing a crime or for the purpose of committing a crime, and only after the legal force has been acquired is the sentence of acquittal. The position of the project provides the only approach to the application of a special confiscation. To this end, it is suggested that all articles of a particular section of the Criminal Code be deleted that allow them to be applied. At the same time, the codex is supplemented by a new section called "Special Seizure", whose standards are peremptory and universal. According to the proposed provisions of this section of the Criminal Code, a special confiscation is applied by the court, regardless of the type of crime committed, and in all cases, where money, values, or other property obtained as a result of the commission of a crime or is the proceeds of such property when it is intended to finance or provide material security for crime, or rewards for its commission, or is the subject of a crime other than those who have been the subject of criminal acts in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u70	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u71	In this case, they return to the owner or rightful ruler. What I'm saying is that making these changes will allow us to systematize the general approach and conceptually change the approach of confiscation in third parties, whether there was a verdict or not, if it's proven that these funds were used for the purpose of committing the crime, during the commission of the crime, or as a profit or profit as a result of the commission of the crime. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u72	Thank you. Vladimir Leschenko will be speaking from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal and Procedural Codes for the Improvement of the Procedure for Confiscation, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, came for processing to the committee only on September 27, 2011. [[Registration number 9208]] And the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration came only today. For the above reasons, the bill was not considered by the committee. But the committee members were able to express their thoughts. First of all, it should be noted that the project’s content is such that it requires careful study. Moreover, since the proposed changes may affect a large part of society, it may be necessary to discuss them publicly. It should also be noted that, according to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of the first reading, it is appropriate to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. Experts have expressed a number of valid comments and suggestions, including that the bill requires amendments to chapter 83 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Changes that are not proposed will therefore not be considered in the first reading, which would lead to a violation of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. In the light of what has been said, the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to return the draft law to the subject of the legislative initiative, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, for detailed work. Please support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Please, Gregory Smythech faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I will personally vote against this law. And it's from the position that it's an impression that there's a great deal of understanding that third people, after introducing such norms that are proposed by this bill, can illegally be deprived of legal property, so to speak, by the legal property that they have as a result of those or other processes have acquired ownership rights. That's one question. And the second question. If we are today talking about decriminalization of our society, especially in the economic sphere, this law has no effect or effect on the responsibility of individuals who have a direct bearing on the commission of crimes. I agree with the position that, of course, some of the norms that need to be improved today are due to the fact that legal force has gained the power of the court that has entered into legal force, and of course the law enforcement authorities should have a transparent and clear procedure. But I ask myself, does this law acquire such a practice that it is clarity, clarity, etc., etc., and so on, when a person, a citizen person, secures his rights, according to the Constitution of Ukraine. In my opinion, it doesn't reflect. I mean, on the one hand, we're making it easier for law enforcement, and on the other hand, I think we're making it worse for a person to defend his rights, including in court. So I call on you not to vote for this law, but to send this law to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u76	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u77	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies. After a lengthy discussion, our parliamentary group concluded that the bill did not improve the situation. First, its shape, its design, and its design, it already involves problems. Because other bills really need to be amended. This is a procedure that we cannot go through in 116 articles. But there's another point that, besides everything else that's been said right now before this Mr. Gregory Smittuh, I'd like to emphasize. We are concerned that where everything is to be clearly distributed so that there is no longer the possibility of any subjective approach, an extreme subjective approach, this subjective approach is actually formed. To this end, in principle, our Criminal Code has been written in every gender under which confiscation can be applied. It is obvious that we need to do another analysis of what articles to be added after which to take the picture. Instead, it's not bad in principle, it can be supported in general, it's a special confiscation rule, but it's made as universal. Further, for the investigator’s consideration, for the judge’s consideration, or for the article, for the confiscation or not. The standards laid down in this law do not, in our view, give sufficient certainty that there will be no abuse or corruption. So we think that the bill deserves attention, but in the form of reprocessing or re-reading. We need to avoid problems that could make the situation worse for Ukrainian citizens. Our parliamentary group, in support of the idea that in the course of general decriminalization of crimes, the transfer of responsibility to money itself, to finance, that we should not create conditions in which there may be a negative for citizens. The very subjective application of the law. We believe that the law should be sent for further processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? I can't see. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine to improve confiscation procedures. [[Registration number 9208]] Please vote. [[17:10:49]] For 244 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is given to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the congregation for environmental pollution]] Rapporteur of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues, let's address this issue in a simplified way. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[17:11:29]] For 229 Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u79	Mr. Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable members of the people, me and the national deputy Pecklesenk, was introduced for the consideration of the Supreme Council. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2011 was introduced under registration number 9294. The bill is designed to create conditions for targeted use of the funds that come to the state and local budgets in the current year from the environmental pollution assembly. By 2011, such a congregation had been managed, it had been part of a special state budget fund — 30 per cent and local budgets — 70 per cent and had been the source of appropriate state and local environmental protection funds. The tax code assigned to the congregation is now not installed. And there's an environmental tax in place. But according to the Transitional Regulations of this Code, in the current year, this congregation is included in the last reporting period of 2010 and in the payment of the tax debt in order and under the conditions that were in force before this year 2011. According to the Treasury, during January-September, the congregation's arrival in the budget was 417 million dollars. Including the government budget of 125 million, and local budgets of 292 million dollars. However, the State Budget Act 2011 does not define the collection for environmental pollution as the source of the special fund's income. The bill therefore provides for a special state budget fund of 30 percent of the environmental pollution congregation of 125 million dollars and a focus on environmental protection. The law is balanced. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council supports this initiative. The Ministry of Finance is in favour. The Committee on Budget Questions today supported the bill. The proposal to supplement the bill with a rule on clarification was further supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u80	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u81	In terms of clarifying the direction of the use of subsidies to local budgets for the socio-economic development of specific areas for the budget of the city of Donetsk. In addition, the bill needs to clarify the total revenue and expenditure of the State budget according to the last edition of the 2011 Budget Act, taking into account the bills adopted to amend it. First of all, with regard to stabilizing the work of the aviation complex that we have adopted today and today in addition to the draft legislation. In addition, the name of the congregation and the proposed changes to article 7 of the State Budget Act 2011 should be revised. The committee adopted the following decision: recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Act amending the budget number 9291, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u82	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, don't you need to discuss this? The point is that the funds are used locally to provide the right benefit. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. I'm voting on the proposal for. Change the vote. Please, Kirilo Kulikov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u83	As a member of the budget committee, I support these bills, and this has really been considered by the committee, and this is important. But unfortunately, you weren't there, we were looking at another bill on 9217-1 and 9217. So Law 9217, Communist Kravchenka, he was referring to a 10 million dollar premium for Topaz. And the Ministry of Finance concluded that there were no funds. And when we voted and voted in favour of Bill 9217-1, there were 40 million, and those 40 million we found. Then I have a simple question for the Ministry of Finance. What really happens, how can a situation happen when 10 is gone and 40 is? Thank you very much, excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u84	Thank you. I will ask you to prepare an appeal to the Ministry of Finance to find out the situation in which the national deputy Kirilo Kulikov just spoke. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis and as a whole the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the 2011 National Budget, taking into account the Committee's proposal. [[on the congregation for environmental pollution]] Please vote. [[17:16:46]] For 269 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we discussed this matter with you in the morning. We passed the law. Dear colleagues, we discussed with you in the morning a matter of time. We had a heated debate, and then we found out all the details and agreed on the proposal that would apply if the Supreme Council of Ukraine were to take the appropriate decision, then there was a Cabinet Order of Ministers of Ukraine, and there would be a transfer in the last week of the same month an hour ago. Then there will be a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and we will resolve this problem in the light of all the circumstances. And in the consultation process, we agreed and removed all the warnings and warnings that were made. So we have every opportunity to make this decision now in order to be clear and clear and for state institutions, for government and for our citizens. So I'm voting on the motion for a return to the draft regulation, registration number 9297. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:18:16]] For 292 We returned to the decision. I'm betting on a motion for a draft ruling as a ruling. [[Registration number 9297]] Please vote. [[17:18:44]] For 295 Decision taken. I thank all the people's deputies, all the factions for the fact that in the process of consultation we have come up with the important decision that is needed for the country, for everyone, I emphasize, thank you. [[Applause]] Dear National MPs, the draft Act on Professional Development of Workers on Production is under review. [[Registration number 9161]] There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[17:19:30.]] For 219 Decision taken. Rapporteur – First Deputy Minister of Social Policy Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Svetlana Alexandrovna Šmelov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u85	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law has been developed by the Government to implement the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine with the aim of legalizing the system of professional training of workers in production, since the current system of professional training in production does not fully allow the employer to prepare his own workforce on his own according to the needs of production. In particular, despite the fact that a worker can be trained at a high professional level, most businesses, without a license for education, are making informal training. At the same time, there is no document of qualifications. For example, there are currently 8,000 occupations in the classification of professions. However, the system of vocational education provides training for only 500 professions. Thus, the system of vocational education does not satisfy the need for modern manufacturing in its entirety, so a bill has been drafted by the government to address this problem. The adoption of the bill will enable the production of skilled personnel to be ensured, to increase the professional level of workers according to the requirements of modern production and to ensure, on this basis, the production of competitive products in world markets; and to reduce production levels. Industrial trauma caused by insufficient qualifications of workers. The implementation of the draft law does not require additional costs from the State Budget. Dear National Deputies! Taking into account the orientation of this bill to raise the problem of the preparation of skilled workforces for modern production, please accept this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u86	Thank you. Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelova, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, please. He's refusing to speak? Please sign up, your honors, to discuss this matter. Names of the national MPs, please. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u87	Please give my word to my colleague Kuril.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers on the professional development of workers in manufacturing, in our view, can be supported in the first reading. Although, in our opinion, it's quite a palliative bill. And in general, we need to adopt the National Qualifications Framework Act. This law, on the national qualifications framework, we have in Parliament, and it's been out once, it hasn't passed, but it's now worked and it has to go. But at the same time, while we don't have the National Qualifications Framework Act that exists in most countries of the world today, you can still adopt it in the first reading and this bill that doesn't solve all the issues of preparing workers directly for production, but which is necessary. Because today it is already a requirement of employers that the employer should be able to prepare and train the staff. In view of the emergence of new productions, quite complex productions, while not all workers are able to hold positions, we feel that the first reading requires support and further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m1.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, who else insists on discussing this matter? None. Dear colleagues, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft Act on Professional Development of Workers in Production, registration number 9161. At the same time, I am informing you that the Committee has made critical remarks and is proposing that the subject be reinstated from the legislative initiative. That's the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to accept the project as a basis, 9161. [[17:24:54]] For 252 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, all the questions that were planned for consideration today have been considered. So I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work from 10:00 a.m. to Wednesday, October 19. Thank you.
