ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:59]] Cards were registered in the 375 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Edina Alexander Josephovich and Kazinuk Alexander Rostislavovich. Please welcome our colleagues, wish them success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 11 to 13 May 2011. There were four plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a result of these plenary sessions, 61 issues of the agenda will be considered. As a result of these issues, 16 laws and 21 regulations were passed, 6 bills were adopted on the basis of which 4 bills were converted to the committee for further elaboration, and 16 bills and 5 draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 3 laws have been passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 1 law has been rejected. 88 parliamentary inquiries were announced. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer your attention to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sigal Yevgen Yakovic, into the membership of the Party of the Regions. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council Rules, we have 30 minutes to speak on Tuesday for authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Please record a statement from factions and groups. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Corge will be next. Or who you define by faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u2	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Respectable citizens! In my speech, I would like to draw attention to the problems of our citizens who have little or no interest in politics. Because these people aren't going to rally, they're hard to use to achieve their political goals. At the same time, most of them are not interested in the media, since they have neither money nor ratings. There are numerous victims of trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings is recognized as a serious crime at the international level. Both women and men and children who suffer from various forms of exploitation are victims of this crime. Ukraine is a country of origin, a country of transit and a country of destination for men, women and children who are exported abroad for sexual exploitation and forced labour. Women are forced to work in the sex industry as housewives, in the service sector, in textiles or other light industry enterprises. Most of the men affected by human trafficking were exploited in various countries, mainly as builders, factory workers, farm workers, or seamen. Since 1991, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians have suffered from human trafficking and this is from the International Organization of Migration. The signing and ratification by Ukraine of the Protocol on the Prevention and Cessation of Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, which complements the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, has demonstrated Ukraine's recognition as a State of the need to take measures to address such a problem as trafficking in human beings, through the introduction of state-owned policies in this area at whatever new level. And the introduction by Ukraine in 1998 of criminal responsibility for trafficking in human beings was a sign of recognition of this phenomenon as socially dangerous and different from other criminal acts. According to the law enforcement authorities on human trafficking, if almost all cases were related to sexual exploitation by 2007, most areas of Ukraine are becoming increasingly involved in the problem of trafficking in persons for the purpose of labour exploitation. The International Organization for Migration reported that 4 percent of the victims of trafficking in human beings in Ukraine are children. Despite the existence of a series of legal instruments that provide for practical measures to combat trafficking in human beings, there is no comprehensive legislative instrument that identifies all aspects of combating this dangerous phenomenon. The best way to solve the problem is to adopt the Ukrainian Anti-Trafficking Act, which we already have in place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it should be about not only the implementation of State policy aimed at countering trafficking in human beings, but also the authorization of executive authorities, but also the mechanism to prevent this phenomenon, but also the provision of assistance and protection to affected persons, but also increasing the responsibility for the crime in this area. Dear colleagues, in all fates: Someone has achieved life’s success, someone thinks he has taken the bull by the horns, and someone finds himself on the sidelines, deceived, and deceived. But in a civilized state, there can't be citizens who are favorites and citizens who are dispossessed, because they're all people and they all deserve to be happy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u3	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”. The next one will be the Soviet. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u4	Honorable Presidium, respected compatriots! Two years ago, after writing a fantastic Act on raising double social standards, the opposition then, and today’s majority half a year reportedly blocked the rostrum. After all, the authorities have succeeded, and the law has been successfully buried. And today, instead of the promised double wages, pensions, scholarships are twice the price, tariffs, services, twice the year became billionaires, and so their wealth has doubled. You think people don't see it or know it? The situation in society is becoming more and more threatening, and people have long been annoyed by the hardships and accusations of predecessors. But this is not the only problem. Clearly, the country lacks money in a catastrophic way. According to the Court of Auditors, executions in the first quarter were mainly carried out on the basis of external loans. As a result, the government debt increased by nearly 12 billion dollars. That's not the conclusion, that's the verdict. After taxing the whole country with tax-related innovations, dangerous pension and labour reform entanglements, the burden of residential and utility hotels*** on their knees is asked by the IMF for only one and a half billion dollars. Compared to what we can get from our own resources, it's tobacco. Take the example of Kazakhstan: after the 1998 crisis, this country was in ruins, but turned to people, amnestyd private capital -- once, covered up the flight of money in offshore -- two, gave maximum freedom to small and medium-sized enterprises -- and that's all. In ten years, the country’s economy has grown 13 times, per capita produces goods and services by $10,000, and is expected to reach 15. [[Just think about it!]] I'll remind you, we only have three thousand. So what prevents us from finally getting rid of the world’s disgrace? Because we're the only ones who've taken more than 30 billion dollars off-shore without taxes in the last year, more than the government's living money has collected. These costs must remain in the country and be a real source of both investment and substantial increases in wages and pensions. The other one. What prevents us from adopting the Law on the Legalization of Income? That's about $40 billion that's dead capital. This too must be done without delay. Because after the adoption of the anti-corruption law, people understand, even though it does apply to not all of us, but we have a situation where they can knock on everyone. Next. Why are you ignoring our income tax proposal? At least analyze the banks. We have them in most foreign countries. In countries with a civilized economy, this sector accounts for about 10 percent of the total income in the economy. We have four or five times as many estimates. So do we have banks serving the economy or do we have parasites on it? The most expensive loans in Europe -- we have, the percentage of deposits for the population has been reduced at once, and the village loans have been below 15-20 percent, and they have remained. Consumer credit is being restored today. Ukrainian citizens are offered, of course, imported goods. In trusted Ukrainians, they will earn again three times. First of all, we have three times as much credit as we have in Europe, secondly, the country will export the currency, and thirdly, a foreign producer will be supported at the expense of our consumer. Did yesterday’s crisis teach anything or benefit anyone? Take the fuel. Three years ago, the price of oil was higher, and our gas was 1.5 times cheaper. They've cleaned up the excise. Some companies import fuel without any taxes. So it's going to cost 6 or 7 dollars. Who does the profits go to? But there is an urgent need to increase taxes. Five to six billion dollars a month extra in the budget won't be too much. So, ladies and gentlemen, take at least these three laws that we're proposing, and get an extra $100 billion and $30 billion each year.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u6	Once again, keep these three laws, here they are before me. And get an extra $100 billion every year in cash and $30 billion in investments. People were able to do it, and they did it. What is your problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u7	People's Deputy Caplienko. Please, the MP's Reforms for the Future. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u8	Honorable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens! The Reform Group for the Future points out that, following the events of May 9th in Lviv, there was an official confirmation of the representatives of the left and left-wing political forces about the intentions of taking action in Lviv on June 22 with representatives of the left-wing forces of Russia to mark the start of the Great War. Prognosis of possible scenarios until violent opposition is spread in the media. That is why we believe that Parliament needs to intervene in this situation and call on the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service to make every effort to prevent a repeat of the scandalous situation with abuse of the memory of the heroes who protected our homeland. As for the bills tabled for Parliament this week, the Reforms for the Future Group draws your attention to the government bill registration number 7532, amending some Ukrainian legislation on public procurement. The project does not satisfy our voters who express outrage at the shadowy schemes of abuse in public procurement. They require the establishment of clear, transparent and clear public procurement procedures. Of course, there is an institution around the world in what way and how state - owned purchases are made. They are also in institutions such as the European Bank, the World Bank, in every country of the European community, but there is no corruption. The general comments of the Reform Group for the Future are as follows: the lack of order for monitoring government purchases carried out by the Mineconomy does not set clear limits for the control powers of the authorities empowered to carry out this control. The other one. Restricted rights of participants in the liability insurance part of the contract. The amount set out in the contract for the purchase of goods, jobs, and services is equal to or greater than ten million dollars. That is, if the amount of the contract is less than ten million, the liability insurance is excluded. Third. No one is specifically defined: the seller, the participant, the buyer or the customer should be responsible for the liability of the contract. So there's a risk that the third party, a questionable lobbyist group, might be involved in insurance. Four. The project allows for virtually any change in the substantive terms of the contract. See, the volume, the units of production, the quality and the terms may be violated in accordance with the terms of this law. The incomprehensible mechanism of purchasing through market agreements, especially the conclusion of market agreements, determines the economics and the specifics of the definition – the Cabinet of Ministers. The flaws that this bill has cause only a lack of confidence in authority. Corruption and disregard for the interests of 47 million Ukrainian citizens is a red thread through the entire body of the bill. When we visit constituencies, each of us blushes at meetings with voters that we can't explain why the parties to school can be obtained only on the three-way and not at the beginning of the educational process, but only at the end of the school year. And the answer is simple: they're going to steal. Because some of the parts that are parasitic in government purchases live by the principle of "big can only be stolen into the state," because everything else is more or less protected. The Reform Group for the Future sees its fundamental task of putting a dot on this issue. We have decided not to support Bill 7532 until the above amendments are taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u9	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u10	Dear fellow citizens, dear colleagues! On May 11, a landmark event took place for our nation, and Ukraine led the Council of Europe’s Council of Ministers. Minister Constantine Grishchenko accepted in Istanbul, at the hands of his predecessor, the symbolic key from Europe. It will be useless to lie in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or it will really open the door to Europe – it depends on the Ukrainian authorities. Because we got a window of opportunity for six months to give us a new impetus to the process of European integration. It must be admitted that the numerous declarations of power regarding the movement to Europe have never been reinforced by real action, and the commitments made are not being fulfilled. Instead, marriages around the Customs Union continue. There are two key things that the Europeans pay particular attention to: a free market economy that is designed to meet people's needs; a second, to uphold democratic freedoms, including freedom of speech. It's all over the place. No matter how much the government leader boasts about the growth of the gross national product, you will not grease it on bread. It is foolish to show the people a virtual reality when they see real prices. They really do grow, which is what they do every day. In international economic ratings, Ukraine is rapidly falling. Yes, in the 2010 "Economic Freedoms" rating, our state dropped 164th among 179 countries in the world and took last place in Europe. According to United Nations statistics, up to 78 percent of the population in Ukraine is poor. It's about the economic achievements of power. And now some examples of respect for, more faithfully, the lack of respect for democratic freedoms. Justice is selective and politically motivated. The authorities are persecuting the opposition and have uncovered a number of criminal cases against it. Without all reason behind bars, opposition politicians are demonstrated, humiliated, and put at risk health and life. And freedom of speech is something strange and clearly unnecessary for the authorities. She really doesn't understand why we're moving to Europe. It is no wonder that the anti - rating of the enemies of the press, composed of independent journalistic organizations, was led by the President and the Prime Minister in just one year. Ukraine dropped from 108 to 121 in the annual press freedom ratingFreedom Hause. [[By the way, at Columbia level.]] The United States directly urges the Ukrainian authorities to investigate cases of censorship and pressure on the media. So in reality we have a movement from Europe and a disregard for democratic standards, and the declarations of power do not mislead anyone. The paradox was that the country that led the Council of Europe was still under its monitoring. Our authority still has a chance to change the situation. This requires two very simple conditions. First, stop violating democratic freedoms in Ukraine. Secondly, we must clearly testify to our geopolitical choice. The leaders of the Ukrainian State should clearly state the need to join Ukraine in the free trade zone with the European Union and to renounce the post - Soviet customs unions. This is going to be a test for the sincerity of the authorities' statements about European integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u11	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Leonid Kojar will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u12	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! I inform you that the company is holding a popular Ukrainian referendum. We have brought to justice the issues that are today determining. The purpose of the referendum is to involve policy-making on the specific problems of labourers, to unite them in the struggle for their rights and to force the power to hear the voice of the people. What are the issues? First. Clearly, food security is a key component of national security. And land is the strategic resource without which such security cannot be achieved. That is why the Company calls for support in our proposal to ban the sale of land. Second. A State that does not own the means of production cannot perform its social functions, i.e. pay decent pensions and wages, finance health and education, guarantee the constitutional rights of citizens to work, rest, housing. We propose that the key sectors of the economy should be restored to the public, nationalized oil, coal, metal and defence industries, electricity and rail transport. Third. It is clear that the current increase in prices and tariffs for the services of the JCC, which is carried out according to IMF requirements, is an open robbery of the population on which the oligarchs are profited. The company insists that the cost of housing and utilities should not exceed 10 per cent of the total income of the family and calls for a statement on this issue. During the All-Ukrainian referendum, the Company also proposes to support the introduction of a State monopoly on the sale of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. We call on citizens to speak out for the obligation of the State to exercise strict control over prices, including social goods and services. At a time when life expectancy is falling, it is immoral and irresponsible to increase the retirement age and increase the length of work to obtain a pension. The company is categorically opposed to this humiliating pension reform and calls for a referendum to be held against such reform. We also propose to speak on the status of the Russian language. The question is, "Do you agree that the second state language should be Russian?" There is no secret that the communists, on the one hand, have consistently and in principle advocated the inadmissibility of cooperation with the IMF under the cable conditions that this international organization has put forward to Ukraine. We are also opposed to Ukraine's insane entry into WTO and the destruction of its domestic producer under the cover of beautiful but false slogans about the free access of our goods to the European market. No one will let them in or allow Ukrainian goods to be sold as we would like in European markets. On the other hand, we are committed to restoring close economic ties and friendly relations with the CIS countries, especially with Russia, given the real advantages that the Customs Union can offer. Therefore, among the questions that the Company proposed to answer during the referendum were, of course, such. Do you agree that Ukraine's cooperation with the International Monetary Fund should be abandoned and Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization reviewed? And do you agree that Ukraine needs to join the Customs Union and enter the Single Economic Area with Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan? Dear citizens of Ukraine, we invite you to exercise your constitutional right, and as a single source of authority, we propose to participate in the referendum and give our word. If power doesn't hear that word, it's only worse for power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u13	Leonid Kojara, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u14	Good morning, dear colleagues. Today I'm speaking on behalf of the faction of the Party of Regions reporting on foreign policy. And actually, for the first time in this time, I can do without mentioning any outside political scandals or provocations. In Ukraine, there is daily routine work in the international arena, but it is this quiet work that benefits the state the most. Such an important event. The main focus these weeks was on the European trend. Since May 11, Ukraine has begun its six - month chairmanship of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers. Such an important event testifies, firstly, to Kiev's authority in this important European institution, and secondly, to the fact that the loud statements of our opposition about the alleged establishment of an authoritarian regime in Ukraine seem to be at least exaggerated. Leadership in the most authoritative European organization in the area of the formation and protection of democracy and human rights standards will enable Ukraine's position in European political space to be substantially strengthened. Ukraine considers the Council of Europe, and this is also my political position as the basic platform for the formation of European values for all countries of the continent, irrespective of their participation in one or more supra-national associations. Ukraine continues to move forward successfully through economic integration, both in relations with the European Union and within the Commonwealth of Independent States. Yesterday and today there is another round of negotiations with the European Union on a free trade zone in Brussels. We sincerely hope that during this round the last major differences between the parties will be agreed, and soon the part of the Association Agreement concerning the Free Trade Zone will be ready for signature. At the same time, on May 19th, the SND Free Trade Agreement will be signed by the Council of Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Independent States in Minsk. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine took the most active part in the development of this document. It takes into account the principles of the trade and economic interests of our state. Thus, these formal independent events, which in fact coincided in time, are a sign of loyalty to the principle that Ukraine’s interests are the most active part of economic integration, both in the West and in the East. A party of regions has always advocated this principle. I am especially pleased that he is now successfully embroiled in specific foreign policy activities. These days we have another example of a successful interaction with the EU at regional level. An agreement has been signed between the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the European Union on the financing of the Joint Cooperation Initiative in Crimea. The programme will provide 12 million euros for the economic development of Crimea and Sevastopol. In particular, for the development of tourism, social facilities, and foreign investment. And finally. Let me think about another direction of our foreign policy, the direction of Eastern Europe. In developing relations with large countries and regional associations, Ukraine does not forget its relationship with neighbouring Eastern European countries. I would like to remind you that today the presidents and Ukraine and the Republic of Poland meet virtually every month. Viktor Fedorovich visited Warsaw with a government visit in February. And his last meeting with President Komarovsky took place at the end of April in Kiev. And on May 27-28 of this year, the President of Ukraine will again visit Poland to participate in another Central-East Initiative summit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u15	Dear National Deputies! Factions finished speaking. With regard to the proposals, the requirements of the presentations, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Dear National Deputies! Let us turn to Tuesday’s issues, May 17. We need to put it in order, look at the inclusion of a daily set of bills. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for your work. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to send a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine to support the United Nations Operation in Côte d'Ivoire. [[Registration number 8499]] Please vote. [[10:31:27]] For 237 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 151 of the Ukraine Land Code to simplify the procedure for the granting of land for the needs related to the use of nadrama. [[Registration number 8209]] Please vote. [[10:32:06]] For 260 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act to shorten the deadline for the filing of documentation with the land administration. [[Registration number 8387]] Please vote. [[10:32:42]] For 276 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt for Services in Maintenance of Houses and Buildings and Incentive Areas and Municipal Services, which was created on 1 December 2006. [[on the grant mechanism]] [[Registration number 8390]] Please vote. [[10:33:27]] For 283 Decision taken. Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on the Specificities of Conduct in Administrative Offences and the Forced Expulsion of Foreigners and Non-Citizens during the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8426]] Please vote. [[10:34:07]] For 271 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on renewable energy sources. [[registration number 8455]] Please vote. [[10:34:40]] For 284 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on the Limitation of Costs of Legal Aid is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8393]] Please vote. [[10:35:10]] For 281 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity as regards the procedure for issuing a copy of the licence. [[Registration number 8450]] Please vote. [[10:35:45]] For 271 The decision is made. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities on the Extension of the Network of Allowance Centres. [[Registration number 8463]] Please vote. [[10:36:18]] For 261 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act "On first-hand measures to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis and to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine". [[Registration number 8439]] Please vote. [[10:36:55]] For 263 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on State Customs. [[on the Protection of Cultural Heritage]] [[Registration number 8428]] Please vote. [[10:37:27]] For 269 Decision taken. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on the list of items exempt from duty due to the organization and the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8443]] Please vote. [[10:38:06]] For 197 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Fisheries Act, Industrial Fisheries and the Protection of Water Resources Act. [[Registration number 8454]] Please vote. [[10:38:42]] For 257 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. [[on the increase of the age of entry into higher military educational institutions]] [[Registration number 8141]] [[10:39:22]] For 296 Decision taken. I'm betting on the voting proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the project. Yeah, right now. to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on the Regulation of Financial Activities in State Lottery in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8445]] At the same time, I point out to the drafters of the bill and the secretariat that the content of this bill goes far beyond the title of this law. That's not supposed to happen. Please be sure. [[10:40:13]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day project the Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2011. [[Registration number 8122]] Before the vote. Dear colleagues, at the suggestion of the committee head, we once introduced this project, and it did not raise the required number of votes. Then we moved on to making appropriate decisions regarding individual commemorative dates for individuals of special importance. Now we're asking questions about the decision. With that in mind, please identify yourself. Registration number 8122. [[10:41:06]] For 252 Decision taken. As far as the bill is concerned, the honourable colleagues are the draft law on the list of items that are exempt from the payment of duties in connection with the organisation and the holding of the final part of the 2012 European football championship in Ukraine -- I think we should propose to the government that they decipher the codes that are specifically meant. When it comes to the subjects that are needed for the European Championship, the Supreme Council is likely to meet and support the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So I'm asking you to prepare an appropriate appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers to clarify the draft of this law, because in this way it didn't get the required number of votes to support it. Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland" and the "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" faction, in accordance with the Rules, require a 30-minute recess to be announced for consultations. At the same time, through complex consultations, previous initiators agreed to make a statement, requiring a recess. Please, Andrew Kožemiakin, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u16	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, the declaration of the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland" in the Supreme Council. Yesterday, at the Pecher District Court in Kiev, there was an unprecedented situation when, on filthy, unprovoked charges, the court confirmed the alleged legality of the criminal case against Yulia Timoshenko. From a legal point of view, the decision taken by the Pecher Court does not have any legal basis and is a demonstration of legal status. From the point of view of common sense, the court was merely creating the visibility of Julius Timoshenko's case, and in fact demonstrated a willingness to carry out any order of authority without reservation. Yesterday’s decision by the Pecher District Court was in fact a parade under the rule of law, the Constitution, and the laws of Ukraine. The entire judicial system of Ukraine has completely gone into manual administration, and any decisions of the courts today are made solely for the needs of the political power. The authorities are trying to mask their political dispute against their opponents in the fight against corruption. All those in charge of the course of the open criminal case against Yuri Lucenka have long since found out that there were no grounds for his arrest. For a year now, Igor Didenko, Anatoly Makarenko, Taras Shepítenko, and a number of government officials have been on guard for nothing but conscientiously carrying out their duties and protecting the interests of the State. The investigators themselves, knowing that these people were innocent, have repeatedly overqualified cases, but with the hands of courts of various institutions they are stubbornly held in prison. Clearly, then, when the deputies of our faction went to the Pecher Court, we had no illusions, we knew that waiting for justice from this institution was in vain, just as we did not expect justice from the Kyiv Court of Appeal. What is Timoshenko accused of? She is accused of allegedly exceeding her authority and allegedly causing damage to the state. In fact, investigators deliberately falsify a criminal case against the ex-Prime Minister. Julius Timoshenko is accused of approving government directives, but the investigators persist in ignoring the conclusion of the acting prosecutor - general’s deputy, which states that Julia Timoshenko acted solely within the limits of her authority. This was confirmed in his letter and by the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Mr. Lavrinović, dated 7 April 2011. In view of the obvious facts, the court had to recognize the illegality of the discovery of the criminal case against Timoshenko, yet another decision was taken. We claim that we will never accept this and we will never let democracy be buried. That is why we will appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, which we believe will be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u17	Finish up, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u18	Which, we believe, will make a just and just decision on the illegality of the discovery of a criminal case against Julia Timoshenko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u19	Thank you, too. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on public procurement. The rapporteur is the head of the Economic Policy Committee Committee, Alexy Vitaliyovich Plonikov. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u20	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine’s draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on public procurement was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 15, 2011. A committee in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has reached 212 proposals from legislators. They're all included in the correlation table. Of the 212 proposals, 104 are rejected. Other proposals are included in whole or in part. The table also contains technical legal corrections. In general, the bill is aimed at simplifying the order of execution by purchasing domestic industrial enterprises, which will increase their competitiveness in both domestic and foreign markets. The project will also allow for the unlocking of purchases by buyers, ensure the proper conditions for public purchases and address current and problematic issues of customer enforcement in the area of public procurement of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement. After considering the proposals made by the General Legal Authority of 12.05 p.m. In 11 years, the committee proposes to take into account the sixth sentence of paragraph 2 of the Final Provisions. In paragraph 2 of the Final Provisions, replace the words "in accordance with this law" with the words "in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement." In addition, the project is proposed to reduce the discipline of the purchasers in the procurement process, to strengthen administrative responsibility for violations of legislation, to simplify the order of business purchases, to clarify the grounds for the application of the procedure, and something else. In particular, this applies to obtaining approval from an authorized authority in the area of public procurement, establishing a comprehensive list of cases that may change conditions, and other things that have a bearing on improving the procurement procedure, on unlocking the situation that has arisen now, and on ensuring that everything is peaceful, transparent and in line with the national interests of Ukraine. Thus, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Economic Policy proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on public procurement in the second reading and in general. [[Registration number 7532]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, we're going to make amends if there's such an insistence. Amendment number one. Damn, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 2a, Vetwicki? No, it's not. Amendment 3, Anatoly Kinach? No, it's not. Correction 4th, Savechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u22	8th Amendment, Savechenko? No, it's not. 9th, Savechenko. Don't insist. Vetwicki, 10th. No, it's not. Stick, 14th. Don't insist. Savechenko, 15th. Workman, 16th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u23	I have a question for the committee representative. Dear colleagues, at the Committee on Economic Policy meeting this bill was discussed, I was present. And the text that was being considered, and the amendments that were on the committee that we're being handed out right now, are at least one third different. Let's say your decision on this amendment, I know for a fact that the committee took the text at a meeting where it meant that the amendment should be supported. Now that last-minute text in the Supreme Council last Thursday, the amendment is rejected. Please explain the situation. Is it that you had another committee meeting, or have we been given different texts, or is it a forgery, or what? The text that was considered on the committee, and the text that is now being considered, differs by a third, colleagues! In particular, five key amendments I made. I submitted a letter on this subject to the head of the committee and a letter to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u24	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u25	Okay. Am I starting to answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u26	Yes, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u27	The committee considered the bill twice at its meeting. On April 5, where you were present. In view of the fact that since April 5, the legal authorities have sent very many legal observations, it has been decided to gather again on May 11 and make some adjustments. You were not present at the May 11th meeting. I mean, I don't know, it's not the committee's function to invite you, it's on the committee's advertising website, it's your absolute right to go to our committee or not to go. That's why if you weren't at the second session, maybe you didn't find any things in this table.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, fellow worker insists that 16 amendments, which have been rejected, be voted down. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:51:47]] For 20 Correction not supported. 17th, Jaroslav Suhi, amendment. No, it's not. 18th. Savechenko. Savechenko, 21st. Savechenko, 22nd. Stick, 23rd. Kinach, 25th. Twenty-four, she's accounted for. He's a workman. Please, there's a machine gun.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I'd like to rephrase. First, there is no invitation to an additional committee, but there is no such thing as my belief in what was going on. One second. This is a direct violation of the Rules, the fact that you have adopted amendments by this decision to the Committee, the new amendments that substantially extend the rules adopted in the first reading, are a violation of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u30	I ask the committee to take this note into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u31	We'll take it from here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u32	Jojik, 29th Amendment. Jaroslav Jojik does not insist. Nazbank. 35 revisions. Is there a representative of the National Bank? None. Savechenko doesn't insist. Savechenko doesn't insist. Yes, workman Lesia, 43 revisions. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u33	I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u34	That's how I vote for the 43rd Amendment of the Forest Robot. The committee turned her down. [[10:53:53:53]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. Vetwicki, 46th Amendment? Forty-seven repairs, Jojik? No, it's not. Fedorchuk, 48 corrections? No, it's not. Vladimir Yavorowski, 49th Amendment Volodymyr Alexanderovich, do you insist on 49 amendments? No, it's not. Royal, 50? No, it's not. Corge, 51st? No, it's not. Suskevich, 52nd? No, it's not. Yes, Savechenko does not insist. Suskevich? Don't insist. 54th, I'm sorry, Mikola Tomenko. 54 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to the amendment of colleague Landik. I see it as a positive point, but it gives me a warning and I insist on confirming it. Dear colleagues, we've seen a lot of novelties in our legislative initiatives, but I take it as such an administrative miracle that we can now use the budget without tender procedures if there's a mandate from the President's Administration. We have the President's Administration that it's some kind of body that shares the budget? I'm reading you the amendment: "goods and services." - I continue to miss - "for cultural, artistic, tourism and festivals of social, political, cultural or historical significance, the urgency and purpose of which are determined by the Administration of the President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers." Guys, we're gonna get this far! That an official of the President's Administration would write an order that these budget funds could be used without tender procedures. So my suggestion is that this can only be done by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. Then the Cabinet of Ministers, as a collective body, assumes responsibility for the matter. What's it like to be instructed and instructed by the President's Administration? So I think that either we need to edit this amendment, or we need to eliminate it, it goes against the general logic and authority of the Ukrainian authorities. So I'd like to put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? There's an offer to put this amendment to confirm. But the word "administrative" is deleted, because it's absolute logic, because "administrative," it's people who don't know who's going to give the instructions. And leave the "President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers" and vote on this amendment, and that's the right thing to do. So I put to the vote Amendment 54 at the end of these words, "On behalf of the President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine," the word "Administrative" is deleted. Please vote. [[10:56:56]] For 259. The amendment is confirmed with clarification: the word "Administrative" is deleted. Yes, Amendment 70. Does the National Bank insist on it? Savechenko doesn't insist. Jojik, 72nd. No, it's not. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich, 74th. Oh, no? No, it's not. Jojik, no. Savechenko. Yes, it doesn't. Yes, Tomenko Mikola, 95th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, this is about the principle of Article 10 and I think it's one of the things that will be actively analysed by experts and the media. This is a basic, I think, article in this case, because it's called "Publication of Information on Procurement." If today we follow the logic of the authors who suggested in this article that we practically subtract, this is paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 8, paragraph 10, paragraph 11, paragraph 13, 14 and 15, then we will not actually get information on how the purchase took place. So you actually delete the information about: the supply disclosure protocol, the rejection of bids, the participants' reports on the outcome of the purchase procedure, the results of the previous qualification, the trade cancellation report, the results of the purchase process, and so on. [[Why They Were Rejected]] How Can I Accuse? So I'm involved in solicitation, how can I charge the illegality of these procedures if this information is not published? I think we should leave the law in force and not delete these articles, because actually the public and the buyers won't know about it. I insist that my amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u38	Yes, please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u39	Committee position: The committee does not consider this amendment to be appropriate. The text that's proposed is more accurate, it's consistent with the concept of the ideology of these changes. So there's an offer to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, the vote is amended by 95, the author is Mikola Tomenko. [[10:59:53]] For-74. Correction not supported. Andrew Shevchenko, 97th, do you insist on her? I can't see. Yes, Vasadez, 105th? No, it's not. Yes, Savechenko does not insist. 123 Amendment, Xenia Lapina. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u41	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, I must point out that a table is extremely unwarranted. This amendment of mine is actually accounted for. Because I'm proposing to rule out the exclusion of part two. In fact, the committee listened. But it is written that it is rejected. And like, interestingly, then he's going to process the committee and the scientific expertise, and the legal administration of this text. Is that how you ruled it out or not? Declined or Not Declined? And by the way, there's a lot of change that's written "partially counted." Which, in fact, is partially unaccounted for, no one knows. I ask that we stop at these amendments so that we can at least find out, so it is counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u42	Well, I like that you found your amendment in this text. This is certainly positive. And as you suggest, it's rejected, but the fact that the committee there supported the first reading and, accordingly, in the first reading it's taken into account, well, we think it's counted. But if we put it in the table that your editorial is rejected, well, rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u43	So we'll be on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u44	No, it's rejected, it's rejected. Declined.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u45	Yeah, one minute. So we should vote her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u46	No, well, she's rejected, she's rejected. It's ideologically considered, but here it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u47	Right. Now 154th. Xenia Mikhailna, microphone. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u48	For example, I don't know what the result is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u49	Overruled.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u50	That Ideologically accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u51	Rejected, is the first-reading editor stored? Is It Saved? There's no first reading in the third column. Let the reporter explain where that part of the friend is to be ruled out. Where are those words?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u52	Overruled. Well, come on, I'll say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u53	Yeah, no, that's how we need it to be counted. Well, that makes sense. If it's rejected, it's got to be the right a column. If she's not here, then she's counted. You're making sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u54	We have the right column. If it's rejected, well, we don't put the right column. We don't have this column if it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u55	Okay. Consider, then. 154 amendment, Xenia Lapina, microphone. 154th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u56	I want to point out that there's another 130 amendments on the road that are written "partially counted." Again, I don't understand where it's partially accounted for. It says, "Subparagraph 13 delete." Has he been expelled or has he been expelled? How can this item be partially counted, please tell? Either we've been expelled or we haven't been expelled. So it's either counted or rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u57	The 13 paragraphs are edited, so that we can think of this as partial, it's reduced in part. And we're going to assume that part of your amendment is taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u58	Xenia Leapina. Xenia Mikhailno, let's say 154, she's here already.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u59	154 amendment, clearly written, rejected. And it's really rejected. It's the only thing I found that's really edited. And I'll explain why I think I insist on this amendment. Notice, it's about publishing information again and again. I insist that we publish not only the price of the contract as before, but also the price of the unit of goods and the amount of the contract. Because very often the game goes directly to the price of a unit of goods. And that's where the main abuses take place. What's the point? Why can't it be published? This is actually the main object around which the purchases are made. How much is it to buy? You can buy cheaper, that is, fewer very expensive cars there, for example, and publish that a million dollars is actually spent on one car. You can do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u60	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u61	From the committee's point of view, the first reading is more correct. It's a collective thought that went to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u62	I'll bet you a vote of 154. The author is Kseniya Lapina. [[11:05:06]] For-44 Correction not supported. Amendment 161 of Xenia Lupina. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u63	161 revisions are actually counted, once again. Although it's written that it's rejected. I don't insist. It's just a committee doing its job very carelessly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u64	And 164th, Kseniya Mikhailna?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u65	164, I insist. 164 amendments are the same in other deputies, and I insist, because the words "as an exception" are the words behind corruption. It stood, stood, and would stand until the exception was in order and in no way formalized. In fact, exceptions can be made at any given step and then we lose billions of dollars of government funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u66	The committee believes that the first reading is more correct, which is why this amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u67	I'm betting on a vote of 164, the author is Kseniya Lapina. [[11:06:29]] For-22. Correction not supported. Amendment 165, Lesa the Workman. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u68	Colleagues, I insist on this amendment, this is a key amendment at all. What you're proposing is you're proposing a formulation that allows you to buy with one participant under special economic or social conditions. Do you want to explain that we have special socio-economic conditions that occur every day, every spring and every year? And for me, given the rate of dissipation of this budget, and the price of 30 billion dollars per year of government spending, this rule needs to be removed as soon as possible, otherwise those who don't vote for it now are voting for a corruption bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u69	What are the extraordinary socio-economic conditions, we have separate legislation, it refers to there, God forbid, military action, to technological catastrophes, to other things. So that's what this means, and that's why this amendment is rejected, and we think that the first reading is more correct. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, we will now vote. Since Mikli Tomenko’s amendment actually applies to the same problem, Mikli Tomenka’s microphone will then be voted on separately. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I support the logic of the People's Deputy Lesi Orobec in the part where they think that Alexy Vitaliovich misinterpreted, because the text speaks of "special economic and social conditions", not extraordinary. We have legislation that describes an extraordinary situation of a technological nature, it's in the law, and it's clearly there. Now I have a question. We have 17 numbers. Do we have special economic and social conditions in the country? Of course there is. Either Greek, or sugar, or some other disaster, we have special circumstances every day. So now I have a question: "Who determines these special circumstances?" There's no law. So it's very clear that we have to go back to an active editorial that clearly says, "..unless there is an urgent need for immediate elimination of the consequences of technological, natural and humanitarian emergencies", which is also described by legislation. That's why I'm also proposing, in fact, that we have one amendment, subtraction or subtraction, you're saying, "in connection with the emergence of special economic, social conditions," because we live in special social, economic leave every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, do you understand the offer? The committee did not support these proposals. At the same time, please identify yourself in the session room. I'm betting on the vote on amendment 165, by Lesa Roberec. [[11:09:41]] Z-62 Correction not supported. So 168th is not going to be put to the vote, they're actually the same. Amendment 167, Xenia Lapina. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u73	In fact, this amendment refers to the same subject, simply in a different way proposing an editorial solution. Unfortunately, the hall didn't support it, I don't insist. But I think that the hall is now taking a step towards making things worse with government purchases.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u74	Xenia Mikhailvna, and 174 of which is then your amendment on page 65.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u75	In fact, this applies to the same subject, only to the fifth paragraph. And again, it just doesn't make any sense to insist, but I'm stressing that the editorials that were supposed to have somehow transparentized the purchases were actually rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u76	179 amendment, Lesa the Ripper. Are you insisting on her? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u77	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u78	Don't insist. 183 Amendment, Jaroslav Suhi. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u79	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I when I got a comparative table, saw that here in my amendment, it counted, but omitted one sentence: " The participant may, and in the case of the previous payment, must." I propose to include this phrase: " And in case of previous payment, I should."because it, well, editorially, appears to have fallen out so that we don't have any trouble when the law is signed in general. So it's about making extra payments because of the cost or the amount of work done. We have to fix this and we can correct it by inserting a sentence: "and in case of a previous payment." After saying, "10 million dollars a participant can."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, have you got the offer? I will now put to the vote, please note, the confirmation of this amendment with the additions that Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi has said. This is amendment 183. I'm betting on a vote to confirm the amendment by adding words after the word "maybe," and in case of a previous payment. Please vote. [[11:12:18]] For the 250. Correction accepted. Correction is now 185, Xenia Lapina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u81	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, "To Ukraine!".. I'll point out that this refers to a change in the contract made after the competition, and the question of how different this contract can be from the offer of competitive bidding. There's always corruption here, too. I suggest you can't be different by the amount and there can't be a reduction in the number of units of purchase. If that happens, once again, there's an offer to buy 10 cars. The company wins and then sells one car at the price of a million who have announced the competition. And by our law, without my amendment, such an agreement will be absolutely legal. This is direct and pure corruption. It's just a deception of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u82	Puts to the vote the 185th amendment. The committee rejected it, the author’s argument of the amendment had just been answered. [[11:13:47]] For-54 Correction not supported. 187th Amendment. Xenia Leapina. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u83	Well, actually, this goes on and on, which is different from the contract, actually, the proposals that were won by one or the other contractor. It's about what's allowed here, that if you improve the quality of the object there might be a change in the contract without an increase in the amount, but with a reduction in the quantity. This is the same example. We're putting out a ten-in-a-row competition, we're selling one Mercedes. Not a question of "mercedes" of a better quality than "sorry." But the state needed 10 damages, and all the other contestants offered their price for 10 damages. As a result, the state gets one Mercedes and it's impossible to charge it. It will be considered, without my amendment, that this is a legitimate decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u84	Please. Is there a committee's reasoning on this? Microphone, please turn on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u85	This is an amendment. This is a very complex example that our colleague built. Anyway, if someone's buying Damage, they're going to buy Damage, they don't have to replace it with Mercedes. Let's not insert this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u86	I'm betting on the vote for Amendment 187 to Kseniya Llapina. The committee turned her down. The author's argument was that you heard, Your Honor. [[11:15:36]] For-38 Correction is not supported. Amendment 190. Xenia Leapina, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u87	Well, that's actually the same subject. I insist that it should be the price of a unit of goods of work, services, first of all, published, and second of all, unalterable and well-known in the process of making a contract. My amendment has been rejected, and so again only the amount determined is controlled, and the unit of the product will vary. This will lead to abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u88	That's the vote for Xenia Lupina, 190. [[11:16:35]] For-36 Correction not supported. Amendment 197. Thaddeev, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 202, Uljana Mistpane. No, it doesn't. Thus, fellow believers, all the amendments have been considered. Please prepare yourself for making a decision. Please, after. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on public procurement. [[Registration number 7532]] This is a committee proposal. The chief legal office called for this bill with observations, some of which were taken into account by a committee that was not included. Taking this information into account, I am voting on the proposal for a second reading and, as a whole, on the draft law of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on public procurement. Please vote. [[11:18:05]] For 231 The law is passed. Alexander Bondar, please. By factions, please: Region Party – 179, “BUT – Fatherland” – 0, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 2, Communists – 25, “Reforms for the Future” – 0, “The People's Party” – 20, non-fractional – 5. Please, Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u89	Alexander Bondar, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I understand that after the vote, there is no one else to turn to. But I want to remind the majority of the people, as a matter of fact, they fought the solicitation mafia once, they changed the laws that the President then vetoed. Now it's like this mafia is gone, and all these rules are working again. You look at the information site, there's this web site on the Internet, there's this shopping site that's going on in this direction right now. And instead of closing all these gaps in legislation, the government is passing a bill, and most of them are supporting it, where we can't even see anything on the Internet right now. We're not going to have any information about what's going on in this area. And that's what the majority is voting for. I think most people have now taken responsibility for the "deriban" that is going to be going on with the budget. I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u90	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the violation of the requirements of State Export Control legislation is under consideration. [[Registration number 8211]] I would like to vote on the motion to consider this bill with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:19:52]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the State Export Control Service, Rechetilov Igor Valentinović. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee for the Legislative Security of Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Yes, the committee, please let the reporter be. Ah, Vladimir Lechchenko! I'm sorry, Your Honor, this is my mistake, Vladimir Alexiyovich Lechchenko will be a co-reporter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u91	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The proposed draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the violation of the requirements of State Export Control is called upon to eliminate existing competition between the provisions of article 333 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code and article 212 of the Code on Administrative Violations and to ensure partial decriminalization of export control offences. The aim of the project is to delimit the liability of natural persons for offences in the field of State export control between criminal and administrative matters. The adoption of the law will increase the effectiveness of law enforcement measures in the field of State export control and increase the responsibility of natural persons for violating the requirements of legislation in this field. The excessiveity of the standards of article 333 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code has led to the proliferation of criminal liability even to minor violations of the requirements of State export control. This, in turn, complicates the process of protesting, makes it impossible for individuals who have committed administrative offences to be recognized by them because of fear of being brought to criminal responsibility. The conclusion given by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office contains a number of proposals that will allow for improvement of the draft law and can be taken into account in its development. But to accept the full decriminalization of State export control offences, it is suggested, is impossible, as it is one of the mandatory procedures in the practice of the world’s leading states. In addition, illegal arms transfers, military equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u92	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u93	In view of what has been said, I ask your support for the adoption of the bill on the basis of the commission of the Main Committee to prepare it for its second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u94	Thank you, too. Igor Valentinovich, please sit down. Vladimir Alexiyovich Leschenko, Secretary of the Committee Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u95	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legislative Security and Law Protection has been considered by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the violation of legislation in the field of State export control]] [[Registration number 8211]] The bill proposes to amend article 212-4 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and article 333 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code in order to bring their standards into line with the requirements of article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on State Control of International Transfers of Goods of Military Purpose and Double Use. However, during the discussion of the bill, members of the committee noted that it needed to be further developed, particularly in the part of establishing administrative responsibility for violations of State export legislation, article 212-4 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the decriminalization of violations provided for in article 333 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine as non-socially dangerous and therefore not to be criminalized. After reviewing the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that its subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further development. This is also the view of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u96	Thank you, too, Vladimir Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? If so, please sign up. Please state the names of the national MPs. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, this year has been 10 years since the adoption of the Criminal Code. Usually, an analysis of the changes that have been made since the adoption of the Code has shown that those standards are either dead or not being applied or are being amended in the way that article 333 of the Criminal Code has now been amended. Think of what is the limit between administrative delinquency and criminal delinquency. In one case it's the transfer of goods, and in another case it's the transfer of these goods. So transfer is a crime, and the fact that this transfer is done is an administrative offense. I fully agree with the view of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, who has concluded that this bill must be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development, because it does not fully meet any of the requirements of criminal law. Moreover, I believe that this is a harmful and erroneous criminalization of an action that will create even bigger problems, and I strongly insist that changes to the Criminal Code can only be made as complex as any other legislation. I think this bill should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I put to the vote the proposal first in accordance with the Legislation on Adoption on the basis of the bill. At the same time, I would like to remind you once again that the committee has decided to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to work on this project. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is appropriate to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Thus, the first is the proposal to adopt the draft Act, amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which violates the requirements of State Export Control legislation. [[11:28:28]] For 221 The bill was not adopted as a basis. I am voting on the second sentence: the return of the subject to the right of the legislative initiative to work. Please vote. [[11:28:55]] For 256 Decision taken. Yes, the Bill on the Development and Consumption of Biological Fuels is under review. Yes, in short, please suggest that I put this proposal to the vote. [[11:29:31]] For 218. Decision taken. The reporter and co-rapporteur is the head of the Committee, Gregory Kaletnik. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich, you have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u99	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Ukraine’s Bill on the Development of Production and Consumption of Biological Fuels has been developed to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling. The point was that according to the adopted Rules, additions, also the adopted new Tax Code, should be made by separate laws. Hence, from the first version of this bill, all articles relating to the Tax Code have been deleted today. And in this bill, which I'm going to report today, it's only about regulatory regulation of the biological fuel market and creating the necessary conditions to stimulate production and consumption of biofuels in Ukraine. Diversification of our nation's ways of providing oil and natural gas, replacing traditional fuels with renewables, remains the most relevant in Ukraine and the world as a problem of energy and economic development. Ukraine is far too far behind these questions from other countries. At present, more than 14 percent of the world’s renewable energy sources are already in use. And the European Union directives by 2020 provide for more than 20 percent of them to be proved by the European Union. In Ukraine we now have less than 1 percent, and this is usually the case with the burning of straw and wood. What was done, long ago, in the distant centuries, was done to all of our predecessors, who didn't know it was biofuel. Today, one of the most promising renewable sources of energy is fuel: bioethanol, biodiesel, biogas. But they're mixed gasoline. You're the diesel fuel that these biofuels use as a component. Ukraine can replace nearly 30 percent of the oil fuel consumed in the country as soon as possible. The use of biological fuels in Ukraine should be considered both as a means of diversifying energy sources and as a means of reducing dependence on imported energy, costing more than $30 billion annually. As well as the stabilization process in the financial and economic activities of the Ukrainian agro-industrial complex. The main advantages of biofuel production include the creation of new jobs and sources of financial resources in rural areas, environmental protection, reliability and availability of supplies, cost savings, and almost twice the cost of own resources. In general, the draft law provides a comprehensive solution to all issues related to the development and consumption of biofuels from renewable energy sources. As well as international investors working in one legislative field under the single rules of the game. So this law harmonizes the development of the biofuel market in Ukraine with the legislation of the European Union. It is also appropriate to say that the incentives needed to develop this are no longer so significant. Since the price of oil fuels, we are all witnesses and it is growing further, it is so high that today the production of biofuels can virtually be done without the aid without which the development of this sector was previously impossible. Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u100	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u101	Last sentence. Considered the draft bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u102	Yes, thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Yuri Litwin, faction of the People's Party, passes on the right to speak to Oleg Zarubinski. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u103	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I have taken the floor because I understand how important the author of this bill has raised. In my time I was the author of another bill, it is now the law of Ukraine that applies to the green tariff in Ukraine, which has actually enabled the whole series to develop, as was rightly said, alternative, well, I prefer renewable energy sources. Because everyone understands that neither oil nor gas is renewable. And sooner or later, I think sooner, they'll end. The green tariff bill really enabled small hydropower to develop, and it started to develop pretty good in Ukraine, solar energy, wind power stations, windmills, so-called windmills. But a fairly serious segment that the state has to support, in the context of alternative renewable energy, is really biofueling. And it was true that Gregory Kaletnik said that today, he said, less than 1 percent, I'll make it clear, 0.7 percent is what Ukraine is producing today from alternative energy sources -- 0.7 percent. It was said that in Germany the figure was 20 percent. And just for the sake of analogy, I want to give you Norway, which has 4th place in the world for 4 million people, but alternative energy sources use 21 percent today, although there doesn't seem to be any economic need. So this bill contributes to the economy, it promotes ecology, it helps us not to be barbarians in terms of nature. Thank you. I think it's worth supporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u104	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I call upon everyone, both opposition and authority, to support this bill. The point is that not for the first time in this rostrum and I personally, and the Ukrainian national deputies to me and this vocation spoke of Ukraine having every chance of becoming Kuwait. John Grigorovich Kirilenko was once speaking, he's not in the room right now, he's pretty good at indicating how we're going to increase the number of seedland as we increase the number of jobs. And what's important is how much we can spend on fuel-oil materials. Yes, there is a group of people who will certainly not like it, who have some big capitals on it. But we have to think about the future, about Ukraine. The cheaper the fuel, the cheaper the gas and the solar system, the cheaper the price of the produce that is being produced and consumed. But I went out to this rostrum to sharpen the question on the other side. Dear colleagues, we have, including in Ternopils, and we have factories that are ready and have installations installed at the expense of foreign investors and investors. But look, please, I don't know who from the government today is there, who to talk to. What has become of the Spirt Branch! In two years, the derebean’s actual reorganization led to the fact that the property of Ukrainian spirit factories, formerly state property, was in one hand. Ukrispirt, which can't be privatized, is by some monopoly centralized. Who will rule? Who will be the leader?Oh, my God! Who will carry out national policies to fill this law with real meaning? I think the government should immediately go back to this topic and correct all the filth that's been done around Ukrainian government liquor factories. Otherwise the law won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u106	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u107	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Association for Clean Agriculture and Safe Environment. Dear National Deputies! I want to start with the words that my predecessor finished. That this law won't work. He won't be able to work for another reason. Because the government is not interested. What is more, we have suggested how to increase fertility only by using microwave technology from 25 percent to 50 percent. The Prime Minister won't even be able to read! Well, you can't in the government appreciate any of this. Do you think this law will work? What's more, things that duplicate the position of the law on alternative fuels. And this bill duplicates it in many parts. There's the same definition. Let's also look at the benefits of this bill. There is an attempt to involve the state in promoting the production of diesel biofuels, and in Kiev and in cities, more than 500,000 are being encouraged. And in recreational zones, in 2012 there are already plans for such proportions in the implementation of biofuels in general to implement traditional fuels, to develop as much as 5 percent, in 2013-10, in 2014 and 2015, to lead to 30. That's positive, but will it work as a rule of law? I'm going to vote in favour, for example, but I'm convinced that this kind of legislation will not work, unfortunately, too. We need to hear this question, we need to scream SOS on this, we need to stop sitting on a gas shot in the Russian Federation. But to do that, you have to put it in the teeth of the business that this government is holding today -- a big business that depends on the Russian oligarchy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u108	Honorable National MPs, discussion of the matter. One minute, we're done here. At the same time, the MP, Taras Cranville, one minute, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u109	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" carefully studied this bill, we had serious claims to it, both in terms of duplication, and in terms of terminology, etc. But we are convinced that this can be solved before the second reading. The key is a very serious, pressing problem of energy security, security and fuel cost reduction, which entails lower costs and the entire food basket. In this regard, we made a unanimous decision to vote in favour of the bill. But very serious problems are outside the bill. It takes government decisions for this bill to work. Further decisions are needed to ensure that we do not overwhelm the earth as much as possible, as a result of the cultivation of appropriate technical crops, and so forth. That's why this bill is just the first step, and there's still a lot of work to be done. Particularly important is the subject of biogas.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare to make your decision. A proposal for adoption by the committee is put to the vote on the basis of the bill. The Chief Expert Office believes that the bill needs further work. In the event of a positive decision, I am convinced that the committee will take into account the recommendations of scientific and scientific management. Yes, Your Honor, I ask you to vote on the adoption of the Bill on the Development and Consumption of Biological Fuels. [[Registration number 6524]] Please vote. [[11:43:10]] For 278 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a draft of the Agrarian Houses Act in Ukraine under consideration. At the same time, there is a letter from the committee and a request from the drafters of the bill to postpone consideration of the matter. Is there no objection? You don't have to vote. Then we postpone this bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, it is proposed that you consider the draft Law on Trusting Financial Asset Management. [[Registration number 2167]] Here was a suggestion to consider this issue by a reduced procedure. I'm putting her to a vote, this proposal. Please vote. [[11:44:07]] For 212 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine’s national deputy, Konovaluk Valerius Ilchi. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko. Please. Reporter from the committee. Dear colleagues, I am the secretariat and heads of the committees who pay attention to this problem. Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u111	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like, of course, to thank the subject of the legislative initiative, unfortunately, that Valérie Konovaluk is missing. But I would like to report on the decision of the committee that discussed this bill at its meeting, which was drafted by the author in March 2008. And I want to prove to you that this bill, first of all, provides for a legal framework for the conduct of trust operations and financial asset management and the basis for the implementation of professional trust management activities. According to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, on March 26, 2008, the bill could be adopted as a basis, but taking into account the following observations and the main points made, which, according to our committee, also coincide. I would like to point out that before the bill there are a lot of significant remarks both by our committee and by a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. For example, the term “trust management, ” but it is not provided for by our Civil Code, but there are other mechanisms for managing property and so forth. It should be noted that the bill does not implement the provisions of part two of article 4 of the Civil Code, which establishes that if the subject of the legislative initiative has submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law governing civil relations, otherwise than that specified in the Code, he is obliged to submit a draft Law amending the Code at the same time. The bill also sees inadequacy with the current laws of Ukraine that regulate professional activity in the stock market. In addition, the project’s position contains some internal disagreements. All our warnings are detailed in the accompanying documents that are prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u112	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u113	We also have the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, signed by Deputy Prime Minister Sergey Tihypco, who also presented us with documents pointing out that the bill should be finalized. Based on the content of the Government’s conclusion, it may be concluded that it needs to be redrafted, a bill, and returned to the author. Following the December 1st Committee last year, it was decided to recommend that the bill be returned to the authors of the legislative initiative. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u114	Dear National Deputies! If anyone insists on discussing this matter, please sign in. Yes, please state the names of the national MPs. Vladimir Karpuk passes on the right to speak to Stanislav Arzhewithin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u115	Dear National Deputies! Our committee has usually made a correct decision, considering the author that this bill should be sent for further work. In large numbers, it would have to be rejected. The bill has been in its fourth year. In addition to this bill, there was registered a government alternative bill, which was rejected, and this law. And we hoped he would. These two bills will be finalized and conceptually submitted by the author in exchange for another. This did not happen, so he lost his relevance in such an editorial way, and the technology of this bill is now in conflict with many of the bills regulating financial markets. Over the course of four years, we have made many changes, and especially the inadequacy of the Civil Code in key terms usually indicates that it simply needs to be rejected or fundamentally changed. Unclearly defined subjects of trust management. So, for example, how does it go with the financial assets transferred to the office? For example, property that becomes the subject of financial asset management. How to deal with property that. Arrested? How to deal with property when it has been transferred to a trusted society and started. Bankruptcy proceedings have begun. It's all of the key things, of course, they're not prescribed. It's not clear, for example, why a trustee is not allowed to keep his funds on the deposit in that bank he's serving. Undefined owners. The state has a right -- it has no right; municipal property can have -- there can't be a lot of things. And most importantly, this bill cancels. You remember that decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the trust of societies and, you remember, the problems with trusts that have been in our country. It's all "dependent," and if we accept this bill, we'll cancel this decree, which. The Cabinet of Ministers, which, well, it's like the last facility that regulates these problems that were already in our Ukrainians. So, of course, on a large scale, this bill should be rejected and the author should submit a new bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, no one insists on speaking? I remind you of the committee's conclusion: to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. Dear colleagues, what are you yelling at? Do not come to work on time, and then you present some claims! No screams, no screams. Please, Konovaluk, microphone. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, indeed, the Supreme Council is working well enough, so I didn't expect my bill to be considered in half an hour. I want to thank all the people's deputies for drawing attention to this topic. I agree that this bill was drafted and introduced in 2008, but the question today is serious enough. So I'm convinced that all the proposals that we're going to involve in the new edition, and the committee, and the scientific and expert management, and other structures, I'm convinced that this is a matter that really needs to be addressed in a more balanced way. And I think that the economy of the country that is today needs additional financial resources, additional circulation costs, that's what it requires. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Trust Management of Financial Assets. [[Registration number 2167]] Please identify yourself. [[11:52:14]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. I then put to the vote the committee’s proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. Dear colleagues, let's follow the Rules. [[11:52:39]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, there is another bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on the issue of bonds by international financial institutions]] The author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Poluniev Yuri Volodymyrovich, and co-reporter, the head of the committee Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Let's make a decision to consider this issue in a simplified way, and then we'll take a break. Is there no objection? Please vote. [[11:53:26]] For 210 Decision taken. Yuri Volodymyrovich, please. And from the committee to prepare who will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u119	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets proposes to grant international financial institutions, such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Finance Corporation, to which the bill is primarily concerned, the right to issue in Ukraine their own bonds, which are nominated in the national currency of Ukraine, bracelets, with the aim of financing these organizations with priority economic sectors, primarily municipal, transport infrastructure projects, etc. [[on the issue of bonds by international financial institutions]] Funding by international financial institutions through the issuance of bonds in Ukraine’s borders will increase investment in these priority sectors. To this end, a bill has been drafted, and its adoption will allow for the expansion of the portfolio of these projects that are very important to Ukraine in the near future. Issues of issuance and circulation of securities, including bonds, are regulated by the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act. Two parts of the fifth part of article 3 of this law may be civil trafficking, in particular, business bonds, government bonds in Ukraine, local bonds, so it is necessary to change the position of this law and allow international financial organizations to issue their bonds in Ukraine, from which the funds will be used exclusively in Ukraine to finance these organizations of their projects in the sectors I have talked about. Taking into account the above, the only solution to this issue is to expand the scope of the bond issue and include international financial organizations. Bill 7258, please accept as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u120	Thank you, sit down, please. Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u121	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The adoption of this bill will result in the creation of favourable conditions for additional investment resources in Ukraine's economy. In fact, the project is very simple. Yes, the basic law introduces a new category of issuers, international financial organizations, and accordingly a new category of emission securities, bonds from international financial organizations. The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine supports the draft law, taking into account comments on the existence of bonds exclusively without documentary form, editorial details, changes in terminology, and the need to channel the funds received to the development of the national economy, etc. In its conclusion, the National Bank of Ukraine makes some comments and suggestions on the law, but it does not object to its adoption. It should be noted that experts estimate that the release by international financial institutions of their bonds in other countries is a fairly common practice in the world, allowing for additional investment in the real sector. Thus, the draft law was considered at a meeting of the committee on December 15 and recommended in the first reading by Bill 7258. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I know exactly what this bill needs to vote for, and I will prove to you why. Well, first of all, we know that international organizations are very productive in the securities market through the Cabinet of Ministers. And why not work: two or three prices they get compared to their markets and risk-free because there's a good defender -- the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank. Of course, this is very convenient. Well, it's still half-baked, because they're taking their money to Ukraine. This option predicts when international organizations will mobilize our Ukrainian resources for their programs. And what they said today is that it's going to be in the real economy, unfortunately, there's nothing in the bill. So I think even if I read article 7, which says that an international financial organization that provides financial resources, including Ukraine. What does it say if it mobilizes our funds on the Ukrainian market and rotates them here in Ukraine? I think it's a contradiction. Next. It is unlikely that the bill deliberately does not determine the extent to which these issues will be carried out, perhaps on purpose, that these funds should be placed on the Ukrainian stock exchanges and stored in Ukrainian depositories. I think it's on purpose. The undetermined currency of these funds, that is, the cost at which they will be stored. Perhaps an ineffective form has been chosen by accident. It's a documentary form. I'm going to make, I'm going to read you a conclusion made by the National Bank that signed Arbusov: when this law is passed, international financial organizations have the right to export from Ukraine and already have very limited resources, while increasing the devaluation pressure on the bracelet, which is unacceptable. We have a limited internal market to lend to our economy. I think that such a right is not necessary for international organizations to be granted under such conditions. I'd like to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? That's what I was saying. Please, Gregory Smythech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u125	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. There was no proposal to sign up for the performance. I personally support the entire presence of the previous Arjewithin deputy. I don't always agree with his point of view, in this case I fully support. I don't understand the MPs who passed this law. Who are we working for Ukraine or against Ukraine? I think this law not only harms our nation, but it completely destroys the internal market. Ukraine’s banks still own some of them. You don't realize there's something else going on. It's not about investing in Ukraine, it's not about lending to the Ukrainian economy. The matter goes in that direction to take the remainder of Ukrainian money and leave no one in Ukraine. Don't you get it? You don't realize that Ukraine doesn't control its currency reserves, it doesn't control its monetary policy, it doesn't control it, it doesn't direct questions to national interests? Don't you get it? Whoever votes in favour of this law will be a criminal before the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u126	Who else among the factions insists on speaking out that they have not exercised this right? There is no closing word. Poluniev from Reforms for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u127	Dear Head, I want to say that this is where my colleagues misrepresented the essence of this bill. This is not about any export of funds from Ukraine and so on. And talking about crime is just a misunderstanding of the real and international economy. International organisations finance projects in Ukraine. And in order to pay for Ukrainian goods and Ukrainian services, they bring in dollars that then our borrowers have to pay back. So it's much easier to borrow in the Ukrainian market, where 60 billion free money is sitting in panchos today and channeling it to the development of the Ukrainian municipal economy, which is already falling and falling. And we're sitting here talking about crimes. Please read the literature. And get to know better how European banks function, which are today the largest investor in Ukraine. Then talk about crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on the issue of bonds by international financial institutions]] The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. [[Registration number of this document 7258]] That's how the vote goes. [[12:03:51]] For 215 The decision is not taken. I am betting on the vote on the return of the subject to the right of legislative initiative to work on this project. Yes, dear colleagues, we all need opportunities for democracy to prevail, to take advantage. [[12:04:17]] For 219 The bill was rejected. Here's democracy for you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a recess of up to 12 hours for 35 minutes. The first one will be considered after the interruption of the draft Law on the Circumvention of Petroleum Products. Please be in the workplace at the right time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u129	Yes, please invite the deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to consider a draft of the Oil Commodity Act. The author, a respected colleague, is in the hospital for hospital treatment and asks his colleague to report on this bill, the main author of Vasilko Sergey Volodymyrovich. So let's think about it in a simplified way, is that a question? I'm voting on the proposal, pay attention! On the question of the bill, registration number 7484, under reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:37:22]] For 199 The reporter is Vasilko Sergey Volodymyrovich, co-rapporteur, Vitaly Homutinnik, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u130	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! For the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft law on the organization of the circulation of petroleum products is being submitted. One of the important tasks of the bill is to create obstacles and to destroy criminal schemes from minimization and tax evasion in the oil market. The main task of the project is to establish basic principles of government regulation, to create an effective system for controlling the circulation of petroleum products, to ensure high quality, and to strengthen the fight against illicit production and the circulation of petroleum products in Ukraine. Like the author, and I would ask, honourable deputies, to support this bill in the first reading, and if there are any amendments, we'll take them all into account in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u131	Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u132	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u133	Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u134	A study of the bill, carried out by respectable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, respected colleagues, shows that its standards are designed to create an additional control system for excise duties on petroleum products, by introducing excise tax markers, and by defining additional powers of the State Tax Office for such markings and additional duties and the liability of tax payers for the mentioned tax. The Committee noted the relevance of the issue: strengthening the control of the circulation of petroleum products. The proposed control system is essentially the same as the active branding system of alcohol and tobacco. At the same time, according to the existing Tax Code, all matters relating to tax administration, including the administration of excise duties as a separate tax, must be resolved by amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. And to date, the decisions of the Scientific and Expert Office and the recommendations are similar to those of the committee that need to be decided by the introduction of the Tax Code. So the committee decided at its meeting to recommend that the drafters consider these proposals by amending Bill 8217, a revision to the Tax Code that we are preparing for second reading. And I think for the next plenary week we'll be ready to go out with this complex document for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who insists on participating in this bill? They're desirable. Please sign up. Yes. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next step will be to beat Oleg Zarubinsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u136	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not occurred to you that in the last few years we have only been struggling, either with oil products, with their price, or with the crisis in the financial sector. And one of my previous speeches was about this, too. I personally felt that the more we controlled the oil products, the more they went up in price. And today. I'm a witness. We see the state of our agricultural sector, which requires a large part of diesel fuel and other fuel to be sown, collected, processed and so on and so forth. And unfortunately, all of our not-complex programs are only leading to higher prices. One more question. I feel like we should have a separate law for each item today. And here the committee head Homutinnick rightly said that this was the subject of amendments to the Tax Code, if necessary, in this marking, not a separate law. So what happens is that we're going to have a separate law for each product? If this law were to be adopted with the adoption of this law, if we were to regulate or restore a fair price for oil products, including from oil production, which is going to be converted into our combinations, I would agree with that point of view. I don't think that this law just doesn't make it positive for the oil product or the oil product market, it just increases taxes and translates responsibility into those traders that do. I don't think he's solving the issues, the problems that we have, our economy is facing the price of oil products, ensuring the timely quality of these oil products. No one is responsible, and this law does not provide for sufficient regulation of matters to be such a responsibility. Because you know that complaining about those who are on fuel, that fuel doesn't match the quality of the standard that it's introduced, by marking them, doesn't match that quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u137	Microphone. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u138	And we didn't hear any examples of anyone in this, losing their license, or confiscating any equipment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u139	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u140	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! There is no question that we should arrange for the circulation of petroleum products in our country, as well as much else in our country. It's an axiom. If we speak under this law, it is obvious that we should associate with the head of the profiling committee with the previous statement on what changes are actually and where. There is article 7, paragraph 7.3, of the Tax Code, which is as valid as the entire Tax Code, whether it likes it or not. It is said that the issue of taxation is regulated by the Ukrainian Tax Code and cannot be established or amended by other laws of Ukraine. Well, it's a fact, it's an axiom. You don't have to prove it here. Clearly, then, the subject of the legislative initiative needs to be considered, as well as several other points. For example, look. The bill states that producers and importers of petroleum products are subject to mandatory registration in the State Tax Offices at the place where they are found as taxpayers of excise duty, attention paid by tax legislation and submitted to the Single State Register of Producers and Importers of Petroleum Products. This is article 3 of the bill. However, the project itself does not say anything about the order of keeping this Single State Register of Producers and Importers of Petroleum Products. You know perfectly well that it's going to actually depend on everything. Who's going to do this? How will this register work? One more moment. I can't say. Some doubts arise also in the legal basis of the transaction itself for the sale of excise duty markers to manufacturers and importers of petroleum products. In fact, this can lead to the transfer of funding for appropriate measures to strengthen the proper control of the circulation of petroleum products to whom? For manufacturers and importers of petroleum products that are taxpayers of excise taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u141	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u142	For those who pay the excise tax. And so this is going to be translated into oil users. So it seems to me that if the market for petroleum products is to be organized, but obviously it needs to be done neatly, in a balanced way, so that it doesn't harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u143	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I came back from Kharkiv today, literally at night, and I have to watch all the time, driving through Ukraine, following the gas, and the quality of the fuel. We've reached a strange situation. We've achieved a situation where we have price around Europe, and the quality we have, I'm afraid to offend Africa, I don't know what continent we should call what quality we have. We don't have anyone responsible for quality. Because we have one respectable company connected with the Minister of Fuel and Energy, another, with the Deputy Prime Minister, the third firm is associated with the oligarchs who sit in this room, the fourth, with those who finance healthy political projects and thus no one checks anything. There is at least something positive about this bill. For example, a step has been taken in the European Union, where, since 1996, mandatory labelling of petroleum products has been introduced at the legislative level by a specially developed chemical Euromarker, which is added under the supervision of fiscal authorities prior to the release of petroleum products. This is a serious thing, and it can reduce the negative impact of the smuggling and counterfeit motor fuel, which is now estimated at 30 percent. So if you're estimated to lose about 3 billion dollars a year and plus 5 billion dollars from Livelly. What we got under permission, under the roof of the Tax Administration, which had even called off the court, did not go to the High Court to complain about an appeal, to a fine, to a fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u145	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u146	Thank you. And this is the question that we've created a commission of inquiry. Because of this, I believe that this very proposal is European, it is correct, it needs to be introduced. And with regard to tax changes, then, of course, the Tax Code needs to be amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u147	Thank you. Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u148	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" have studied this bill in detail, and from the very beginning, we really had doubts, or maybe there was a point in supporting it. Its goal is, indeed, noble, indeed, good. But when they looked at and went through all the formulations, in all the methodology, and they understood this and the general context of the oil market, they did make decisions that it was not appropriate to support this law in such an order. First. This is the case when one can say: The goal is good, and the methods raise doubts. First of all, we are obliged to resolve these issues, first of all, in the Tax Code, and evidently that is the first and foremost reason why a separate law in this form cannot be adopted on its own. The other one. We don't think that in the current state of functioning of the oil market, we can assume that the measures that are provided for by this law, in particular, and branding with total corruption and officials and verifying bodies can be effective that they will change the situation for the better in the oil market. Today's mechanisms, which we already have in Ukraine and which under normal conditions could provide guarantees for the civilized activity of the oil market, are not being implemented today, are not working. Under such circumstances, there is no reason to believe that the new methodology can make a major difference, but there are new technologies that can reintroduce certain corruption schemes, recast schemes, and so forth. Let's figure out, first of all, "Levela," where the biggest losses were. The other one. Let us consider why normal, adequate legislative standards are not being implemented today. Third. We will introduce a bill in its proper form that would amend the Tax Code. And then we're going to work on the options that exist with regard to branding, and so on. So our proposal is to send for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee noted in its report that the rules proposed in this bill would be taken into account in the process of preparing for the second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code, and it follows that these changes and those provisions should be governed by the Tax Code. The main scientific and expert office made a number of remarks to the bill. Therefore, I, my distinguished colleagues, would like to make a decision in the light of the circumstances noted. In accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote the first proposal to adopt a draft law on the organization of the circulation of petroleum products. [[Registration number 7484]] Please identify yourself. [[12:52:18]] For 246 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine, i.e. the new edition of the Law on the Customs Code of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we cannot follow a reduced procedure, since there are more than 100 articles. I would ask the authors, i.e. the rapporteurs, to report their drafts quickly and briefly. Rapporteurs are Ukrainian National Deputy Eugene Igorovich Kzarkov, Ukrainian National Deputy Vasil Mikhajlovich Zdnov and head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Dear colleagues, with such a view to completing our consideration of the matter by 2 p.m. Yes, please, Eugene Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u150	The draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and other Ukrainian legislation is in fact a new edition of the Customs Code, aimed at reforming the customs service of Ukraine and bringing Ukraine's Customs Code into force in accordance with the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures and to the Convention on Temporary Importation, as well as the implementation into national legislation of the framework standards of security of the World Customs Organization. The project prepared by me was prepared taking into account the proposals made by the State Customs Service, and the vast majority of these proposals by the State Service are taken into account. At the same time, the draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other Ukrainian legislative acts, number 8130, which was also introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Homutinik, was prepared for the work of a working group of representatives of the Professional Committee, the public, representatives of the central executive bodies, including representatives of the State Service. Therefore, on the most compromising committee, we also agreed on Project 8130, which brought together the vast majority of the positive suggestions reflected in the bill, prepared by the national deputies: Shevchuk, Suchim, Strange. 8131. Worked Project 8130, which contains a farthest position in the area, and we've taken into account the main directions that were announced in my report, are: The right of a declarant to carry out the customs treatment of goods in any customs office; the personal responsibility of the customs officer for irregular delays in the customs procedure; the right of the declarant to declare the goods before the time of their stay, arrival in Ukraine or the customs office of destination; Freeing declarants from responsibility for unintentional errors. There are also proposals for the declaration of customs declarations by individuals and. the written declaration of the customs declaration of the goods of which the total value exceeds 10,000 euros. There is an increase in the value of importing goods without paying taxes. These are goods, whose total cost does not exceed 2,000 euros and which move in the hand luggage or in the accompanying baggage once every 10 days, they are exempt from taxation. It also provides for the introduction of an electronic declaration system using information technology. The possibility of customs processing of goods in any regional body of Ukraine is determined. Therefore, taking into account what has been said, I propose to adopt in the first reading the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and other legislative acts. [[Registration number 8130-d]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u151	Colleagues, please ask the reporter. Names, please. Gregory Smythew. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u152	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Please tell me whether your law or the new edition of the Customs Code provides for the responsibility of the customs service directly for requiring or often delaying the rights of operators in part of what is untimely, a very large number of customs goods are not being unloaded at the right time today? Appropriately, landowners suffer additional direct and indirect damage, taking into account that they have been in customs for a long time, taking into account that they are often required by the remaining documents, which are not provided for by existing legislation, and so on. Do you regulate this law with a clear and clear position that should require, on the one hand, a customs officer, and what should be given by the person who imports or exports the goods or imports the goods?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u153	It's a fair question, given that I live in Odessa, and you know, I have a lot of citizens coming to my parliamentary reception who apply for some kind of action, a fibula. And even after head of the Dermite Service, Igor Kaletnik introduced clear standards on the divorce procedure, these standards were not always implemented. [[You know, it came in up to 2 hours.]] Therefore, of all our projects, of all our bills, there is a clear norm, which is called: "The personal responsibility of the customs officer for irregular delays in customs clearance." Although, in principle, the acts of the customs officer who has the right or the documents he has the right to ask are described under the items. Therefore, the fibrous one who was today, even when the head gave certain orders by time, would not be possible, would be the customs officer's personal responsibility on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u154	Paul Žebrovsky's faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u155	Please tell me, colleague, is this bill for investigating the customs authorities, something that's been denied for all these years? First question. The second question. Does the customs office have the right to determine for itself codes that do not conform to codes that are defined by the Chamber of Commerce? And the third question. Are customs duties again subject to the determination of the customs value from which customs duties are to be paid and the value added tax?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u156	It is also fair because the main abuses are shown to be related to actions, including ordinary ones. Customs officers, and it's difficult to control when there's a regular inspector with a burset bra, and he says here's my home case when they brought in pot plants, and there's a code for roses that's completely incompatible. Therefore, these procedures are now clearly stated, since over 500 of the rules contained in the convention to us, 280 are directly taken into account here, the rest of us just had before. Therefore, in a large way, it would be impossible to play code without the direct violation of this paragraph, which was discussed, including by colleague Smith, because there was a personal responsibility there, he would be obliged to make it clear, as was the tax act, clearly stated about a particular code. So in general, the philosophy of the document is that in a single code-recording system, a person takes his own code, well, harshly speaking, shoes, whether brandy or non-brandy, from Poland, bring these codes here to match. Then there will be no abuse. And the second. Well, personally I was, I know that, including, in any organ.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u157	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin. I have a few questions. First. I see it's a new edition of the Customs Code. Where even the authority of the customs authorities is fully prescribed, this is in principle correct. But the responsibility of the State when we anticipate whether this is foreseen in the committee is to establish the responsibility of the State for the suffering of business subjects. I've been familiar with this problem for a long time, and I see that goods are coming back from Ukraine, including because of the unfounded things that sometimes happen. And the second question concerns the protection of customs officials who have suffered in recent years from unwarranted reorganizations of the customs service. Do you feel that it is necessary to limit it in the Customs Code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u159	On the first question, I agree here, too. Because you know the problems we have with the cargo. But not only is it necessary to refer to, let's say, the Customs Code claim. As you know, as a resort, we have practically left our ports unladen. And here no corrupt official would be able to compare to the damage that the Medes have done to us in their time when they have misappreciated and given in large numbers to a country that is an economic competitor to us, a whole port has been built and cut off. However, you have seen that in this version of the Customs Code, each of the authors, i.e., in my case with the Tsarev, and Suhigo, and the one that has already been finalized by Vitali on the committee, have solved these problems as much as possible. I'm sure by second reading, we can, if you have as a professional lawyer a proposal, we'll have to take them into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u160	Thank you. Eugene Igorevich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u161	I'm absolutely against it, I insisted on it. And in my case, it wasn't. As you've seen, it's a big deal. In this case, there is no rule in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u162	Thank you. I invite the author of the bill of another Vasil Mikhailovich Zdovnov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u163	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! In introducing a new draft of the Ukrainian Customs Code, I would like to draw attention to the main points on which it was based. As you know, Ukraine is one of the last places in the world to estimate the simplicity of customs procedures. The current customs legislation is not only confusing, but it does not contain the necessary number of direct norms, which is why it distorts the legislative space itself and as a result of the right of customs is almost unlimited. Subjects have only responsibilities, and unfortunately, there are all conditions for the growth of corruption and raw imports. In large numbers, the current customs practice does not correspond to the ratified Ukraine International Conventions on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures and Temporary Imports, the World Customs Organization Framework Safety Standards. As a result, the subject of the declaration meets with baseless and sometimes unreasonable requirements for listing documents to confirm his or her intentions each day. And Ukraine is almost the only country in the world where the declarant learns about the customs value, not from the text of the external economic contract, but from the card of refusal or wish of the customs inspector. For example, if the customs value can change at the same time by undermining the basic principle of business: "sold more cheaply", this confirms the system set up in 2002 that is no longer functioning or operating in such a way that it creates obstacles to the law of international trade. Therefore, the modernization of customs legislation should be aimed at addressing the existing shortcomings, creating a favourable climate for investors, as well as boosting economic activity and international trade, and meeting Ukraine’s international commitments. In addition, we need to keep in mind the protection of the internal market and the filling of the budget, the preservation and increase of jobs in the country. That is why one of the main tasks in the drafting of the new code was the maximum application of direct legislation. As an example, when budget legislation was adopted in the last year of the updated budget code, budget laws ranged from 95 to 120 articles, they needed a large number of sub-legislative acts and time to develop them, agree and implement them, sometimes spending has not been enough. Today, the budget of less than 40 articles, the corresponding normative acts have a permanent effect at a time that simplifies both understanding and budgetary direction. The same is being done in the customs field. The bill proposes a series of innovations that I cannot put out in the absence of time. In particular, the criminal component of sanctions is also offered to minimize. I broke my taxes and my fines, and I want you to keep working, but don't be offended if you're gonna get more scrutinized tomorrow. This transfer of criminal charges to economics using legal practice will allow, at the very least, not to interfere with ineffective and lengthy cases, to establish a clear time frame for the conduct of legal proceedings and charges, not to apply sanctions to a carrier who is not guilty of a breach of the goods. In general, the draft code seeks to establish the presumption of innocence of declarants, to ensure them equal to the customs authority and the rights, duties and responsibilities, to ensure conditions for civilised legitimate international trade, to remove obstacles and the possibility of corruption in any case. A separate systemic issue is the consolidation of legislation. In my opinion, all procedural matters of customs should be as unified as possible in the same code. Such codification is convenient both for the State and for its owners. At the same time, a section on customs service, along with a disciplinary charter, is proposed to be included in a separate law, as in tax authorities. To implement this, all customs standards are concentrated in a separate section and a corresponding mandate is given to the Cabinet of Ministers. We expect the adoption of this project as a law to ensure that both external and external economic activity increases significantly in Ukraine, as well as budget revenues; it will allow a number of reductions in both smuggling and foreign corruption, as well as the removal of a large amount of corruption at the price of imported goods. Taking into account the considerable work that has been done on the Supreme Council's profile committee, please, honourable colleagues, when considering alternative bills, including when considering the rules of our bill, support the preservation of European and world values in customs matters, respect for the rule of law and the presumption of innocence in international trade. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, one minute. Vasil Mikhailovich, there is a question. If you have any questions about Vasil Mikhailovich, please sign up with your distinguished colleagues. Yes, please show me your name. Yuri Carmazin and then Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u165	Yuri Carmazin. I got a good look at a bill called 8130-d. And it's obviously better than 8130. But I have a question for you. I have the impression that in this code they want to make a customs code for Ukraine, in fact, a code of responsibility for breach of customs rules. And it's all in one way that I can say that right here and everything about customs service, even the defenders in this process, and we regulate separately. Whether there is such a need, whether the committee sees danger here, such notions should obviously be defined in procedural legislation, particularly in criminal law or in the Code of Administrative Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u166	Thank you for asking, Yuri Anatolyovich. I think the committee's opinion will be expressed by the committee head. As far as we are concerned, we have sought to establish more clearly the necessary documents for customs clearance and customs valuation. To simplify customs procedures, to make the bill as clear and transparent as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u167	Yes, Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u168	Thank you! Vasil Mikhailovich, I'm very glad that you've drawn the attention of the Supreme Council to the fact that today we have very big problems with exports and imports. And on these principles, of course, the direct role, the important role for the state, is the Ukrainian Customs Service. And these issues need to be settled, given today, in some way to stimulate the same transit, and so on. In this regard, I have two questions. First question. Have you studied how to increase the transit of goods so that the corridor that is today between Europe and Asia fills the budget? This is the first question and what is the trend in this regard. And the second question. Do you not think that such an important document as, I think, for the economy of Ukraine after the Tax Code is the second document that is more important for the economy of Ukraine. That the same order should be discussed as, for example, the Tax Code. I mean, with the Ministry of Finance involved, and with the participation of, directly, the Customs Service. Because it's a very important document that regulates exports and imports, and it's on the watch for our economic interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u169	Thank you, Gregory Yudkomovich, for asking. I think the questions are very important and right. As for the second, in my opinion, I agree with you on such consultations, and I think we will be able to do so before the second reading. As for the first question, please remind me. As far as transit is concerned, yes. I think that if these barriers are removed, which primarily relate to the corruption component, the bureaucratic component, of course, which is going to increase both the transit of exports and the import across our borders.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u170	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u171	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, if possible, I would like to report as the author of one of the drafts of the Customs Code, as well as the position of the committee at the same time in my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u172	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u173	The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy in December last year, even earlier, created a working group that began to work on all issues related to customs legislation. To date, two draft laws have been introduced to Parliament: 8130 and 8131, which the authors have just reported. The results of the review showed that the first of these bills largely reflects the position of the customs regulators and, as a result, does not provide for a substantial reduction in administrative pressure on business. On the other hand, the latter is largely business-oriented, creates more freedom for external economic activity, but at the same time restricts the control powers of customs authorities, and therefore may not be effective enough as a tool to safeguard the protection and economic interests of the State. Taking into account what has been said, the committee, pursuant to article 110 of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepared a new unified draft of the Customs Code under registration number 8130, which organically combines the two bills mentioned above. And its main advantage is to resolve two clusters of interrelated issues. The first cluster of issues is the simplification of customs procedures, the acceleration of customs clearance, the reduction of human influence on the process and the results of customs clearance, the transfer of most border controls from customs to customs. The solution to these questions will mean a maximum reduction in the time spent to complete customs clearance, a way out of the paperweight, a minimization of direct contact between participants in external economic activities and customs officials. The second cluster of issues is giving the customs authorities sufficient authority to carry out their tasks, including strengthening the role of construction as forms of customs control, improving the effectiveness of combating customs offences. The need to address these issues is due to the fact that simplification of customs procedures should not in any way lead to the loss of the state budget. In describing Bill 8130-d, it is worth noting that it corresponds to the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures, the Convention on Temporary Imports, the Modernized Customs Code, which was adopted in 2008, is meant for the European Union. And the Customs Code of Our Neighbors, it's Belarus and the Russian Federation. The project is in line with the Tax Code, which is a lot of rules that are agreed between these two system documents, and is also consistent with the Ukrainian Laws on Central Executive Authorities and Public Information Access. The following can be said of his positive qualities. The project sets out a comprehensive list of documents to be provided to customs authorities for customs control. There are considerable limitations on the possibility of unwarranted product reviews. Much attention has been paid to expanding the scope of electronic declarationing and the use of information technology in customs matters. There is a right of the declarant to submit goods for customs clearance to any customs authority for the declaration of goods until they arrive in Ukraine or before the customs office of destination. It also introduces the right to declare a significant number of appointments under one code, which corresponds to the highest rate of duty. And the declarant's release from liability for unintentional errors made in the customs declaration. An effective risk management system is envisaged for customs control, which is the basis for customs control. The lines of documentary checks carried out by the customs authorities are responsible for the checks provided for in the Tax Code. So the lines are synchronized. An institution of an authorized economic operator has been established and its status has been regulated, which provides for the granting of maximum simplifications in customs control and customs clearance to external economic operators. The section “The customs value of goods and methods of determining them” sets out a clear and comprehensive list of basic documents to be used for customs clearance of the declared customs value. Additional documents that the customs authority may ask if necessary. Also an important, important ingredient in this block is innovation, where it is possible to identify cases where an entity has the right to automatically apply a method of determining the customs value at the price of the contract. I mean, it's a contract bond. A largely liberalized rule for citizens to move goods across the customs border of Ukraine. The project identifies a list of personal items that are not subject to written declaration and exempt from taxation. The valuable limit of duty-free imports of goods by citizens has been raised to 2,000 euros. The total cost of goods exceeding this limit has been reduced from 20 percent to 10 percent. So today this limit is 200 euros. And every day these goods may be moving. This creates some kind of business. For those of us who live near the border, we have offered to increase this volume by ten times. However, at the same time, the term for which goods may be imported should be at least 10 days, or once every 10 days. The project also focuses on all customs tax rules that are now scattered by several legislative acts and many decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. This will allow Ukraine’s Customs Code to be part of tax legislation, as defined by the Ukrainian Tax Code. The issue of the prosecution of decisions, actions and omissions of customs authorities and their officials, as well as the rest of the other issues that apply both to the movement of goods across borders by legal persons and citizens of Ukraine, has been addressed. In general, this editorial was supported by a committee and is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. Science and expertise also pointed out that there is an opportunity to accept this project as a basis. And the committee recommends adopting bill 8330-d today as a basis and starting work for the second reading. I think there's going to be a lot of proposals from the national MPs again. We need to set up a working group immediately with the Supreme Council committee to engage all those who want to participate actively in this systemic and economical process. Of course, our doors open to all the business associations that we've worked with for six months and we'll continue to work until this document is accepted. And I think it would be appropriate if we accepted this edition, a new edition of the Customs Code at this session, so that from 1 January of next year, the country could already work and live by new customs rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, questions, to the head of the committee, please, if there is one. Sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u175	Dear Yuri Vitaliyev, and what of the other two laws has been better taken into account, perhaps, by our colleagues and our constituents? Second question. Do you think the sum of 2,000 euros is, of course, nearly 10 times higher, but does it meet the modern requirements that are still living? Well, how do you think that's going to affect the economic and budgetary adoption of this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u176	Thank you for asking. As far as the two previous projects are concerned, we are the brightest proposals and the most constructive ones have been included in this edition and have offered to be all the national deputies who co-sponsored this workable document that the committee was working on. With regard to this limit, logically, for example, a normal person does not travel abroad every day, and probably once a week it is also difficult to drive abroad if it is not your business. So we decided to make more liberal rules for many of our fellow countrymen, which in one way or another apply to these issues. And I think it's going to be a compromise figure, but we're going to discuss it for the second reading and hear the position that it's going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u177	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u178	We will make decisions on these in the second reading definitively. As far as arrivals are concerned, they will certainly increase how much - I think it should count on the Ministry of Finance and the second reading to make such proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u179	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u180	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear Vitaly Yuriovich! I want to ask how involved the government is in the development of this document. We understand how important a document is the Customs Code, and in fact it is necessary for this bill to be passed by the government, and there are MPs. And according to the authors, we understand that this is done to simplify the accession to the Supreme Council of this document and, at the same time, to remove the liability for all the shortcomings in these documents, because we see that there are failures in pension reform, there have been many complaints under the Tax Code. Until now, we are making changes to the Tax Code. Please tell me how much the government is responsible for this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u181	Thank you. Well, as authors of the legislative initiative, we also have the absolute right to be a party to this process, but it is certainly an important system document that has to be in agreement with the government. And he agrees with the government because the committee, by creating a working group, has involved the experts of the Ministry of Finance, the State Customs Service of Ukraine, other ministries and authorities who are interested in adopting this new Customs Code, and we have certainly engaged in the largest possible business centre. And they were trying to find some balance between the interests of the business firm and the government's proposals. I think we found this balance sheet. And I think, of course, the support of the government will be, and otherwise it can't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u182	Yes, Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u183	Dear Vitaly Yuriovich, a few questions. First question. How do you feel about that question if today is taken as the basis of one of the laws that the Supreme Council will now be determined to publish in the Voice of Ukraine and allow us to express our views to our entrepreneurs, who are directly involved in the export-import issue every day. That's the first question. And the second question. How do you feel about the steps you are taking as head of the committee in terms of parliamentary control over customs activity today? Well in part, for example, what you know is that specialized customs have been created, and it's causing a lot of trouble. problems for entrepreneurs who are forced from different, so to speak, by the point of Ukraine to import their goods to a particular customs office, and that's the extra cost our entrepreneurs bear. Appropriately, it is a matter of expediting these goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u184	Thank you. I think that as soon as we adopt one of the documents, we will certainly have the opportunity to post this text on our committee’s website and wait for suggestions from legislators to our second reading. At the same time, we're going to create a working group and we're going to work. As for the Voice of Ukraine, I don't think that's a question for me. In cooperation with customs, the committee was actually in constant contact with customs, and last week we heard information from the head of the Customs Service of Ukraine, Igor Grigorovich Kaletnik, and found many common, such as the positions that we need to work for. And it is the adoption of the new edition of the Customs Code that will help you to deal with all of these issues that you have just stressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u185	Yes, Vitaly Yuriovich, thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the factions. Please. It's recorded from factions. Yes, please, name it. Yes, Hellcat signed up. Now, please sign up from the National MPs. 15 minutes for the people's deputies. Names of the national MPs, please. Gregory Smythew. So we have 2 speakers: Alexander Pecklesenko, then Gregory Smythuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We must give a clear answer to what challenges we have in adopting this law and what we have achieved. Unfortunately, some of our colleagues and government representatives consider it a major task to collect more customs duties. I think that this is not exactly the goal, the goal is to create conditions, grant the rights of the declaration and duties of the Customs. That's the problem. And the effectiveness of this bill is not to be taken into account as the economy grows, but as the necessary equipment for food, light industry is imported into the country, and the main thing is how the goods grow. It seems to me that the bill proposed by Vitali Juryevich reflects everything on these issues. And I didn't accidentally ask him a question, he confirmed that everything that was best in the previous two bills was included in it. Therefore, respectable colleagues, if we are to put a foothold on corruption if we are to give new impetus to small and medium-sized businesses, we must vote in favour of the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u187	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u188	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, to be honest, I'm surprised by the very passiveness of the very important, one of the very important documents that we're looking at today, because it concerns a very large part of our population that is directly producing, or working in the real economy, on the one hand. On the other hand, we are talking about Ukraine's economic independence and Ukraine's economic stability because it regulates export-imports in Ukraine. Both exports and imports depend on our trade balance, depending on the budget. And such an important document, such passivity, I'm a little surprised. And it's surprising to me that today the head of the Customs Board is absent. The Ukrainian Customs Service, because I'd like him to come forward and tell us what the problems are today. Indeed, many problems have accumulated in the ministry in recent years. We, on the one hand, entered the customs office. Not the customs, but the Soviets passed laws, respectively, they have some regulation, we're building new attitudes today about free trade with those or other countries, we're putting in place some new mechanisms to put the simplified procedure in place for our economy, and, of course, our citizens who are in the export-import business are constantly converging with the Wakhanalia, which is created both in the legislative plan and in the administrative plan. And the complaints about this service, you know, are a lot. So one of my suggestions is, right after they've adopted one of the documents that we're looking at, to publish in the Voice of Ukraine, and to engage a wide range of people to make these proposals, because it's up to them to fill in, and it's up to them to the real sector in the economy. That's the first offer. The second suggestion is, of course, that we should make such rules of law that make it impossible for an official to make decisions or to award a price. Well, let's do it this way: one buys one thing or another, of course, there are different prices in different countries. And one thing's the plan. He buys quality goods in the Chinese market, and the second thing, for example, in the Italian market or in the manufacturer. Of course it's a market. What does he cross when he comes to the customs office? And there's a so-called price department in Customs, it's allocating, it's showing prices. And regardless of what your declaration says, what your contract says, it allocates and collects for today's day, coming out of the prices it provides. This is certainly administrative, so to speak, a violation, and this cannot be allowed in the future. Another important thing. We need to understand that as long as we load the real four Ukrainian corridors that have the opportunity of transit cargo, this is a rapid handling of cargo. For example, in Hong Kong, 15 minutes is the maximum load. We've got a form, a few weeks can be formed. And of course, our transit goods, and Ukraine, are losing, are going beyond Ukraine. And this issue needs to be settled in such a way that it is clear and clear that no one has the right. If all documents are given on time and in full volume.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u189	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u190	keep for more than an hour. So I certainly propose to support one of the bills, the timing of our colleague Homutinika. But to get into the second reading of the wider population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, no one's speaking from faction to performance, are they? Yuri Carmazin, please. Then, if a closing word is needed from the State Customs Service, there is a need.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, our faction advocates for an end to the fighting at customs. Our faction advocates that the State's responsibility be set at the customs office directly, not a specific customs officer for everything that's going on. Our faction opposes people being demanded or bribed, if not, and places they speak. And today people are saying that we're not asking for ourselves, we're demanding that we give it up and give it to the viewers. This is the answer today, beginning with the Westerns, ending with the southern customs. I want to be heard today. That's what they say around here today. Sadly, I would like to see the situation change. So she can change with the adoption of this complex document. And I'm very glad that a complex document with the letter "d" came along. [[MP]] True, it has an attempt to combine both the customs process and the administrative legislation, the Code of Administrative Offences. It even has an attempt at procedural norms, which are in the Criminal Procedure Code, to introduce and practically to be rewritten here as to the evidence relating to other things. I want to say that there's a positive, that there's a negative. And obviously, this bill doesn't have to be adopted in a hurry, it needs to be fully justified, it needs to be seen, because those reorganizations that have been done in customs in recent years, when it comes in, they assign a leader, and it makes people move every year, and it makes people nervous and these retests are done and everything else is done. This did not contribute, of course, to establishing normal positive frames there. In general, I think we need to figure out how to build cities along or across the board, what to do with the search and search, because in fact we're giving this code weapons, we're giving weapons to customs. Let's decide what to do and we should seriously consider when making these decisions, but this is a question of second reading. In the first reading, I don't think there's going to be any danger of adopting this code, and we have to accept it, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u193	Please take the position of the State Service. Do you have anything to say about that? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u194	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! We're asking you to support 8130-d. It's a really consolidated editorial that's worked by the Supreme Council Committee, it's really allowing to simplify a lot of different re-import procedures, according to re-export, creates additional prospects for developing Ukraine's transit potential, simplifies a lot of customs procedures, formalities, allows.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u195	Please, Your Honor. Do you have everyone? Vitaly Yuriovich, do you need a closing word? None. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. The committee proposes to adopt Bill 8130-d as a basis. But at the same time, your honors, please pay attention, we will vote according to the registration, i.e. in turn. The first is to vote on the draft law. [[Registration number 8130]] The author is the national deputy of Kzarykov. 8130 will be the first to vote. [[13:41:37]] For-29 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the second draft for registration number 8130-1. The authors are Wonderful, Dry and Shevchuk. Please be sure. [[13:42:08]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. I'll bet the vote on the proposal for acceptance on the basis of the project. [[Registration number 8130-d]] Vitaly Hometicnik reported on the draft law. In fact, he's worked with the efforts of our profile committee. Please vote on the basis. [[13:42:47]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, now here's the question: the draft Law on Public Organizations. [[Registration numbers 7262 and 7262-1]] The rapporteurs are Ukrainian national deputies Moisik Volodymir and Shevchenko Andri. The focal point is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Upper Sergey Petrovich. What was the procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u196	I'll bet. Yes, Shevchenko is coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u197	All right, all right. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:44:03]] For 227 Decision taken. The reporter is Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. And the second bill will be reported by one of the authors of Pinchuk Andry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u198	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm reporting a bill from the authors' team, which includes the reporter and national deputies Karpuk Vladimir and Oleg Gumenjuk. One step towards the development of civil society is to define a strategy for improving the interaction of executive authorities with civil society institutions of new forms of interaction, creating conditions for the further development of civil society. Freedom of union as the foundation of any democratic state is one of the mechanisms that extends the rights of every human being, creates conditions for the establishment of the rule of law and civil society. The gradual development of the market economy in our country shows the objective need to strengthen these processes by forming appropriate civil society institutions that can harmonize and balance the interests of the state, citizen, and business. In addition, the democratic society, which has been declared in Ukraine and its Constitution, is characterized by such defining signs as the development of civic activity, broad participation and the real provision of citizens' participation in public affairs through full dialogue and partnership with the state, etc. In national legislation, the general principles of unification of Ukrainian citizens are enshrined in the Basic Law, article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The legal and organizational basis for the realization of the right to unite is now governed by the Law on the Unification of Citizens, which is now morally outdated, vague and unforeseeable. It also inhibits the development of social organizations. That is why the urgent, urgent requirement of time is to create a proper legal basis for civil society organisations in general and social organizations in particular. This is the basis for the basic Law on the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u199	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u200	The basic Law on Public Organizations. It must meet the recognized notions of civil society, a democratic rule of law, in Europe. Dear colleagues, there are other bills, so our copyright team won't deny it if you support Andrew Shevchenk's bill or ours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u201	Thank you. Have a seat, please. People's MP Pinchuk, may I have your address?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u202	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! I'd like to present a bill of several authors: Merchant, Pinchuk, Shevchenka, Upper, Litvina, Orobec. As you can see, almost all factions are represented. Draft Law on Public Organizations. [[No. 7260-1]] The bill aims to improve the procedure for the implementation of the right of citizens to freedom of association provided for in article 36 of the Constitution and the international treaties of Ukraine, such as the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, article 11. Why does a country need a new Law on Public Organizations right now? Because the current Law on the Unity of Citizens, first of all, contradicts the European Convention on Human Rights and severely limits the rights of citizens. President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine provided for the adoption of a bill on public organizations by decree on the implementation of Ukraine’s obligations and obligations arising from its membership in the Council of Europe. Ukraine’s commitment to the Council of Europe is particularly important in view of the headship of Ukraine in the Cabinet of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which began on May 11, 2011. In today's legislation, there are major problems -- these are, I'd like to say, the system of registration of public organizations. It is very complicated: It takes 42 people, 30 days to register. Instead, it takes three days and much faster to create businesses. Although some 50 initiatives by citizens to set up an organization end with a refusal. Civil organizations have the right to protect the interests of their members only. This actually limits the activities of law enforcement and environmental organizations. Civil organizations have no direct right to engage in noncommercial economic activities. For example, the public organization cannot print and sell its books about, there, a healthy lifestyle but receive money and refer to statutory activity. This forces the organization to keep asking for money.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u203	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u204	The bill proposes: simplifying and costing the registration of public organisations, empowering public organizations to protect not only their members' interests, but also any legal rights and interests, abolishing the mandatory territorial status of public organisations, creating an open register of public organisations. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government recommended the adoption of a bill on public organizations. [[No.7261-1]] The bill supports many public organizations and very positive assessments of international aspects. From this team of authors, please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u205	Dear national deputies, and now the committee's decision. He will be reported by Upper Sergei Petrovich, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, our committee on March 30, 2011 discussed Ukrainian legislation on civil organisations -- 7262, submitted by MPs Moisik, Karpuk, Gumenyuk, and project 7262-1, submitted by MPs Miroshnichenko, Podgorny, Shevchenk, Lithuania, Orobec, Pinchuk. These bills propose to determine the legal, organizational basis for the exercise of the right of individuals to freedom of association in public organizations. In this draft law, 7262 stipulates that Ukraine's Unification of Citizens Act, which is also regulated by the above-mentioned issues, acts with regard to public organisations only in a part that does not conflict with this law. The structure of the project is almost identical to that of the current law, which will lead to competition in laws and the emergence of legal colleges, difficulties in the application of law. The bill also proposes to prohibit the creation of social organizations by foreigners, stateless persons, and the obligation to establish control bodies of public organizations, and there are overlaps between the individual provisions of legislation regarding the state registration of legal persons. The project's "end-of-life position" foresees the obligation of all legalised public organisations throughout the year to bring their institutional documents into line with the new law and to register these changes in the legalization bodies, which is contrary to the recommendations of the Council of Europe's Council of Ministers to Member States regarding the legal status of non-governmental organizations in Europe. Draft Law 7262-1 proposes a valid basic in this area of the Act on the Unification of Citizens to recognize that it has become invalid and to amend certain legislative acts. The bill proposes to address the main problems in the legal regulation of the creation and activities of public organizations by providing for their registration on the basis of the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons, with the simultaneous simplification and loss of registration, the creation of a transparent register.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u207	Please, yes, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u208	Simultaneously simplifying and costing registration, creating a transparent register of public organisations, providing additional guarantees for participation and protection of rights not only for members of public organisations, but also for social groups, lifting of territorial restrictions, lifting restrictions on activities, introducing a general permit principle in the activities of organisations, and the possibility of creating public organizations of territorial units, etc. The Committee noted that the provisions of the two bills proposed to amend the circle of entities that may be founding members of public organizations and to provide for such a right for legal persons, private law, do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, in accordance with part one of article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine. It is the citizens of Ukraine who have the right to freedom of union in political parties and social organizations to protect their rights and freedoms and to satisfy their political, economic, social, cultural and other interests. The Committee on Budget Affairs believes that the draft Ukrainian Law 7262-1 has an impact on the budgetary indicators and is contrary to article 87 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council proposes that, as a result of the first reading of the two bills, the subject should be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further development. At the same time, the committee unanimously approved recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law submitted by the people’s deputies Moses, Karpuk, Humenjuk, on the basis of the first reading of it. [[Registration number 7262]] And Bill 7262-1 on the outcome of the first reading was adopted as a basis. I would like to conclude by noting that in the drafting of these bills a round table was also held with the participation of many public organizations that supported Bill 7262-1. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u209	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a discussion. And I would like to ask you carefully to read these laws, the honourable colleagues, at the same time in the process of discussion. National Deputy Kaplanko, Reform Group for the Future. Then there's Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u210	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u211	One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u212	We've been discussing both bills over and over.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u213	Yes, please. Chaplin, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u214	The parliamentary group "For the Future Reforms" discussed both drafts at its meeting. You know, we fully support the thesis that Ukraine needs a new Law on Public Organizations. We support the thesis that it is necessary to give appropriate opportunities to public organizations that are wider than they are today, in the direction of carrying out their economic activities, including if they are not profitable, so that each public organization does not stand on paper and ask for money from Ukrainians or foreign actors to carry out its activities. The parliamentary group concluded that Bill 7262 would not be supported by us because it was actually competing with the Basic Law of Ukraine on the Unification of Citizens. A better situation in relation to Bill 7262, which deals more or less with all issues. However, by eliminating the current Ukrainian Unification Act, a large number of issues remain unresolved, which are regulated by the bill. In particular, it is the right of public organizations to carry out economic activities, public oversight and control of the activities of public organizations. And the Constitution provides that the unification of citizens may exist in two ways: the political party and the public organization. We, the MP, have decided not to support Bill 7262-1, and we ask that this bill be drafted to bring it to a level of non-competitiveness and non-confrontation with the existing legislative field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u215	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. The next one will be George Carmazin. Dear colleagues, we continue to work for 15 minutes, that is, until the issue is resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u216	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! With regard to these two bills, there are sufficient scientific and expert findings. Some may be disagreeable, but some raise serious doubts as to the logic and validity of some of the bills. In particular, the project refers to the first, which is chronologically, insufficiently defined the characteristics of the rightful status of the branches and the representations of foreign public non-governmental organizations, to which, according to part three of article 1, the act of the law proposed is distributed. Indeed, the project does not contain any restrictions on activities, especially political, by the way, activities, or organizations. As a result, for example, it seems that the only general list of rights envisaged in article 19 of the project, registered public organizations, is distributed to branches and representatives of foreign public NGOs in full scope. In that context, I want to raise a question right now, maybe it's just some kind of violence in some people that's going to cause misunderstandings, a discussion, but when they say that a public organization that's financed from abroad, maybe everything, I have some thoughts. If the public organization is held with foreigners or kept from abroad, including embassies of foreign states, and is engaged in the fight against HIV/AIDS, and supports Ukrainian patients, there are no questions. But there are social organizations that are simply real, objective actors in the political process in Ukraine. They work on the sidelines of political parties, they organize political rallies, demonstrations, seals, and so on. You think it's right when the public organization that's looking after not public affairs is involved in the political process that it's actually holding on to money.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u217	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u218	to representatives of another state. If anyone thinks it's normal, then it's obvious that political parties, which is absurd, can think of them as being able to finance themselves from other states, then you don't have to call Ukraine a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u219	Ruslan Knazevich, please, instead of Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u220	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, in fact, the law we are considering is absolutely impenetrable. I believe that in order for democratic processes in Ukraine to become irreversible. So it can be considered together, at least, with two recently adopted parliaments, namely, access to public information and prevention of corruption, such as those that make a fairly serious solid foundation for finally establishing a civil society in Ukraine. Another thing that, as far as I'm concerned, we didn't hear the most important discussion, as the committee representative said, is the position of the Committee on Legal Policy and the Committee on Professional Affairs on the grounds that this bill is somewhat contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. What is it? The point is that when we are talking about social unification and unification of citizens, of course, such associations cannot be made up of foreigners, stateless persons, and legal persons of private law because they are not citizens. In view of this situation, we cannot move on without overcoming or resolving the problem. We have a constitutional wall ahead of us. How can we get out of this situation? For me, it's the only way. If we agree and decide that we take it as a basis, we have to change the name of the law and the essence of the law before we read it. And we need to move on to the practice that is around the world, not about social associations and social organizations, but about NGOs. [[non-governmental organization]] Then this simplifies our assignment and simplifies what the previous reporter said. Everything else in these laws is largely resounding. This is a solution to the three basic issues that need to be resolved, and after I recall, the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional the Law on the Uniting of Citizens in this section. It's about the permissive nature of organizations' registration, the distinction, the so-called territory that makes it possible for organizations to maneuver, and the third most important thing is that from now on public organizations have to take care of all citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u221	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u222	Not just those who are their members. However, given that we have 2 bills, and we have to solve this problem from a constitutional point of view, let's decide that one of them, I would say, with stroke 1 to take the basis, and before second reading radically correct it, given that we really should not close our eyes to the unconstitutionality of its individual positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u223	1 minute Yuri Miroshnichenko. Then one minute, Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u224	Dear colleagues! For information, when you are determined to prove to you such information as you know, Ukraine has accepted an obligation before the Council of Europe to work substantively on legislation in the area of citizen unity. And the President of Ukraine, by his decree on a plan of action for the fulfilment of Ukraine’s obligations and obligations arising from its membership in the Council of Europe, predicted the need for the adoption of a bill on public organizations. We are also encouraged by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Of course, by taking all the remarks, all the suggestions that have been made in this rostrum, and perhaps even by improving the name of NGOs, I urge you to support Bill 7262-1 on the basis that Europe does not just declare. Ukraine not only declared its European choice but also ensured it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u225	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u226	But it was also provided by real mechanisms. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u227	Andrew Shevchenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u228	Colleagues! The Yulia Timoshenko faction – "The Fatherland" will support the bill for a number of obvious reasons. First, we consistently support all legislative initiatives that benefit civil society. And secondly, logic is completely understandable, because that's the only way that a country where people take responsibility for their lives, for the future, only this country has a chance of success. It's different. civil society is not just noble things, it's also concrete results. Not necessarily political results, as we are told. More than 60 percent of NGOs work with people with special needs. These are young people, children, disabled people, and so on. And these organizations, for each of the financial envelopes, they're going to have 3 dollars of foreign money. That's a plus. And the third reason. We believe that when civil rights and freedoms in the country are at great risk, any step to support civil society is justified, it is positive. I think that this is one of the things that can unite Parliament, regardless of our party icons and political preferences. We will support the new Law on Public Organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. All the factions who insisted took advantage of the opportunity to speak. All I'm asking is the honourable national MPs, starting with the drafters who signed it: before you put it, it's desirable that you read it. Because I'm there with one author. He said he didn't read the bill. They said they asked me to sign it. Besides, that's the law we need. That's what I'm saying right now, so there won't be any convulsions. It's very necessary. Not for the Council of Europe, for Ukraine, first of all for Ukraine. I would ask them to listen to the words of an unbiased, unbiased man, Ruslan Knazevitch. And when I talk about an unattractive person, I know what I'm talking about, and you all know what we're talking about. So let's support one of the projects, and we're seriously working on the other. And you don't have to say anything. We all understand that we need to make this decision. But this is a decision for Ukraine not to follow or tell the queues, what we have taken and where we should now carry our declarations. I mean, respectable colleagues, read the papers carefully. So I would like to support one option that you will support so that we can continue to make a professional decision after further processing, as Ruslan Knazevitch said. In accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote the first draft, which was reported by my colleague Moses, to adopt it as a basis. [[14:07:13]] For-49 The decision is not taken. I now put to the vote the second sentence: acceptance as the basis of the draft law, reported by his national MP, Andriy Pinchuk, for adoption as a basis. [[Registration number 7262-1]] It's a draft of the Public Organizations Act. So vote, fellows. [[14:07:48]] For 251 Decisions were made. Orders and requests to the committee, to all of you, honourable colleagues: your proposals, to the committee, to prepare him quickly for his second reading. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. At 16 o'clock we'll continue to consider the issues set by the schedule for Tuesday, May 17th.
