ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:49]] They registered in the 392 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues, the Blues of Artem Mikolaiovich and the Blacks of Vasil Vasilovich. Please welcome them and wish them success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 2 November 2011. 15 issues of the agenda have been considered, as a result of their consideration: four laws and one decree, nine bills and two draft regulations have been rejected. Honourable National Deputies, two factions under the Supreme Council regulations require a recess to be announced for consultations, a statement to be made. Please, who will be making the application. Do you want to give later or how? All right, later then. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing the appointment of a judge to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Honorable national deputies, in accordance with articles 85 and 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, are assigned a third of the composition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. According to part two of article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, part two of article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, I introduced the proposal for the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Mr. Aleksandra Mihajlovich. The following Rules of Procedure are proposed: if there is a question for a candidate to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court, give five minutes, then allow the committee to publish its decision, its recommendations for a candidate to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court, then give the representatives of the factions to speak for up to three minutes if such wishes are from one faction or another. Then, honourable colleagues, give the floor to the head of the Counting Commission to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the order in which the vote would take place. At 12 o'clock during the intermission vote. Obviously we're going to need a little bit more time than 30 minutes, obviously 40 minutes, but on that point, I think he's going to give us his recommendations to the head of the reckoning commission. Is there no objection to that? Dear colleagues, I invite you to the rostrum of Pasenyuk Alexander Mikhailovich. Please sign up for questions. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikola Dmitrovich Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u2	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense. Your Honor, you're a candidate for an honorary mission to the judge of the Constitutional Court! We've known you for a long time, you've created administrative justice in Ukraine. In fact, you have become what is needed by Ukrainian citizens when they find out about their relationship with the authorities. It is clear that the judge of the Constitutional Court is both an opportunity to interpret and to draw certain conclusions on issues where there are certain coalitions or when the Supreme Council cannot find a consensus. I have a simple question. Your view of the Constitutional Court's ability to abolish the current rules of the Constitution. This decision, which was taken, has led Ukraine to turn from the parliamentary-presidential republic into a presidential-parliamentary republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u3	Thank you for asking. From my point of view, all the powers of the Constitutional Court are laid down in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u4	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u5	Dear Alexander Mikhailovich, I have known you personally for a very long time as a literate leader in those positions that you have embraced in all the branches of the judiciary. Please tell me by going to work at the Constitutional Court if the Supreme Council gives you that kind of consent today and votes for the majority in favour of your candidacy that I fully know you as an expert that you deserve, and you will be there as a worker, as it is said, a horse that will perform its direct functions, because with such great experience, you will be one of the main players in the Constitutional Court. I have a question for the following order. As you think, is the Constitutional Court sufficiently protecting human rights today and do we not need, the Supreme Council, to make any changes to the current Constitutional Court Act, if you can make that assessment for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u6	Unfortunately, I have not yet analysed the increase in the powers of the Constitutional Court, because my task was to develop administrative justice. I don't think I've lost the ability to increase, the ability to analyse and the Constitution of Ukraine. This is actually going to be now, maybe my job and my job. So I think maybe that's what you need. But in order to do that, I think this analysis is already in place, and the changes to the Constitution are now being prepared. But as long as I haven't been so honest about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u7	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u8	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. I have one comment and one small question. The observation is that on December 29, 2009, according to the Constitution, you were to leave office, leave office, and head the Supreme Administrative Court. You didn't do it in violation of the Constitution and by violating the Constitution, you appointed yourself, in fact, head for a new period, not deputy as defined. You're obviously aware of this, so you're in a much higher position to continue to do so with the Constitution from the point of view of the Constitutional Court. And the second. Who appointed the cook? Who represented him as a reward and do you not feel any moral distress from the fact that one of your most prominent judges is sitting and will be sitting for a long time in fact for the bribery that you will develop in the system of administrative justice under your authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u9	I think I have answered these questions many times. The point is, I didn't break the Constitution. The point is, for appointment to the Supreme Administrative Court as well as in all courts of Ukraine at that time, there was a vacuum. That is, there was no legislative body that appointed the heads of the courts. And that's why I didn't appoint myself, but I was chosen by a higher self-government body, a judicial conference of administrative courts. It was temporary, I was in charge of the court, and later I was appointed chief of court by the Higher Council of Justice in the legislative basic order. It's about the cook. It's our administrative justice pain. But I think they practically made the show out of this, they made the show before the election. I didn't appoint Zvaric, he was appointed president.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u10	Olena Bondarenko, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u11	Microphone? Oh, there is. Please, Philenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u12	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u13	Philenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u14	Vladimir Filenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u15	Vladimir Philenko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear candidate, all of you in the parliamentary circles, close to parliamentary, are called impostor because you are illegally taking up the position you want. Dismissed. The composition of the Constitutional Court and without you is manual, manageable. And I wonder, why is it that the authorities are pushing you to reinforce and so unconstitutional court?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u16	Is that a question for me? It was I who showed my desire to be a judge of the Constitutional Court, it was my wish. Since I am a judge, I have started my judicial career a long time ago, and I am already in my 20 ’ s. And I think that it is a judicial career for every judge that is a desire, a dream to complete a career, a professional career in the Constitutional Court. What's with the power?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u17	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I'm inviting the committee to report to you. Secretary of the Legal Policy Committee Vladimir Leonidovich Tolstenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u18	Your Honors, Your Honors! In accordance with part three of article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy considered, at its meeting, the submission by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the appointment of Mr. Alexander Mikhailovich as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[November 2, 2011]] According to the materials provided, the committee set up the following: [[Autobiography, passport, diploma on higher legal education, manuals, employment books, income declarations, financial obligations and property, etc.]] Pasenjuk Alexander Mihajlovich, a Ukrainian citizen in 1949, has a higher legal education. In 1975 he graduated from the Odessa State University of Mečnikow, a law specialist, a lawyer. The legal system has been in place for over 37 years, including more than 18 years in the judiciary. He has been living in Ukraine for more than 20 years. For the time being, the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. According to part two of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 53 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges does not belong to political parties and trade unions. It does not participate in any political activity, does not have a representative mandate, does not combine its activities with entrepreneurial or legal activity, any other paid work other than teaching, scientific, creative activity, nor does it form part of a governing body or a supervisory board of an enterprise or an organization that aims at receiving income. In view of the above, Pasenyuk Alexander Mikhajlovich meets the requirements of part three of article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 16 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act and may be appointed judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In view of the fact that the candidate elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the judge of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine and appointed by the Supreme Council of Justice as the head of this court, the admission of Pasenjuk Alexander Mikhajlovich to the oath of the judge of the Constitutional Court in the case of appointment may be effected after his dismissal from office.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u19	Thank you. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for the factions if there is such a need and such a desire, please. If not, no. Please record from factions and groups. From factions and groups. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Filenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Then Volodymyr Moses will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u20	Dear Chairman, please give the floor to the colleague Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u21	Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, respected radio listeners, are further forming an unconstitutional body that has in fact changed the Constitution of Ukraine by its decision. Not by a decision of Parliament, not by a popular referendum, but by a decision of the Constitutional Court in the country, a new old Constitution appeared, you see. Who, then, are the judges complemented by this judgment? The predecessor, in answer to my colleague Vladimir Bondarenko's questions, stated that he had nothing to do with the cook. And I would like to remind you, Mr. Pasenuk, that it was your appointment as Head of the Lviv Administrative Court. This is the Welder who introduced this personality of the worst quality in the judicial system of Ukraine. You were the one who presented it to President Yushchenko. And I think you're personally responsible for the kind of footage that you've grown up in the judicial system. Secondly, you gave an answer here that, you see, there was no legislative regulation when you yourself were assigned to the Chief of the Supreme Administrative Court a day before the completion of your duties. I would like to remind you that your mandate ended on December 22, 2009. But there was a presidential election. And you've been given a clear assignment of how to deal with cases if there's a complaint. And that's why in violation of the Law on the Court of Justice, which clearly determined what he was doing, in the event of the completion of the terms of office of the Supreme Court, the First Deputy, and in the absence of the First Deputy, the Deputy Chief Justice. No matter what you do, you assign yourself to fulfill your responsibilities. You continue to refer to the fact that this was not regulated by law. I want to remind you. You will continue to determine whether the laws of the Constitution are in line. To be regulated by the law of Ukraine. You went straight for a violation of a legislative act that defines such an order. Thirdly, it is clear to us that in the Constitutional Court, where there are representatives who have nothing to do with constitutional justice at all, they continue to be filled with representatives who will decide everything out of political relevance. Not based on the actual conformity of the laws of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine. That is why our faction will not participate in the election of such a representative, because it will embarrass the system of justice and the system of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u23	The faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" conveys the right to speak to Oleg Laszko, please. () [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what Vladimir Romanovich Moysik does. Dear colleagues, I beg your pardon, Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u24	Thank you. I will speak a little more quietly because on the previous Conciliation Board, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov made remarks that some MPs spoke very emotionally. You see, yesterday, emotionally in the south, protecting the rights of the Chernobyls from power, the voice went off, and every one of you has a voice, because you're not protecting people, you're not defending their interests. Now, about Mr. Pasenyuk. I don't know him personally, I've never met him, I've never gone to him for anything, and unlike many of you, I haven't asked for anything. But it is clear that Mr. Pasenyuk, as Head of the Supreme Administrative Court, is fully responsible for the system of administrative justice. Today it's full of vachanals. Millions of Ukrainian citizens have been waiting for years to hear appeals from the administrative courts of Chernobyl, Afghans, children of war, and so forth. And it's you, Mr. Pasenuk, I'm addressing you, who created this system of administrative courts that has forced millions of people to go to court for years, and many people have died in your courtrooms. It is you, as Head of the Supreme Administrative Court, who are responsible for the disgrace. You say Zvaric is the pain of administrative justice, it's the disgrace of administrative justice, it's the shame of Ukrainian justice in general. And there's been repeated testimony that Boiler and you were being bribed. And it's strange why, instead of being held accountable, you're being brought before a judge of the Constitutional Court. You just stood here on the Supreme Council stand, and you said that any judge was going to end his career in the Constitutional Court, and I thought that the Constitutional Court was not a reprisal for pensioners like you, but a body that interprets the Constitution. And the last thing I won't do is vote for you. The judges of the Constitutional Court are elected by a term of nine years. You're 62 years old, Mr. Pasenuk. You go there for three years. Why are you going there? Give way to the young. Get the retirees out of power, give the young men a way forward, give them a chance to give the simple boys girls who, through you, can't get anywhere, free the way voluntarily, give young people the opportunity to work that today without mud, without hair on their hands, without money. Children can't achieve anything, they get their diplomas, and they walk without a job because of you, because you've been in power for years, and you're not letting anyone get through, and then you're pulling your actions and your grandkids. That's why I'm against you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u25	Oleg Zarubinski. I appeal to the National Deputies to adhere to some basic ethical standards. So let's do an example in this respect. Oleg Zarubinski. Jaroslav Suhi will be next. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u26	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, as a replica, at first. I cannot agree that if a person is 60 or 62 years old, he is crushed. You know, you can be downtrodden much at a younger age, and this can be related to other circumstances. So I don't think that's how people should be insulted, depending on their age, especially that people who are 60-62 years old today have done much more than they are today. That's the first one. As far as the Constitutional Court itself is concerned, it certainly has claims, everyone has claims, but these claims need to be addressed to themselves, because I remember very well how in 2008 some of our colleagues simply refused to work and physically abused the judges of the Constitutional Court. I just think that's how it would be in some state that is a promoter of democracy in the world or a leader of democracy in the world, if that was the attitude of the members of the Constitutional Court of this country by force. That's why I think the Constitutional Court is the one who deserves to be criticized, including by those who criticize him today. And finally. We trust the submission to the Head of the Supreme Council, it is considered, it is based on the analysis of the candidacy that is being submitted today. And it's so formal, and it's not really formal, but it's biographic data, when a 37-year-old is working in the field of law and working as a judge for over 18 years, that's probably why he should be treated with respect, even with basic respect, to those people who haven't done a damn thing in their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u27	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's giving Bondic the right to speak. Valery Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! You know, I don't want to be Alexander Mikhailovich Pasenyuk's lawyer, and he doesn't need him. He is an experienced man, an experienced officer in the judicial system, and recall his experience in life. At the same time as the system of administrative courts was established for the first time, and this was to be a branched system in all areas, even district administrations in the cities, Alexander Mikhailovich Pasenyuk and his team, with the board of judges of the administrative judges, worked hard, even personal ones, to get all the courts to work. And remember how difficult the times were: both the elections and all the other obstacles that they felt about themselves were due to us, the policies that pushed them to court. And as for the fact that the system was so-called, I don't want to offend a person, because maybe he deserves it, maybe he doesn't deserve it, well, let me put it this way, with a little "wheat" letter, he doesn't have any bearing on the Welder. On the other hand, the officer who was in charge of the Ukrainian court system, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, who was in charge of the Ukrainian court system, and he was in charge of the selection of the personnel, and he was in line with the law, for the presentation of the prize, not like Pasenuk. So please look at the material base, look at the laws. Alexander Mikhailovich Pasenyuk, as far as I know his life experience, his biological experience, he's proven himself to be, you know, such a scientist, because it was still attracted to him when he was working in the Justice Department system. I stopped by, and I saw some papers after him that he was working on. And, you know, I think he can handle it. Why: because we're giving an application not to a political person, not to ourselves, from the Hall, we're giving a submission from the Supreme Council to a judge who's going to interpret the Constitution, which is going to pass a college verdict with colleagues on the conformity of the laws of the Constitution, the main and basic law of direct action in the state. And so, honourable colleagues, once again, I say from what he started: he doesn't need a lawyer, he just needs time to act as a judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. I would like to remind you that according to article 208 of the Rules of the Supreme Council and article 7 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine by secret balloting. In this regard, the head of the Counting Commission, Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u30	I would like to say the first thing: to announce the composition of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council. Klužní Vitaly Anatoliyovich, Komar Mikolajovich, Komar Mikolajovich, Final Vladimir Leontijovich, Peklushenko Alexander Mikolajovich, Stoyan Alexander Mikolajovich, Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovic, Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich, Barwinenko Vitali Dmitrovic, Biruk Lev Vasilovich, Bondarenko Olena Fedorovna, Gacko Valerij Petrovic, Prokopčuk Yuri Volodymyrovich, Olijnik Viktor Stepanović, Shago Evgen Petrovic, Vyvsky Vladimir Mihajlovich, Grimcak Yuri Mikolaajovich, Tka Roman Volodymyrovich, Gordijenko Sergei Vladimirovich, Sheršun Mikola Hartonović. The other one. The request is now for all members of the committee to meet in Room 5 so that we can start our work with you. There's a request in 10 minutes, I'd like to emphasize, to meet you in room number five on the third floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the head of the Counting Commission, members of the Counting Commission, to meet for a meeting. After preparing all the necessary procedures for the vote, the head of the counting committee will report on the order of secret ballots. Yes, thank you. When you're ready, Mikola Haritonovich, you'll know. Dear colleagues, in this way we are suspending this issue now, there will be a report by the head of the committee on how to conduct the vote. A vote will be held at 12 o’clock. Dear colleagues, as I have already told you, two factions have proposed to announce a recess for the statement. A statement will be made by Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, yesterday the progressive society of Ukraine and the world was shocked by the expanded meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine headed by the President. It was not the shock of this society that the third time nonprofessional members of the government were released and again not released. She was shocked by what the President said about Ukraine's massive arms supply and preparations for armed attacks on government authorities. Today, on the radio, representatives of the Party of the Regions expressed, as a minimum, two versions of what the President had in mind. One version is that it is the hunters who buy weapons because there is nothing to eat and it is necessary to cook meat. Others expressed the view that this opposition was going with the fitting, and the fittings were included in the weapons. And the third point of view is that these are extreme radical left forces in honor of the 7th of November, the Day of the Yellow Revolution, want to carry out a new armed uprising. Given that the real president in the text actually accused the opposition, because we are the opposition to the President, we have one requirement and one advice for the President. Our requirement is that tomorrow, on the day of the government, we demand that the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine, report not only to Parliament, but to the Ukrainian people in which the region is buying up mass weapons and preparing for an armed uprising that prevents our law enforcement authorities from committing such criminal acts as every civilian must condemn? If necessary, the opposition is ready to initiate the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission and actively engage in the work so as not to allow the events described by the President to take place. And our advice to the President and to the authorities: The President joyfully said yesterday that the main thing is normal people. Those who are hardest to deal with are silent, waiting, and patient. I would advise the President and the authorities: if you want to live in a country that respects and respects our citizens, do not focus on those who are silent, patient and waiting, or who think, respect and respect themselves. Then the authorities will be respected, and Ukraine will be respected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of matters. Now we have to consider a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council Order on the selection of heads, the first deputies. [[Registration numbers 9260, 9260-1 and 9260-2]] Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to ask that we have not yet completed the consultations on this issue, that we should be able to work for a week and that we should postpone consideration of this matter for a week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u35	Is there no objection? Okay. The question is being asked, the question being considered. Let's go to chapter two. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities on the Extension of the Network of Free Centres is being complied with. Bill 8463 registration number. Reports the head of the committee’s subcommittee on industrial and regulatory policy and enterprise, Mikhail Chechtov. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u36	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship has finalized the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities on the Extension of the Network of Allowance Centres, No. 8463, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 May of the current year. The purpose of the bill is to establish a legal basis for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature based on the principle of organizational unity at the district level, namely, the establishment of free district-level centres, the regional permitting authorities. The bill contains 12 comments and suggestions, 10 of which are included. A comparative table to the bill is discussed in the October 5th Committee this year, supported by it and decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second reading bill and generally as a law. It's your only request. Since there have been proposals from local authorities that we have in this law set up a strict system for establishing permissive centres in district centres -- both urban and regional -- they ask for an alternative, to allow the regional administration to decide, to set up two centres or, in terms of economy, a small town to leave one, in agreement between the city and the area. And then it is proposed on page 2, in order to meet the local authorities, on page 2 of the third paragraph of the article4. 1 part of the twelfth is written in this text where you put an alternative. I'll give you a transcript. "The issue of documents of a permissive nature by regional authorities within a responsible and administrative territorial unit may be carried out through a free city council centre, which is a district centre, in accordance with the agreed decision of the city council and the Council of Ministers of Autonomous Crimea or the district government administration." In other words, we have an alternative: to the discretion of the district administration and the city authority to create two in the area of the centre or in terms of economy, one. In view of this, I would like to support the draft law in its second reading as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u37	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, all the corrections, except for one nine, are counted. Yuri Carmazin, do you insist? On page 9, your amendment is on page 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u38	She's listed there on a regular basis, and he asked me to write it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin. Of course I'll tell you that. And I thank you that most of my amendments have been taken into account. But the 9th is off-limits. This is part of the first article 7 after the words "issue of documents of a permissive nature" are added with the words " their duplicates." Although it's basically written in the right column as "there's a duplicate issue." But they wrote that it was rejected. I think it's wrong. Enter, it's accounted for essentially. So I thank the committee and Mr Chechchev himself for taking my amendments into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u40	Yes, the honourable colleagues, indeed, here she is included a little in another edition, but Yuri Anatolyevich is pleased with the consideration of his amendments. Then I put a motion to the vote: to adopt, in the second reading and in general, the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities on the Extension of the Network of Allowance Centres, taking into account those proposals that the rapporteur said. [[Registration number 8463]] Please vote. [[10:40:32]] For 260 Thank you. The law is passed. We're looking at a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity on the procedure for issuing a copy of the licence. [[Registration number 8450]] [[second reading]] Reported to the head of the Committee's subcommittee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Chechtov Mikhajlo Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u41	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished National Deputies, Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 2 November 2011, reviewed a comparative table of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activities on the procedure for issuing copies of licences, adopted on 17 May of this year by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8450]] The purpose of the bill is to create a level playing field for operators who intend to conduct or conduct commercial activities that are licensed. During the drafting of the bill, 15 comments and suggestions were made before the second reading by the national deputies. Members of the committee to decide on the approval of the text of the table presented to you discussed other options: proposals to delete copies of licences for individual activities for both legal persons and natural persons. The Supreme Council's draft decree on the recognition of the decree on the adoption of the bill in the first reading is such that it is not valid. But a majority of the votes were taken to maintain the order of issuance of copies of licences for operators. Please support the committee’s decision and adopt the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u42	Thank you. Let's get some repairs. Xenia Mikhailovna Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u43	Thank you, Your Honor, because it's really important. I want you all to understand what's going to happen now. Today, natural persons entrepreneurs are not obliged to receive a copy of the licences for each activity. This law does not actually deregulation, but we do regulate, impose on them the need to obtain, in fact, a copy of the licence that they already have. My proposal is to take advantage of the existing possibility and to make a deregulation. Cancel the notion of "copy license" and what is necessary to control, namely, the place of activity, to add to the license, which, by the way, today exists in every licence case, but defined by the regulations, there is no definition of it in the law. Actually, my first amendment only applies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u44	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u45	My first amendment only applies to a name that I don't insist on. But all the next ones, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u46	Yes, please, next amendment. The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u47	The second amendment is about giving in to the law, and I emphasize the definition of the term "licension supplement." I'm pointing out that today, de facto, if you open any license, this app is for every license. But it's not defined by law, and it's no longer foreseen for natural entrepreneurs. If we predict it in the law, we'll make the licensing procedure more transparent first. Secondly, let's make it possible to give up copies of a license such as unnecessary regulatory load.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u48	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected Xenia Mikhailovna, we have indeed discussed your position. And here, as two conceptual approaches, the conceptual approach that was set out in the first reading of the bill, presented on first reading, the Cabinet of Ministers, where the possibilities for copies of licences and individuals and legal and your approach are balanced. The Committee therefore supported the proposal, the Government's concept of issuing copies of licences.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u49	I'll put the second amendment to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:45:15]] For -14 Not supported. Please, 6 corrections to Lupina, oh, sorry, Carmazina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Of my four amendments, three are counted by the committee. And thank you for taking such a thoughtful approach. In fact, the sixth amendment is just a little bit altered in the form of, let's say, content. And I thought it was better that way. But if the committee did not find such an opportunity, it would satisfy other amendments. I will not insist on insisting on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u51	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u52	I just wish we could hear what Kseniya Mikhailn said. And I'd like Mikhail Vasilovich here to explain how we can get out of this situation so that we don't actually regulate this activity, but simplify our economic activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u53	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, seventh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u54	Thank you. I'd like to comment immediately on 7th and 8th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u55	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u56	I would like to point out, fellow honourable Members, that if we choose the concept that we should still issue copies of licences, don't be surprised why the President will continue to criticize and report that reforms are not progressing. Because that's actually a step back from reform. I agree with you. The chosen concept is to knock down entrepreneurs, individuals with copies of papers. Is this concept at all? Does it fit any common sense? I'm not sure. I understand why this is suggested by the executive branch. Because they're on these licenses if they're doing different extra benefits. But why is this supported by the Supreme Council, which keeps saying that we're sort of focusing our efforts on reform? I'm sure this isn't a reforming concept today. If you support my amendment, this is exactly the direction of reform, of real reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u57	Yes, Your Honor, the 7th and 8th amendments were argued, and I will put them to the vote in turn. It's the 7th Amendment of Kseniya Lapina, please identify yourself. [[10:47:55]] For -6 Not supported. The 8th Amendment of Kseniya Llapina is voting, please be determined. [[10:48:12]] For-7. Not supported. Yes, please, Pietovka, 10th. Do Not Urge Lappina, 12th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u58	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to point out, Mr. President, that, after this bill has been voted on, I guarantee that entrepreneurs will not "thank you" to the Supreme Council. In fact, we're going to increase their activity costs, including getting copies of licenses. Because you don't have the illusion that it's a free procedure. Not only is it formally paid, it is also informally paid. Because in fact a copy of the license is obtained in the same order as the license, with all the obstacles. So once again, we have another chance to go back to the concept of deregulation, support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u59	The vote is on the 12th Amendment of Kseniya Llapina, please identify yourself. [[10:49:25]] For-9 Not supported. 13 Amendment, Petaovka does not insist. And the 15th amendment. Xenia Mikhailvna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u60	Thank you, colleagues. I will not insist on the 15 amendments, since the substantive amendments have all failed. But once again, I would like to point out, my dear colleagues, that this is actually the way to increase the financial costs of private entrepreneurs for their activities and to call it reform in no way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u61	Thank you. So we've been through all the repairs. The committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading and in general. The principal legal office has called attention to it and suggests that it be transferred to the second reading again. I'm proposing to a committee to vote on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. [[concerning the order in which to issue a copy of the licence]] [[Registration number 8450]] Please vote. [[10:50:44]] For 252 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Lists of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity. [[on bringing in compliance with the requirements of legislation]] [[Registration number 8792]] [[second reading]] Report to the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Mikhail Chechtov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u62	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished National Deputies, Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 2 November 2011, considered a comparative table for the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Allowances in Economic Activities, adopted on 18 October of this year by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8791]] The purpose of the bill is to introduce separate positions of the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Lawyers and Notary. In preparation for the second reading of the bill, only one amendment was made by the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Taking into account the fact that the amendment of the honourable Jury Anatoliyovich refers to issues of removal from the list of documents of a permissive nature of the permit to enter into a lease on immovable property, the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to sell land owned by the State, the certificate of right to engage in an audit activity that is not subject to a draft law, the bill was rejected, and the Committee proposes the adoption of the law of Ukraine in the first reading. Please support the committee's decision and adopt the law as a whole. And I would like to say to Yuri Anatolevich that, with all due respect for the amendments, the committee is simply considering but considered that they are not relevant to the law, and if they are to be introduced, it is not precisely the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u63	Thank you. 100 percent of the amendments are not counted. One repair of Carmazin is not included. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u64	Yuri Carmazin. Adam Ivanovich, it's really sad, I'll tell you why. So I'm showing you the whole bill, it's on the same page, well, not on the same page, on a few lines. I ask for paragraphs 118, 119 to replace paragraphs 15, 84, 118, 119 and 123. In my uniform, I was pretty much turned down, essentially wrong. Because I propose to exclude from the list of documents, in addition to the right to legal activity and the right to practice notarial activity, such documents as the right to be employed by an auditor, paragraph 123 of the list, since they appear to be an auditorium that is not a public body, or the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to sell property-owned land. And you understand well that this is to be satisfied. Another question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u65	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u66	Thank you. I'm done. Can we get out of the 116th Rules? Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, in this case we are making changes, we have to go beyond. And you understand this very well as one of the leaders of the majority, that 116 parts of the Rules become a barrier to progress, and today it leads to the producing of butterfly laws, such as, you know, just once, the stepping up of legislation, and it nullifies the role of committees completely to statisticians. It's wrong, it needs to be reviewed. And people have to understand that taxpayers keep this Parliament in order for the committees to work, work seriously, and not just work with that proposal, make amendments to this paragraph. I think it's fundamentally wrong. Because of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u67	Thank you. The first amendment, Carmazine, is to vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:55:18]] For-22. Correction not supported. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt, in a second reading and in general, the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activity. [[The Chief Legal Authority took note without notice]] [[on bringing in compliance with the requirements of legislation]] [[Registration number 8791]] Please vote. [[10:55:57]] For 252 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering: a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8130-d]] [[second reading]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u68	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee prepared a new edition of the Customs Codex for consideration in the second reading. I want to remind you that the process of working on this document has been going on for another year.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u69	Vitaly Yuriovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I apologize. We need to organize the work of the Counting Commission so that we can get to the vote at 12th, and I'd like to hear the head of the Counting Commission now, and then we'll continue with that. Sorry, Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u70	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u71	Please, Mikola Haritonovich Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u72	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! There was a meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council. Of the 19 members of the Counting Commission, 13 were present, that is, the meeting of the commission is valid. At its meeting, the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Counting Committee approved the form of a ballot paper, a white - paper ballot in the form of a black - colored rectangle. One candidature was submitted to the secret ballot for the appointment of the Constitutional Court judge, Pasenjuk Aleksandr Mihajlovich. If you support this candidature, mark the box opposite its name. If not supported, make the box below. I also remind you that it is only necessary to make one mark, according to your will, otherwise the ballot will be considered invalid. The vote will take place from 12 to 13 hours in the second floor towers at the registration desks of Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u73	No questions asked to the head of the Counting Commission? None. I mean, it's all clear. You've seen the bulletin. The vote will take place from 12 to 13 hours, from 12 to 13 hours, there, as usual, where we always go through the registration, there will be a registration to get the ballots, there will be an urn on the way out for secret expression. Why, dear colleagues, 12 to 13? Because the Rules require that no less than an hour be allowed to vote in secret. We're following the Rules. Yes, please continue to consider the matter. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich Homettinick Bill 8130-d
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u74	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I'll continue the report. I want to remind you that the new edition of the Customs Code and the adoption of this particular text is due to the fact that we adopted the Code seven years ago. and, in fact, no changes in this document, the system document that regulates customs procedures and many other matters related to customs matters have changed, although international practice, international legal instruments have already changed on a number of occasions, namely: in 2002 Ukraine joined the International Convention on the Harmonization of Frontier Controls of Goods, in 2004 joined the Istanbul Convention, in 2006, Ukraine joined the Kyoto Convention, and in 2005 the World Customs Organization adopted the World Customs Organization Framework for the Safety and Facilitation of World Trade, and in 2008 Ukraine joined the World Trade Organization. And finally, in 2008, the new Customs Code of the European Union was adopted, including that also pushed into the work that was actually done during the year. In the end, we took into account most of the proposals made by the people’s deputies. Proposals were made by 44 national deputies, about two thousand amendments. But most of these amendments were taken into account, either edited or aligned with the National Deputies, because we held a lot of working groups, held repeated public hearings, talked and consulted with professional associations, both Ukrainian and international, and also joined international experts who worked with us for three months in Parliament and in the Committee. In the final edition, there is also support for those positions that the Mine Service stood for, in some positions, in some positions we found compromise. In the end, let's say yes, options, I think we've come up with more or less of a compromise. Most importantly, it meets all the criteria of international practice, international conventions and European legislation. The committee is therefore ready to consider the new edition of the Customs Code in an articley second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. We're working on the amendments. 1st amendment counted. The 2nd doesn't count. Don't the authors insist? No, it's not. Carmazine, 7th is down. Don't you insist? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u76	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear Mr. Vitalia! I want to stress what I suggested, I disagreed with paragraph 5. This item is now deleted. It's just off. So actually my amendment is taken into account, let's say, editorially, because I didn't agree with it. Therefore, there is no need to insist on voting or even to say it. I just wanted to recommend, Vitalia Juryovich, that in such situations it is necessary to write what is considered editorially, because I was against the ridiculous point that has now been removed. I wanted to fix it, or I wanted to change it. So in such cases you have to write it like that, you wouldn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u77	In fact, I confirm that your proposal is edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, Yuri Anatolyovich does not insist. The following changes. Bogslayev 12th rejected. Don't insist. Carmazine, 21st.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u79	21 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. Similarly, there was an attempt at the first edition to write down what "other payments and their definition" is. When I saw that, let's say, it didn't exactly fit the common sense, I suggested a different edition, because it couldn't have existed. What did the committee do? The committee ruled out this item. Because of this similar situation, Vitali Juryovich took place. And I want to tell you that in this project, it's healthy, it's almost three kilograms -- it's 1955 amendments. And this great work was done by the committee, and I understand, which is why I'm going to criticize them so softly because they were doing a serious job and they're going to make a mistake here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u80	Yuri Anatolyevich, I take it you don't insist on your amendments anymore? Wrong. Then you're 29.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I appreciate your humor, especially today, the focus on such a serious document. In fact, the amendment that 29 refers to what I propose in defining the notion of "mind rules" to delete the words "commercial purpose" and beyond the text. Because I want the "washing rules," I think they should be distributed to any means of transport that move across borders. Not as the committee understands it, distinguishing the notion of "goods," "commercial means of transport." I think it has to be distributed to any means of transport so there's no abuse or corruption. Because of this, Vitaly Yuriovich, I'm very sorry that you didn't take this amendment into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u82	But you don't insist on voting? Right. Thank you. 34th, Kinach. Don't insist. 44th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin. The amendment refers to the proposal - article 1, paragraph 46, delete by renumbering the items. Since, according to the previous paragraph, paragraph 45, the terms “the right of intellectual property”, “the right of the right” and “the intellectual property right” are used in the sense of intellectual property laws. And the term "owner's right" in paragraph 46 refers to intellectual property rights. As a result, I believe that the committee is making a serious mistake that has a theoretical basis. And I think you should consider my amendment, Vitaly Yuriovich. It's better for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u84	Yuri Anatolyevich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u85	Thank you. I want them to understand that it's very thin matter. Terms of intellectual property rights, subjects of law, intellectual property rights. And we have to define this in the Customs Code. Because they are already defined in existing legislation that is consistent with international legislation. I want this codex not to be seven years old, but at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u86	Thank you. But you don't insist. Let them study theoretically. You insist. 44 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u87	Please back up! [[11:09:37]] For 20 And I supported it. 20. Not counted. Yes, 41 amendments that are included, please, Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u88	Adam Ivanovich, this is the 44th Amendment, my amendment. The point is that in article 1, paragraph 44 is the phrase: "permanent residence" - the term is used in the meaning given in the Tax Code. I'm asking you to delete "the Tax Code" and add "the Ukrainian Foreign Economic Act." This is a technical adjustment here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u89	This proposal is based on a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u90	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u91	41 amendment with clarification. Please vote. [[11:10:38]] For 249 Thank you. An amendment to the details is included. Yes, please, 54th. The horses don't insist. Bondarev, 55th. Don't insist. Yes, please, Carmazin, 63rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u92	Yuri Carmazin. It's about global concepts. I propose in the article, in article 5, paragraph 10, before the word "responsibility" is added to the word "invincibility" and beyond the text. That is to say, there would be the irreversibility of the responsibility of all parties to a relationship governed by this code. And this is about the principles of customs. Because of this, the principle of doing so is the irreversibility of responsibility, not responsibility. So, Mr. Vitaly, well, I don't know why we're doing this, but we're going to live by the same code and study students. Write as Carmazin suggests, or else it is not nice. That's your face. I'm making you better, well, all of us. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u93	61 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:12:22]] For the 15th. Not supported. The 67th Amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u94	66th is an editorial. And the 67 amendment refers to the deletion of the words "the laws of Ukraine on customs matters" in the first part of article 9. I think it's the honor of the national MPs that life will show that they didn't listen to Carmazin. Well, you'll think they didn't listen to judicial reform! Today, there are 603,000 unregistered even administrative matters. That's the price of what's happening here today. And so it will be by every law. You just don't get it right away. So not adults to understand the 67 amendments, the committee. Vitaly Yuriovich, I don't insist on voting. I don't want to spoil my nerves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u95	Thank you. 68 Amendment, China does not insist. 85th, Shevchuk, Strange, Dry don't insist. Please, Voropeyev, 101st. Don't insist. 112th, Shevchuk, Strange, Suhi. Don't insist. 116th, Vasiliev and others. Don't insist. The Queen, 119th, does not insist. The 107th is gone? Where is she? Now, now, now, let me see. Did I stop at your 124th? So, 107th, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Yuri Carmazin. This is about Amendment 107. I would like to stress that the article now says, "Miss control. Customs control organization, general principles of customs control." Part three: Customs control provides for the minimum customs formalities necessary to ensure compliance with Ukrainian customs legislation. Carmazine offers the word "minimum" clean up. Why? Because it is an estimating concept and should not be applied to customs controls, since it is not clear who will determine the minimum, this could lead to abuse by customs authorities and improper performance of their duties. In addition, the necessary number of customs formalities should be implemented, not minimal. It's necessary, I repeat, and I emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u97	Thank you, Yuri Anatoliyovich, for another correct observation, but the committee did not count. 124th, yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin. 124 amendments relate to the amendment to article 34, which is called "Permanence of the stay under customs control". I propose in all parts of this article that the words "commercial assignment" be deleted. Since all goods are subject to customs control in accordance with Article 31, the means of transport moving across the customs territory of Ukraine. Therefore, I ask that the word "commercial appointment" be deleted and I request this amendment, if Vitaly Juryovich does not agree, put to the vote. Because that's the principle of the thing and I'm saying that everything has to be subject to customs control, absolutely everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u99	In principle, 124 amendments to Karmazin will be put to the vote, please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u100	Please back up! [[11:17:15]] For-16 Not supported. Next. Hometic, 145th. Vitaly, 145 doesn't count. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u101	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u102	154th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u103	Yuri Carmazin. Unfortunately, Adam Ivanovich, I want to tell you that the number of people who are familiar with the amendments is extremely small, you know why. Because it was only this morning that you gave these three kilograms of paper. Because of this, Adam Ivanovich, I would like us to keep these deputies somehow, you know, not so many of those who are still working on the laws. In the 154th Amendment, which provides for changes to article 46, which is called the Customs Control Zone, Rule of Law and Order in the Customs Control Zone, we've ruled out the words in the first part of the Commercial Assignment. I'm explaining that this is extremely important because it's about ensuring the rule of law and order in the customs control zone. I see that the hall has not yet reached understanding. Well, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u104	It's your 156th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u105	Yuri Carmazin. 156. The amendment referred to article 46, part three, where the following term was also written: "Providing the safety of goods is, I repeat, ensuring the legality of this article, means of commercial transport moving across the customs border. Compliance with the customs border regime with the rule of law and order in the customs control zone is based on the relevant customs authorities." I propose that the word "commercial purpose" be removed. And who came across the border to, say, the Republic of Belarus, they saw that there was not only a commercial assignment being checked out, but also a circle in the European Union. I think it's wrong that the committee doesn't want to take this amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u106	Yuri Anatolyevich, well, you've already raised this subject. Sadly, she did not. Yeah, but I didn't get any support, so I get it. Thank you. 167 of your repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u107	Yuri Carmazin. 167 amendments refer to amendments to another article, which refers to the article "Customs control form". In article 50, part one, paragraph 2, after the words "commercial means of transport," I propose to add the words "and means of transport for personal use" and then to the text. So it's going to look like a customs review and a review of the goods of commercial goods, manual inspection. The citizen's personal examination, and it's "transports of personal use." Vitaly Yuriovich, I don't know why we're doing this. Well, you don't want to spoil such a good code and then write a note about the President's veto, you just don't want to. But you're fundamentally wrong to reject the amendment of 167 Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u108	168th Carmazine. Please give an argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u109	The 168 amendment of Carmazin refers to the same article 50, only to another part of it, to another point, that is to 3 points. After the words "commercial means of transport," I also believe that the words "and means of transport for personal use" should be used because this is about the accounting of goods of transport moving across the customs border of Ukraine. We're opening a window for abuse, Vitaly Yuriovich, this window for abuse that you want to know about. If we do not now consider this amendment, there will be a gap through which they can then use it, and it will be detrimental to the interests of the State and its economic security.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u110	That's right, but you've talked about it. This subject has already been raised. Sadly, she did not receive support. 178: Shevchuk, Strange, Suhi. Don't insist. 181: Vasilyev and others. Don't insist. 194th, Spanov. Don't insist. 196: Shevchuk, Wonderland, Suhi. Don't insist. 198, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin. This is an amendment to Article 59 of the 198: "Documentary checks on compliance with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation on customs matters, including timeliness, reliability, fullness and payment of customs payments." You know how important this is. And so there's not what's been going on for a long time in Odessa, when all the goods have now gone around Ukraine. And who will be responsible for this? And against whom? It's not Timoshenko, it's not a criminal case. So in the text of article 59, the word "business" is replaced by the words "legal persons or natural persons who are entrepreneurs" in all differences. This will be in line with another of our laws, which is in force today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u112	Thank you. Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear fellow national MPs, I ask you not to interfere with the committee's head to report the bill. Homutinian! I'm calling your attention to doing direct work, not negotiating with national MPs. That's the first one. The other one. I'm asking the National Deputies not to interfere with the report because you're disrupting the adoption of the bill. Everything had to be decided before the committee considered the bill. And here you can only solve things with your corrections and performances. 198th vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:24:40]] For-12. Not supported. Yes, Spanov, 201st. Don't insist. Vasiliev, 208th. Don't insist. 209, Vasiliev. Don't insist. 210th, Shevchuk. Don't insist. Sphinx, 213. Don't insist. 216th, Vasiliev. Don't insist. 219, Kinach. Don't insist. Carmazine, 230.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u113	Dear Adam Ivanovich, there's 222 more before 230. I know you've always had everything, thank God, with math, with arithmetic and with reading. You saw it, didn't you? 222 may I?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u114	222th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u115	Can't I?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u116	You can.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u117	And so, Vitaly Juryovich, I'm also addressing, so please, I've given the principle of amendment. You, well, have not been able to hear them for objective reasons, why the chairman was making remarks. The point is that article 60 refers to interesting things, the basis and order of the customs authorities to carry out documentary exit checks. And it's very important that the word "business" in the article is replaced by the words "legal persons," or "entrepreneurs natural persons" in the same way. Because right now yours is such a laxity legal thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u118	In the next amendment, you'll say. Here? All right, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u119	I'm done. Thank you. Carmazine. Vitali Juryovich, legal indecisiveness can lead to a thousand, and what a thousand, tens of thousands of cases that will apply to this interpretation, because you only recorded businesses, and legal persons or natural persons entrepreneurs, you didn't fit it. Do you understand that you're giving an extended interpretation instead of the Constitutional Court and instead of the law? You shouldn't do that. Write it down in the version I'm offering. He's needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u120	Thank you. 222 amendments to the vote, please specify. [[11:27:32]] For-16 Not supported. Yeah, 230, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u121	What did you give me?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u122	230th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u123	230th. Yuri Carmazin. In Amendment 230, I want to stop the misinterpretation by the committee, and it's about conducting the tests. And I want to see when the code says that it's about an enterprise, and you come to a natural person, it's going to send you very far, and it's going to do very well. In order for this not to happen, I suggest you switch terms to other words, write down that legal persons or natural persons entrepreneurs, this is not an enterprise. The person to whom you come to conduct a physical examination is not a physical person. Isn't that what you want to understand? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm addressing Mr. Chechtov, well, you're a doctor of science, I'm asking you to apply your economic knowledge here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u124	Yeah, 230th. Don't insist. Are you insisting? 230 votes, please. [[11:29:09]] For-21 Not supported. And, dear fellows, we need to get back to the 206th Amendment. The Homutinic amendment is included. Please, what kind of clarification?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u125	I'd like to make it clear, that's my amendment. It's about article 60, paragraph 7, paragraph 2, the words "discovered facts" or "documental information has been received that indicates a possible violation of Ukrainian laws", then in the text. I'm asking you to delete the word "possible." I mean, just leave "which indicates a violation" and then continue to follow the text. That this might be such an interpretation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u126	Be careful, the 206 amendment is supported by the author’s position. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:30:11]] For 266 Supported. Thank you. Carmazine, 234th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u127	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I have made 49 amendments to this codex. Some of them are counted, some of them are not. I'm going to watch, I'm going to watch every correction that's been taken into account, not counted, including those Lobby amendments that are counted, and why they don't sometimes let the committee head work. But given that the 1950 Amendments Act, and I see that most of them are not ready to support my amendments, I want to save the time of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and I will not insist on them right now. But I leave the right to appeal to the President of Ukraine on veto matters if, in principle, serious things are not included in the rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u128	Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you for your time. For my part, I promise that I will repay you in a positive way. The following changes. Kinach, 244. Don't insist. 246th, Spanov. Don't insist. 252th, Vasiliev and others. Don't insist. Karykov, 268th. Don't insist. Kinach, 275. Don't insist. Carmazine doesn't insist. 295th, Carmazin. Don't insist. 299th, too. Don't insist. 302: Shevchuk, Suhi. They insist. 313 of them. Don't insist. 323rd. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, members of the Counting Commission, please meet immediately in the 5th room, and you need to resolve some questions. Members of the Counting Commission, the head of the Counting Commission invites you to the 5th room. 343, Homutinic. Overruled. Don't insist. Vasiliev, 345th. Don't insist. Carmazine doesn't insist. Vasilyev and others are 368th and 369th. Don't insist. 371 is theirs. 393th -- these authors, too. Overruled. 427: Vasilyev and others. Don't insist. 431, Suhi. Don't insist. Hometic, 433?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u129	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u130	Don't insist. Vasilyev and others, 435. Don't insist. Yes, Voropeyev, 453rd. Don't insist. Shevchuk, Suhi. Don't insist. Sphinx, 460. Don't insist. Vasiliev, 461st. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that here most amendments are made by non - insistent authors, perhaps we should do so. I'd like to ask those authors who think that we need to consider some amendments, and I'd like to take this up, and then we'll listen to the committee, what questions and we'll be able to determine, no objections? Then please, the Kings. Call the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u131	Amendment 1054.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u132	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u133	1054.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u134	No, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u135	And no one wants more.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u136	Now, now. There's a note, yes, 1054. Is that in the second book?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u137	Adam Ivanovich, perhaps?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u138	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u139	Part four is proposed to be supplemented by the words: "Performance of customs control and customs formalities in respect of goods, commercial means of transport moving across the customs border of Ukraine, including through electronic documents, electronic declaration by means of technical means, control, etc." So it's a technical right. Indeed, it has been forgotten to include it because it is the electronic document exchange that will help exporters and importers today. Is it accepted?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u140	Yes, please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u141	The committee confirms that this is really a technical amendment. Therefore, I would like to support the proposal made by the Royal People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u142	Vitaly Yuriovich, so what are we doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u143	Put 1054 votes to the vote for confirmation and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u144	Yes, please, the Kings.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u145	Also suggested in this article is part twenty-third, which reads as follows: "Customs infrastructure management, customs border development." The administrative function, it was just lost, too. Therefore, add this amendment to the same article.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u146	Vitali Juryovich, are we putting these amendments to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u147	1054 amendments, please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u148	1054 is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u149	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u150	Please vote. [[11:36:57]] For 264 Confirmed amendment. Karskov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u151	Amendment 1125, article 592. We suggest the title of the article in the next edition. Article 592 "The Specialities of Service Admission to Customs Authorities of the Organizations", and we add "specialized educational institutions of the Customs Service of Ukraine and the Scientific Research Institute of the Customs Service of Ukraine." We just lost a technically important customs administration there. And in this regard, since we are adding specialized customs and customs research institutions here, it is necessary to implement this code through all the articles that were technically related to this: 592 part one, third; 592 part one, third; 593 part two; 594 in title; 595 in part five, eighth; 596 in part one and second; 597 in part two, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u152	Stop, please. Stop, stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u153	Adam Ivanovich, here's what I'd like to say. We can't now, maybe these are things that need to be considered, but you, as a substitute for the head of the committee of profile finance and banking, tax and customs policy, have had the opportunity to deal with these issues on the committee, because we actually worked a year. That's why we're not doing it in a voice right now. Because the text is balanced, handled by a committee of lawyers, experts, including customs. That's why we're not doing it right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand? This is made out of a voice. Who has a note of the amendments? Who else? Volkov, do you think or who? I can't see, I'm sorry. Huh? It's a piglet word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u155	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the 1946 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u156	Now. Wait. There is another point to this amendment. Now, now, dear colleagues, now, now. Piglet, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, there is an article proposal, an amendment, an amendment, an amendment, 2889, which is on page 522 in the second book. Pinchuck's correction is taken into account. It's got the words "except for the potency." But there's an offer to leave it in the first reading without adding this "except for the under-taxation." What's the committee's opinion? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u157	Yes, we support. But that's not 2,000. Because we have 1959. It's a thousand, the first digit is a thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u158	So, honourable colleagues, in order to go through the formality, I'm putting 2889 amendments to the confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u159	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u160	No, no, Vitaly Yuriovich. Oh, for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u161	For confirmation. [[11:40:42]] For-0 Dear colleagues, thank you. I mean, I'm gonna say it again. In article 386, the words “except the tax collectors” were added to the second reading. These words, "except for the excise," are taken from the final line. Yes, please, Praslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u162	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I insist on voting my amendment for 1946.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u163	1946?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u164	1946, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u165	Yes, please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich! In fact, this proposal, she was, she heard. We talked to the government this morning. It's about giving the opportunity without a moment to import spare parts for the agro-industrial complex, which are not produced in Ukraine. For harvesting combustibles and other agricultural techniques. Therefore, a request to support our colleague Prasololov’s offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u167	Yes, respectable colleagues, that is to say, need support. So is this an item or an amendment? What is the correction? It's a 1946 amendment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u168	1946.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u169	Now, now, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, my fellow officers, and I'm there when we voted with you for the amendment, it was 2889, I'm sorry, and amendment 1204. This is a refinement for the stenographer. And now we're looking at 1900, it's already in the third book, probably.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u170	Adam Ivanovich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u171	Now, Yuri, it's Jura, now, now, Yuri. Carmagine, please, word while I'm looking for an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u172	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I promised not to take the word for it, but here it is. By January 1, 2017, materials, nodes, aggregates or composite products imported into customs territory by domestic machinery and agro-industry enterprises are being offered, i.e. individual machinery, agro-industries separately, if these goods are not produced. But they will never be produced if we do! That's the first one. And the second. Is that the norm of this law?Oh, my God! Is this the subject of this law?Oh, my God! You know it's not that law, it's not a subject, it's not the Customs Code at all. Mr. Vitaly, you know very well that this is not the norm of this law, it should not be included and considered at all. What's more, it smells really stupid. I'll tell you right now, this is a norm that smells like something that needs to be closed in Ukraine and how the papayas are going to bring it all in. I do not want Ukraine to be renamed a papaya and against us.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u173	I'll comment on two words. This is an exclusive list of products that are not produced in Ukraine and that are approved separately by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Indeed, I agree with you that this is not the norm of the Customs Code, but the law, the title of the law, says that these are changes to the customs law and other legislative acts of Ukraine, including a series of bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u174	Yes, dear fellows. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u175	These are transitional positions, of course. I bet, I bet. Then when we finally vote, I'll tell you what we'll do with them. Amendment 1946 Presololova is voting. Please vote. [[11:44:34]] For 255 Counted. More, please. Bachtieva? Please, Bachtieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, please delete paragraph 29 from the section “The Final Position”, which proposes to amend article 17 of the Law “On Medicines” and not to consider an amendment, because this will lead to a significant deterioration in the provision of quality medicines to the population and health institutions, especially since today we will consider a new edition of the Law “On Medicines”. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u177	Aunt Dmitrovna, just please tell me what the amendment is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u178	29, para.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u179	I ask you once again, not the 29th article, but the amendment, the number of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u180	Paragraph 29 of the Final Regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u181	Aunt Dmitrovna, I ask you once again to call the amendment number - it's 1,100, 2500 and so on. I'm having a hard time finding 29 points. That's what's written in the middle, the amendment number and who's the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u182	This paragraph 29, which appeared at the second reading of the Final Regulations, is not on the first reading, appeared at the second reading, paragraph 29, “Final position”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u183	Aunt Dmitrovna, I don't have 29 points, I have the amendment numbers. So please give me the number of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u184	There's no number.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u185	Oh, there's no number. There's no ride if there's no number. Vitali may be able to help me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u186	Unfortunately, I can't help it, because I'm also heading for the roofs, and there's about 2,000 of them here. If we were to say the correct thing, we'd be oriented. But I cannot find this point so quickly, and what article is this article to which law? So let's probably move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u187	Chevchuk, please, microphone. Dear colleagues, a little quieter, because you can't understand what you're talking about. Please, Sergei. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u188	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Well, it's very serious stuff. The point is, there's been a very important mistake in the draft of this law. The point is that "Transients" has a paragraph on the amendment of the Law on Medical Devices, and especially in the part where new medical devices are registered. The medics who had not considered this bill on their profile committee had just seen that it was the Customs that would be involved in the registration of new, newly created medical devices in Ukraine. Well, it's a complete paradox, it's an illogical decision. Customs has no experts, no institutions, no experience, nothing. Clearly their desire to do this, but in this case, I think that's going to be the basis for the veto. Let's make it right now so that we don't vote for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u189	Yes, dear colleagues, I'm very sorry to hear that. Rather, I thank Karmazin for helping me with what those who oppose should do. I'm telling you, this is Amendment 1897, so this is Amendment 1897 of Pinchuck, which is counted. Please have the committee's opinion and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u190	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I can responsibly say that the text has been worked out and is as consistent as possible with norm-setting technology, with legal questions, with questions about those who were members of the national parliaments, and correspondingly with the customs service, the Cabinet of Ministers. And it would be useful, in my opinion, if there is a wish, to join this work in the future before we look at it in the hall. We adopted this law six months ago on our first reading. Now we've come to vote for the second reading -- and a lot of people are just starting to take an interest in some amendments or other.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, Tetjana Dmitrovna, believes that the amendment of 1897 by colleague Pinchuk, who is included, needs support. So I'm voting on amendment 1897 for support. Please vote. [[11:50:24]] For 268. The amendment remains. Yeah, some more. Also, dear colleagues, what are the suggestions? Dear colleagues, who else insists? Then, dear colleagues, in this way, all the amendments that have been made, we have considered with you. There is such an offer. Given that we are now adopting not only the Customs Code, but we are adopting amendments to many of the laws in force relating to the Customs Code, there is a proposal to do so as we have always done: that we are adopting a basic document, the Customs Code Act, and the second law on amending laws in connection with the adoption of this Customs Code. Do you understand, Your Honor? So now we're going to vote in favour of the law that he's offering us, but in final preparation for the President's signature, we're going to divide this law into two: there's going to be the Customs Code Act and there's going to be a law to make changes to one or the other laws, that's one thing. And so let's first vote for adoption in the second reading and in the whole law by number.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u192	No repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u193	Yes, please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u194	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, three positions literally to complete, to complete the final consideration of this issue, so that the technical and legal administration will be more comfortable working on this project by the end of the legal system. First of all, where it comes from diplomats.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u195	Vitaly Yuriovich, please come closer to the microphone. I can't hear you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u196	Now, a minute. Given the fact that many national MPs I just have a table already. Article 399, paragraph 8, of the text: “goods whose total invoice value exceeds the equivalent of ten thousand euros which are transferred to the customs territory of Ukraine in international postal shipments, in international express shipments in unaccompanied baggage”, after “y.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u197	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u198	Add after express-delivery "in the handcuff of the escort" and then after "in the unaccompanied baggage."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u200	It's a technical clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u201	I'm putting this clarification to the vote. Please support, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u202	Please be supportive. [[11:53:53]] For 243
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u203	Supported. Supported. How many more editorials are there?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u204	Next, the next question is the position as far as transport vehicles are being imported by diplomats working outside our country. Today, this rule is that if a diplomat makes money abroad, he can import 50 percent of the money he earns without paying any taxes into our country’s territory by means of a means of transport, an easy means of transport. And this norm, it actually stays in the text, but some of the clarifications that were made in the second. The second reading is page 552, which lists the conditions under which the worker may receive such benefits. The text reads: (a) the diplomatic service is the owner of these goods, i.e. the means of transport; (b) the goods were purchased by a diplomatic service worker within the period of departure; and (c) that the total cost of the goods does not exceed 50 per cent. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next word. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next word. after c), starting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, calm down! Calm down! Calm down! Calm down. Yes, Vitaly Yuriovich, please call the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u206	Once again, article 399.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u207	Yes. Item?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u208	Item "v". paragraph 11, “v”, sub-paragraphs 2 and 3. Paragraph two and three requests for a vote on the deletion of these standards. Exclusion of these standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u209	The second and third paragraphs were deleted. This is a proposal I'm putting to the vote. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u210	A request for support. [[11:56:22]] For 233
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u211	Yeah, 233.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u212	So we left it as it is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u213	Like working standards. Anything else, Vitaly Yuriovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u214	This is the position of the President's Administration that was taking place this morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u215	Everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u216	All of it. Then there was the amendment, which was voted on. Bacheteva, the national deputy, and Korz were raised. If the insistence is put to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u217	Bayayev, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, I ask you to be very careful about the amendment that you just found: 1897, the People's Deputy of Pinchuk. Who also agrees not to vote for her. It amends the Law on Medicines of Ukraine, which will change, worsen the quality of imported drugs in Ukraine. If today the matter is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, the State Service, then if this amendment is voted on, the Customs Service will be in charge of registering the drugs. Today, the state service is 400 people and has laboratory super-modern equipment that controls the quality of imported drugs. There is no need to vote on this amendment. Today we will consider a new edition of the Drug Law, where everything will be legalized on its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, we've already voted on it. Amendment 1897 received 268 votes. I suggest you do it this way. We leave it as it is. The committee, along with the Chief Legal Authority, will see that if it actually falls out of the text and so forth, and so on, we have the norm of Rule 131, which allows us to clarify this rule before we finally refer to the President's signature. Because right now, I'm sorry, every group that represents some kind of financial and industrial interest is trying to solve their problems. Let us no longer return to this amendment. There is 131 articles of the Rules that will enable us to resolve this. We've already voted on it. So, dear colleagues, once again, if you'll excuse Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'll finish, I'll finish what we talked about. It is now suggested that the law should be voted on as a whole, with the final conclusion that it should be divided into two. I am voting on the proposal to amend the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Bill 8130-d]] Please vote. [[12:00:00]] For 270. Thank you. And let us vote in favour of the commission of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy for the participation of the Chief Legal Authority to draw up two laws following the consideration of the bill: the Customs Code of Ukraine and the Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Customs Code of Ukraine with effect from 1 January 2012. In doing so, the Customs Code of Ukraine's Final Positions should provide for a loss of validity of the Ukrainian Customs Code of 11 July 2002. And entrust the Chief Legal Authority with technical and legal editing. I ask the committee to vote for this. Vote. [[12:01:03]] For 274 Thank you. For 274. Decision taken. Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone. Dear colleagues, there's a delay in the Counting Commission right now, so I'd like to ask that we wait for the Counting Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u220	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor Chairman Adam Ivanovich, you've done a great job today, and the hard work of 1947 amendments is a lot. And even on the surface, we've been through a lot. But we, we have a daily Customs Code and other legislation. And to share, to allow, to delegate to the judiciary, and to someone else, we have no right, this is our function, the Supreme Council. We're the only ones who have a right around here, even a point here, and we have someone to share it with and so forth. I, for example, have no such constitutional authority and no one has. Because of this, and the 1897 amendment, which was mistakenly included, because of the noise that was here, was voted because, contrary to 116 articles of the Rules in general, there were no changes, this was not about medical devices. It's harmful. That's why I had to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, here's the head of the Counting Commission, let's not waste any time, let's consider a bill amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. [[on the admission of medical devices to international standards]] The rapporteur is Head of the Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachteyev Health Committee. Come on. Dear colleagues, this is the second reading you're talking about. Look at what we're talking about first, please. Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you that during the recess we will be voting on the election of the judge of the Constitutional Court, will be a recess for an hour, as required by the Rules. And you can solve all the problems. Aunt Dmitrovna, please, Bacheva. Well, I just got off the phone with Tetian Dmitrovna. There is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u222	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, draft law amending article 9 of the Law on Medicines of Ukraine on the Registration of Medicines to International Standards, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was adopted by the Supreme Council on 19 April 2011. I would like to recall that the bill seeks to regulate the issue of the admission to the market of medicines and to strike a balance between the protection of intellectual property rights and the possibility of providing affordable and quality medicines for Ukrainian citizens. In preparation for the second reading, 13 amendments were made to the Committee by the people's deputies: Karmazin Jurija Anatolievich - 4 amendments; Gajdaeva Jurija Aleksandrović - 3; Karpuka Vladimir Georgievic - 1; and Bachtejevo - 5 amendments. 9 amendments, rejected 4. Respectable colleagues, prepared by the Health Committee for second reading, will be able to address a number of very relevant issues in the area of drug provision, namely, the removal of artificial barriers to the registration of generic drugs to date.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u223	Aunt Dmitrovna, let's do some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u224	Let's do some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u225	But you were adamant when you took it as a base. The first amendment is taken into account in an editorial way. No objections? I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u226	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u227	Hajdajev, the amendment is rejected. Do you mind? No, it's not. Yes, Amendment 4. Carmazine, please, microphone. Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u228	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Aunt Dmitrovna, I have such an observation. I suggested writing down the words "which, according to Ukrainian legislation in the field of intellectual property, are not recognized as a violation of the rights of the patent holder" to replace the words "which do not result from a violation of the rights of the patent owner." Why? Because it is the consequences that we need to speak, and it is important to us as lawyers. It's because of this, it didn't affect, let's say, form, but it substantially changes the legal content of this law. That's why I don't understand why you rejected this amendment. There is no threat to the substance of the Law on Medical Devices. You should have been satisfied, Aunt Dmitry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u229	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich! The Committee's proposed revision of Part Two is already in line with articles 30 and 31 of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Invention and useful models that already define conditions, cases, procedures for the enforcement of the right to invention or a useful model. Including in cases of health and epidemics. So, well, you don't have to duplicate what's long since been legitimized.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u230	A fourth amendment is put to the vote, the author is Yuri Karmazin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:07:40]] For-12. Correction not supported. Amendment 5 of Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u231	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Aunt Dmitry! The table says that the fifth amendment is rejected. But you actually counted it. You changed this part of the article. But write what you've taken into account in part. See, I'm worried about every correction. And if you've written, considering the fact that you've turned down, well, you know, you're not feeling well inside. Whatever you want to improve, it's probably not the right thing to do. That's why I wrote, the word "individual" exclude. Because it's a stupid thing, "especially a monopoly dominant position," was written. You just deleted it. Thank God, say, "Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich." And I'm going to take it the right way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u232	The vote is amended by five, author Yuri Karmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u233	It's counted, it's not needed, it's not necessary. It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u234	She's off the vote. All of it. It's all clear, I heard yes. Correction. Are you ready to report? Are you ready to report? But let him not go, let him stand there, for he will run again. Amendment number 12. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Thus, honourable national deputies, the committee suggests that the second reading and generally as a law be adopted. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices on the admission of medical devices to international standards. Please vote. [[12:09:56]] For 274 Dear colleagues, for 274, the law is passed. Since the Counting Commission has prepared everything for the vote, we will now proceed to the vote. I ask that the Head of the Counting Commission once again tell you where to go, how to go, how to fill in the ballots and how to fill them, if he supports or does not support the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court. The head of the Counting Commission, Mikola Schershun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u235	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u236	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u237	The reckoning committee has already completed its preparatory work. As I said before, the vote will take place at the registration table, that is, 12.15 to 13.15, an hour. So in five minutes, we can go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u238	Dear National Deputies! An interval of up to 13 hours is announced for 15 minutes for the election of the Constitutional Court Judge. Please, the distinguished national deputies, are organized to carry out their constitutional duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the session room, we'll continue our meeting. There's a meeting of the Conciliation Council, so the faction leaders and the Chief of the Supreme Council are there. And you and I are discussing issues related to the election of judges. Yes, please report to the Head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Samsin Igor Leonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u240	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! According to article 76, part three, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of the Act, as well as a review of the application of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities for the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who came to the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine on a stand-by basis at the time of the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to be elected as judges on an indefinite basis. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, I submit the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u241	Please, Decree 9382.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u242	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Nesvetov Nadija Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Vinnitsky district of Zajev Andrija Yuriovich, Panasuka Aleksandra Sergiyovich, Stadjnik Igor Mihajlovich, Shemet Tetjana Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of Zaporozhye District of Zabiaco, Julius Georgieva, Trophim Diane Anatoliyevna; the Court of Appeal of Johno-Frankiv District of Shalaut Galin Ivanovna; The Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Pashenko Larissa Viktorovna, Stakhov Natalija Volodymyrna; the Court of Appeal of the Suman district of Levchenko Tetjana Afanasyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Command of Roman Tarasovich; the Court of Appeal of the Supreme Igor Viktorovich, Cinderelly Ruslan Alexiyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Cherniewec Region of Marchuk Valeri Trochymovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u243	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have not seen any comments on the candidates offered, so I am voting on the Order on the Election of Judges on an indefinite basis at number 9382. Please vote. [[13:25:23]] For 264 It's been decided. We've been chosen by the judges. Thank you. Let us welcome the chosen judges and wish them success in their work. [[Applause]] Consider the question of the release of judges. Reported the head of the High Council of Justice, Koleschenko Volodymyr Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u244	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! What bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u245	The bill is now 9300.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u246	The draft Decision on the release of Vasa’s Lilia Anatoliyevni from the office of Judge of the Kirov District Court of Dnipropetrovska in connection with the breach of an oath. [[No. 9300]] I'm informing you that this question is being discussed for the second time. At Lilia's meeting, Anatoly's present. At the last meeting of the High Council of Justice, 224 votes were not enough. The Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting confirmed its decision of March 1, 2011, asking for support for the release of the designated judge from office for breach of oath. I'm informing you that on June 2, 2011, Vasina's complaint was brought before the Supreme Administrative Court. Acts of the High Council of Justice are wrongly declared, and we insist on supporting them. Please support the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u247	Yes, thank you. Corge, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u248	Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, as I have just been approached by the lawyer of Litvinov Hennady Mikolaiovich, who reports on behalf of the generalised people that today will decide on the issue of the election and the release of judges. The Supreme Council is invited and the judge of the Kyrow district of Dnipropetrovska Vasina Lilia Anatolievna, who for thirteen years has been forced to defend her integrity and integrity against slanders, lies, and complaints against the former presiding court of appeal, Mr. Vikhrov, who have no basis for which she could be brought to disciplinary responsibility, or dismissed from office of judge. Members of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine conspired with their conscience, for that is what Koleshniko Volodymir Mikolaiovich said, or so wishes Mr. Vikhrov. How long can this go on? What happened to judicial authority? An honest judge who works conscientiously.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u249	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u250	As for the conspiracy, I want to make some comments, and I'm reminding you that the High Council of Justice has decided to apply for the release of Vassina from office. The point is that there was an appeal by the State Property Fund of Ukraine of the Dnipropetrov region to KP "Central Market" and the citizens of Sheppilova or Shepilo. The judge considered the matter in violation of the defendant’s case, after the decision had been made and the external requirements were met in her acquittal, in fact, changed the court’s decision and met the requirements of the reply, which is a more severe violation of the procedural law. In addition, the judge, in favor of securing the lawsuit, stopped the work of the Dnipropetrov District Council, and during the month the work was suspended. So I don’t even know how to comment on such violations and give them excuses. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u251	Yes, dear colleagues, let's, if you want to speak with Vasa, we'll give her the opportunity. Please come to the microphone. Step to the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u252	Deputies! I've been talking to you. On July 7 the issue was considered at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am very grateful that you believed and did not decide on my dismissal because I did not violate the judge’s oath. I carry out my duties in good faith in accordance with current legislation. With regard to this decision, which we are told again by Koleschenko Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, that one of my decisions has not been overturned, it is in the power that the plea has also not been overturned. They have become valid, and they are subject to applicable legislation. The Ukrainian Constitution is subject to implementation in Ukraine. As far as that is concerned. We have in accordance with the law in force to establish a legal decision or an illegal decision, maybe only a higher-ranking institution, or the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court. These decisions have not been overturned. However, the Supreme Council of Justice concluded that they were not legal. In the last session, using what we have now. In view of the fact that the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which was adopted on July 30 last year, unfortunately, the Supreme Council cannot refuse to offer the High Council of Justice a final release of the judge, regardless of the fact that, in accordance with article 126 of the Constitution, only the body that elected him can be dismissed from office of judge. In accordance with the same Constitution, the Supreme Council elects judges to serve as judges on an indefinite basis. However, in view of the Court of Justice Act, the Supreme Council is now unable to make such a decision. However, I very much ask you to repeat your decision that has not been made. On July 7, this year, a collective decision was taken by the Supreme Council to refer materials to me for a re-examination of the High Council of Justice in order to consider the new circumstances that were not taken into account by the Supreme Council in its decision. And I have also been accused of this decision to the Supreme Administrative Court, but within the limits of the decision rendered by the High Council. These materials were made, but unfortunately, I was at a private reception at Vladimir Mikolaiovich and asked them to review the decision. I've made a request for review. However, no one looked at it again. In violation of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, I am not the one who, without my participation, was examined on September 27 and not even invited or informed that this issue would be considered by the Higher Council of Justice. And in accordance with the Higher Council Law, all matters relating to individuals are dealt with with by its message and by its participation. And only in case of repeated non-existence.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u253	Yes, thank you, for explaining the laws -- we know them. So please let's do it this way. If you want to make a statement, one minute from the faction, please sign up. One minute from the faction. Sign up, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yes, please, Carmazine. Then there's Korz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u254	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I have a question for Lilia Anatolyevna Vasina. Lilia Anatolyevna, I respect your opinion, I read it, I listened to it. But I'm looking at the legal court, what is it? There is now an existing decision by the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine that confirmed that the High Council of Justice has made a well-founded decision on your dismissal. I'm just giving a legal assessment right now. How can you leave the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine to work today, please explain to me from the point of view of the Constitution or some other law. Now, even if the Supreme Council does that, I just can't understand how you see it, please explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u255	To date, I have filed a complaint with the European Court of Justice. I'm sure this decision will be overturned. But I also want to point out that if I have been challenged by the decision of the High Council within the limits of the arguments that have been considered. We have such a concept in our legislation as consideration, consideration of decisions under new circumstances. And I'm asking you, as decided by the Supreme Council on 7 July this year, to send materials and allow the High Council of Justice to review this decision under the new circumstances. This is not indicated in the Supreme Council Law, but it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u256	Thank you. Please, Korge is handing Moses over.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u257	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, I address you not only in the case of Judge Vassina but also in the case of Judge Ogurtsov. I would like to refer to the members of the Supreme Council, the Ukrainians, that the Court of First Instance, listen, the Kyiv administration has forbidden the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to meet at the Plenary and the judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to participate in the sessions of the Plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. We've reformed, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. So this judge, I think, is far less guilty than the one I'm talking about, Mr. Ogurtsov. Please consider this an appeal by my deputy to you, to the High Council of Justice, and to settle with the "guaranteed," they have more sin than this judge. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u258	Yes, thank you. Question completed. I'll put it to a vote. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u259	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u260	I'm sorry, Mikhail. The thing is, there's not two and two here, and there's a faction record. And all those who signed up have the opportunity to speak. Whoever didn't sign up, I'm sorry. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u261	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I think we have received completely comprehensive, reliable information from the first lips. This enables the sessional room to make an impartial, politically uninvolved decision within the framework of the Constitution, the law. The result will be on the board in a few seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u262	Who said "Reform" was there? Or else. Mogilov, please. BobiIov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u263	Dear colleagues, I have personally known Judge Vasin for more than 10 years. I was the head of the Kirov Reyodd, Dnepropetrovska, and she was the judge of the Kirov region. He's a highly professional decent judge. She's a militia man. We knew her and the police, she worked the investigation. He was a fine professional investigator. That's my opinion. I won't vote for her resignation myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u264	I am voting for the order number 9300 on the release of Vasa Lydia Anatoliyovna from the office of Judge of the Kirov District Court of Dnipropetrovsk in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Please vote. [[13:37:57]] For 236 It's been decided. We're looking at draft regulation 9300-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u265	On the release of the Torchinsky Ludmila Alexandrovna from office of the judge of the Odessa Economic Court in connection with the violation of an oath. There's no judge in the hall. It's the first time it's been called. There's a telegram about the message being sent to the Secretary of the Republic of Malta. I suggest we postpone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u266	Is that a delay?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u267	In connection with the indisposition. She didn't show up for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u268	First time. Okay. Then please, 9300-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u269	Draft decision 9300-2 on the dismissal of judges. The Supreme Council of Justice, acting in accordance with the Act on the Higher Council of Justice, as well as the powers conferred by the Constitution of Ukraine, shall submit the application for the dismissal of judges: Makarova Jurija Mikolaiovich, The Intercession of Vasil Alexiyovich, Judges of the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region; Tatarchuk Vasil Grigorovitch is the Court of Appeal in Ternopil district; The Yellow District Court of the Horn of Kree Dnipropetrovsk District of Ukraine, Yuri Josephovich; and the Old Sambir District Court of Lviv district of Butchak Eugenia Osipovic; The Lower Regional Court of the Czernigow Region of Triglav Valentina Mikolayevna Please support the decision of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u270	Your Honor, is there no objection to putting to the vote a draft decree on the release of judges? Please vote. [[13:40:00]] For 264 Decision taken. We all do, don't we? Dear National Deputies! Allow me to welcome, on your behalf, judges who have been assigned to positions without delay, to wish them success. And thank those judges who resigned, according to the applications, for their honest work. Dear National Deputies! It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on changing the status of confession as evidence of guilt in criminal matters]] [[resecond reading]] Reporter: Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u271	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Your attention is given to the committee by Oleg Zarubinsky's bill to amend the Criminal Procedure Code. [[on changing the status of a person's confession as evidence of guilt in a criminal case]] I told you last time that the committee took full account of Sweden's amendment and partly the amendment of Yuri Carmazin, and more amendments to the second reading did not come. So the committee is asking you to adopt it as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u272	Microphone, Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u273	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear Vladimir Romanovich! It's not my law, it's not my project. In the draft voted in the first reading, there were absolutely specific things that concerned the fact that confession could not be the basis for the accusation. That a voluntary confession can only be added to the evidence gathered. It's completely exhilarated in the second reading of all of this, there's absolutely nothing meaningful about it, there's actually a repetition of what's in the current legislation. So the key principle of Edward Visinsky is that confession is the queen of evidence remains here. I refuse, it's not my law. Everything that was important has been deleted. I understand that this is done to help law enforcement to violate human rights and to beat, with gasses and everything else, to beat confessions, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u274	Yes, please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u275	I'm literally going to answer to a respectable colleague. During the days, the Constitutional Court ruled that the evidence collected by an unauthorized person in a manner not provided for by the Criminal Procedure Code was inadmissible. That is, confession, if given voluntarily, is evidence. A person may not give evidence; it is his right as guaranteed by the Constitution. But in the end, the Supreme Council supported the first reading. Today the same is true of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a discussion, we cannot discuss, unfortunately, no. Dear colleagues, we have a conflict here. At the same time, in accordance with the Rules, I have to put to the vote a proposal for the first adoption committee in the second and in general as a law, although the Chief Legal Authority has made a comment to this bill. At the same time, I have to say that, on a large scale, all that was left is the same. It was beneficial for a person to gain a confession on various occasions to be subject to careful scrutiny. And it says what it should be. The committee went, in fact, after that old law school that left essentially the same thing as it was. And then we complain to you here in the session room that people are breaking out shows, making them talk about themselves and things like that. In order to protect such people, we have not taken any steps in this regard. So given what the representative of the committee, Vladimir Romanov Moysik, and the objections raised by the author of the bill, Oleg Zarubinski, I ask you to make the right decision. I put to the vote the proposal of the adoption committee in the second reading and in the whole of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on changing the status of confession as evidence of guilt in criminal matters]] [[Registration number 6059]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:45:53]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our session for 15 minutes in order to obtain the results of the work of the Counting Commission. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on the requirements for persons admitted to the service of the police]] [[Registration number 6419]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vladimir Stepanovich Malishev. He will report to Vladimir Oliynik, the first deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u277	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee is a bill that is considered and prepared for second reading. It sets out more clearly the requirements for candidates to serve in Ukraine’s internal affairs. These requirements relate to age, education, military service, language, and others. All amendments and proposals made by the national deputies, as well as by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General’s Office, were taken into account in whole or in part. In general, they support the bill. The committee proposes that the bill be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, the amendments are practically all taken into account, but there is a point made by the Chief Legal Authority on this matter. Vladimir Yavorowski? What kind of correction do you have? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u279	I'm talking about my 10th amendment, which is partially accounted for. It reads: "They cannot be admitted to the service of the police, persons who have previously been called to criminal responsibility for the commission of a crime, except those who have been acquitted by the courts, persons whose criminal cases are closed in connection with the absence of a crime or absence in the conduct of a crime, and persons who have committed reckless crimes of small or medium gravity, the crimes for which the law has been removed or extinguished." I think it's very normal. Of course, if a person commits a crime, he can't work in law enforcement, but if it's a misdemeanour there and so on, I also think that to refuse, especially if the trial has already been removed and the trial has been removed from a person, it is no different from the people of others. Because, if possible, just explain why I did not make full use of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u280	Such a requirement of the Constitution, and you can see that the committee has only partially taken your amendment into account. And this is the position of the committee based on clear adherence to the Constitution of Ukraine in this part.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote the amendment of 10th, Vladimir Yavorowski, who insists on the need for her full consideration. [[13:49:13]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Other objections, I can't see the warning. None. What about the comments of the General Legal Department? We don't count them? Ladies and gentlemen, the committee suggests that we accept it as a law in the second reading. A number of comments were made by the Chief Legal Office, which the Committee disagreed with. I'm voting on the proposal: the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill of amendment to article 17 of the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on the requirements for persons admitted to the service of the police]] [[Registration number 6418]] [[13:50:11]] For 266 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Law amending the Basic Health Law of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the acceleration of the provision of first-aid services in urgent and extreme situations]] [[Registration number 7359]] The rapporteur is Tetjana Dmitrovna Bacheviva, head of the Health Committee. Who will report from the committee? Who insists on their amendments? Vladimir Karpuk, please 7369, microphone. The secretariat, please, take care of the reporters.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a 4th amendment here. But the committee decided to consider the amendment to Tolstenk, leaving article 37 of the original legislation. Therefore, the changes proposed to MPs for the first reading are not taken into account and, in practice, the law has changed its substance and is not now changing to the basis of legislation. Only changes to the 77th article, which provides for free parking of vehicles. Of course, as a doctor, I would like to support this, although this is not in line with the Tax Code, and then I need to change the date of the acquisition of the law, not since January 1, 2012, but since 2013. In general, I would ask the deputies to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u283	Is that how you vote your amendment or not? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u284	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I proposed in my amendment, in the first part of article 37, a new sentence was proposed: "In extreme and urgent cases, medical personnel and persons with medical education who are at the scene of such a situation are obliged to provide first aid." I emphasize the word "obliged." Why am I writing this? This provision provides for the right of Ukrainian citizens to life and health, as provided for in article 49 of the Ukrainian Constitution. And not as the first reading said, "It might be useful," and now the committee wrote, "refused with amendment number two. Amendment No. 2 is to leave the article 37 in its original form, but. So that means that my amendment is partially taken into account, Aunt Dmitry. But in the right column.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u285	Well, you can really think that your amendment, Yuri Anatolyevich, is partially taken into account, because article 37 already says that it is left behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u286	Amendment 3, by Yuri Karmazin, is on the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've already announced, no, God is with him. [[13:54:08]] For the five of us. It's included in other amendments, this offer by Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u287	Amendment No. 7 of the people's deputy Krutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u288	The circle insists on correction? No, it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt a bill on second reading and generally as a law. [[Registration number 7359]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u289	Please support this bill. Hold it. [[13:54:47]] For 254
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u290	The decision has been taken, or the law has been passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we should now consider a draft Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. [[Registration number 5108]] At the same time, the committee asked for a postponement of the bill in view of the need to reconcile a number of positions with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Is there no objection? Then we'll put it off for the next plenary week. Volodymyr Yavorowski’s microphone About what?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u291	As far as this law is concerned. I'm very sorry. I appeal to a committee that will work together and agree. I made my amendment by inserting it, but there's nothing in the table of my proposal. I very much ask the committee to pay attention, and in the following consideration it is imperative that I correct or reject my amendment or accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u292	I ask the committee to consider this commission and make a regulatory decision. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on the introduction of separate provisions of applicable legislation in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision]] [[Registration number 8246-2]] [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Justice, Vadim Vasilovich Kolesnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u293	Thank you. Dear colleagues, by decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 11 March of this year, the position of part three of article 25 of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice on the right of the High Council of Justice to require a copy of cases before the courts, which have not been completed, is recognized as not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. In his judgment, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine noted that the extermination by the Higher Council of Justice of any judicial material, originals or copies results from an assessment of the judicial actions taken by the judge, which are considered to be interference with the exercise of justice and contravenes the first and second parts of article 126 of the first article of article 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The decision of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended: to bring part four of article 25 into line with this Decision; part one of article 40 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice; part one of article 188.32 pr. Ukraine Code on Administrative Offences. Bill 8246-2 proposed a new edition of article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on the Higher Council of Justice, which is proposed, fills the gaps in this law regarding the order of execution by the Higher Council of Justice of a copy of the case. In this regard, there are also corresponding changes to the part of the first article 40, "The Higher Council of Justice" and the part of the first article, 182 prima. 32 Ukraine Code on Administrative Offences, which regulates the issue of administrative responsibility for failure to comply with legal requirements of the High Council of Justice regarding the provision of information. The proposed provisions of this project are expected to ensure the execution of the above-mentioned Constitutional Court decision and to regulate the procedure for the examination of court cases. During the drafting of the bill and its preparation for second reading to the committee, there were 24 proposals and amendments to the legislative initiative: 7 - counted, 17 - rejected. Taking into account what has been said, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a second reading and as a whole as a law. [[8246-2]] At the same time, we ask that we listen to the proposal made by the national MP, Voropeyev, to sound it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u294	Let's do some repairs. Corrections. accounted for. Vlasenka's correction is rejected. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, 4th Amendment Are you insisting? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u295	Yuri Carmazin. I will insist on any amendments that affect the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens in any way. That's why it's about amendment number four. I propose in article 88, paragraph 1, of the first part, after the words “for the provision of information”, the word “court or copy of a court case which is concluded by refusing to know a court case whose case is not completed” to replace the words “not to provide a possibility or to refuse to familiarise itself with the proceedings”. And after the words "information deadlines," add the words "copy materials." I believe that my editorial will be in line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court in article 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And I think that's a principled position that needs to be written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u296	Yes, dear fellows, the 4th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin is put to the vote. [[14:01:03]] For-19 Correction not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 5, Vlasenko doesn't insist. Don't insist, Vlasenko. Amendment 9 of Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u297	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you and saying that there is a political thing when I proposed to you and said, "People good, come to your senses." Today, as we learned yesterday, 603,000, over 603,000 citizens’ appeals lie, sealed appeal courts, sealed, even unregistered. And it's not the judges' fault. There are 300 cases a month. This is the fault of the legislators who led to this. And a year and a half ago, I convinced you, consider Carmazin's revisions, consider Carmazin's revisions. You don't count. And the result. But you don't answer to people. Over half a million people, it's not registered at all, and another half a million are on the lookout. This is a million people who are humiliated. I'm not going to insist on any more revisions, everyone wants to have lunch, they're looking at me with hungry eyes. But I would like to be held accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u298	Amendment 12 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u299	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u300	Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u301	Now. Just a minute. We'll be right there. Vlasenko, Vlasenko. Carmazine, 19th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? Yuri Anatolyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u302	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't want people wasting their time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u303	Okay. 20 revisions. Voropayev, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u304	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the following, one hundredth of the Constitutional Court, in March of this year, which has just drawn our attention to the fact that the Supreme Council of Justice should not seek the case file from the court until it is completed. And that's what the committee representative said. My amendment is 20, which 24 says the same thing, let's make it clear in the law. In order to make this clear, I propose that, in article 25, which refers to the powers of the Supreme Council of Justice, we write after part three another part in the form of one proposal: “Member of the High Council of Justice cannot require the original cases which have not been completed”. In doing so, we will comply with the requirement of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u305	Does the committee support this? Then we need to confirm by voting this amendment, your esteemed colleagues. I put to the vote an amendment that has just been made by the Ukrainian national deputy Voropeyev. To supplement article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on the Higher Council of Justice. After part three of the new content: "A member of the High Council of Justice cannot demand the original cases that are pending." I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[14:04:38]] For 262 Correction accepted. Let's move on. Yuri Carmazin, 22nd. He doesn't insist. Voropeyev, 24th. No, it's not. Yes, all other adjustments are included. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. The main legal office has made remarks, and it believes that the bill needs to be redrafted and re-readed. With this in mind, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine, please vote. [[on the introduction of separate provisions of applicable legislation in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision]] [[Registration number 8246-2]] [[2:05:49]] For 260 Decision taken. So the law was passed. We still have, dear fellows, within 15 minutes we announced the continuation of the morning session. It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[on the application of the requirements of the European Convention on Transboundary Television to the programming concept of language]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee of Helen Bondarenko. At the same time, I was approached by representatives of the committee who asked me to postpone consideration of the matter, but your position. () [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm telling you, your position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u306	Okay. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u307	What's the procedure? Please, Andrew Shevchenko. One minute, Helen Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u308	Thank you. The bill is not simple, I will remind you that it is about the total elimination of the Ukrainian music quota in radio broadcasting in music programmes, as well as the reduction of the national product quota in television and radio broadcasting from 50 per cent to 25. In this context, I just want to say that as a result of the discussion in our faction, and also in the faction of "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense," we would really like to initiate the transfer of this issue. And if this is considered, we will insist on an article-by-article review of this bill in accordance with 120 articles of the Rules, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u309	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u310	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Our faction, although it's already expressed its position that we can't support this bill, because it really, well, just destroys our culture; destroys, eliminates its access to citizens, and doesn't, as it's said, some kind of ghetto or something, we also insist on doing the same and join this initiative so that we don't consider this bill today. Let the majority find out what he's bringing. It's not a language bill, it's not about Ukrainian, it's not about Ukrainian music, it's about a product that's produced in Ukraine. This is an open-minded lobbyist bill supported by Russian producers who are going to rush into Ukraine, believe me, not an intellectual bill, but the dirtiest, craziest chance. Our parliamentary group has made this point; we should not consider it, let us not bring any further destruction to the work of the Supreme Council. Today, we have many serious questions to consider, and let them be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u311	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Let's do this. May I have your attention, please? No, no, it's a discussion. Let us do so, fellow believers. We need to work on the law and make adjustments. But. Since this proposal has been made, I will put to the vote a motion to postpone consideration of this law. So you're going to support the decision. No, then we will vote in an articlelike manner as proposed. So I'm putting to the vote the first thing I said about delaying the consideration of the draft law to clarify positions. [[Registration number 6342]] Please be sure. [[14:09:17]] For-138 The offer is not supported. Is that how you do it? Maybe that's how we did it: would we vote on the right column where we're talking about the final decision, each individual and everything? It's a second reading, it can't be shortened. Amendment 1. The National MP of Kosovo insists? No, it's not. I can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u312	We're going after the amendments already. Please, it's announced in 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Let's do it this way. Because she did not get the word “reporters ” in connection with her activity. Just a minute. The rapporteur should be given the floor. Let's think about it this way. After the interviewer gives the floor, the commission will then announce the results of the election of the Constitutional Court judge. Please, Olena Anatolyevna has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u313	Thank you very much. We have this situation where more and more often the authorities don't give their word, they only give their opposition. I want to say the next thing. On October 5, the committee considered the bill and recommended that it be adopted in a second reading and in general. What is the purpose of this bill? There's a lot of emotional words that have been said here, but in fact, the purpose of the bill is: this is, first of all, the liberalisation of Ukrainian media and the depoliticization of their work, this is the deregulation of their creative and economic activities, and the creation of conditions for the chief regulator, the Network for Television and Radio Broadcasting, not being able to push on the radio station and not being able to do corruption on radio stations. We're proposing, and here is the lie that the quota elimination, that's not true, we're proposing to keep the quota of Ukrainian music within 25 percent, that's the average in Europe, and that's the percentage that gives rise to Ukrainian radio, it's not choking it and it's breathing it. The quotas that are now, they're dragon quotas, they're the highest in Europe. Radio stations can't stand them, radio stations are like each other, it's a chance, it's a chance, it's a chance, it's a pantyhose, it's a sweaty coward. There's no jazz, there's no other styles in music, there's a solid chance. So now the lowest radio is the most affected by these dragon boundaries. So I ask you to support and give the listener freedom of choice, to support this bill, and to bring the country closer to European standards. What was said is pseudo patriotism, pseudo-supporting Ukrainian music. The bill is not really a language issue, thank you, Mr. Blackwall. And, you know, Ukrainian music isn't at all a disabled person who needs crutches on quotas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u314	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Just a minute. We're essentially going to have a discussion of the bill at the evening session to finish our consideration of the question, because we're not going to be able to get to it by 14.15. And now the head of the Counting Commission, Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, is ready to report on the results of the Supreme Council's will.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u315	What Are You Not Satisfied With? So speak with your own mind. Why you. I'm asking you to calm down! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u316	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Indeed, there is a certain point, but you will speak after the chairman of the Counting Commission has spoken. I'm bringing to your well-known Protocol No. 2 of the meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council. Present: Head of the Shershun Counting Commission, Vice-President of the Vyezovsky Counting Commission; members of the Counting Commission: Barovnenko, Biruk, Bondarenko, Gacko, Gordijenko, Kaluzhny, Komar, Final, Oilynik, Pecklusenko, Prokopchuk, Stoyan, Sulkovsky, Dry, Tjak. They heard about the summary of the secret ballot for the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Passenjuk Aleksandr Mihajlovich’s candidacy was included in the ballot to vote in secret on the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. On the basis of the results of the secret vote, the Counting Commission established the number of Ukrainian national deputies who were recognized: 450; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots: 259, the number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote: 259. The number of invalid ballots is 2. Name, name and father of candidate: Pasenyuk Alexander Mihajlovich Number of votes cast as candidate: 249. Number of votes cast against candidate: 8. According to articles 85th and 148th of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act and chapter 7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Seventh Rules, the Counting Commission decided: to be appointed judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Head of the Counting Commission. The Secretary of the Counter-Terrorism Commission. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u317	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u318	There's a certain idea, like I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u319	It's a separate thought. Who will act? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u320	At the commission of a group of members of the Counting Commission, Yuri Prokopchuk, BUT, Fatherland. I report on the falsification of the election of the Constitutional Court Judge Pasenyuk by throwing in 20 additional ballots by national deputy Yuri Litvin, who was found to be the deputy head of the Committee and me personally, as well as all journalists, those who were present, including television. When George Litwin entered the newspaper’s office, he obtained 20 ballot papers from the newspaper, which he had dropped, which were one stop there, which was fixed, and thus led to the falsification of the election of the Constitutional Court judge, who is today illegally elected. [[B in m in s a l in]] In addition, I tell you and all the Ukrainian people that even if there was a thought that it was from this faction, that, by the way, it was a gross violation of the Constitution, article 39 of the Rules of the Supreme Council. In addition, the head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, Igor Fedorovich Sharov, and all the representatives of the Lithuanian faction voted in person. Therefore, it is not possible to accept the election of a Constitutional Court judge as legitimate. Therefore, the Constitutional Court Judge Pasenuk is not a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-03-m0.u321	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not a member of the faction. Tom, I'm making a remark to the speaker who's allowing rough fakes. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, there is the record of the Counting Commission, which states that 249 people have been elected judge of the Constitutional Court of Pasenyuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to tell you again, so in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I am announcing election. appointing a judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! The appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Ukraine of Pasenyuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to make an appropriate decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] To whom is the word? I hereby announce the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A particular thought is expressed. not all members of the Counting Commission speak. Calm down! Sit down! Morning meeting. What else do you need? What Is the Passion’s Word for? [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, tell me what you're saying. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] That's when we take him to the oath, then we welcome him. What? Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] They have spoken with a separate mind. I'm asking you again! [[B in m in s a l in]] Form a protocol and show me. Dear colleagues, let us thus welcome, on behalf of all here, the appointment of Pasenuk in connection with the appointment of Judge of the Constitutional Court. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Let's continue at 16 o'clock.
