ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:32]] Cards were registered in the 364 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Šemčik Viktorovich. Please welcome our colleague and wish him good health. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on 3 November 2011. 15 questions on the agenda have been considered, 10 laws and 6 regulations have been adopted, and one bill has been rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Friday from 10 to 11 p.m., are held "the hour of questions to the Government". Representatives of the deputy factions made a proposal: during the "hour of questions to the government" to hear information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the State's social policy measures in the State Budget 2012 project. The parliamentary factions – the Party of the Regions, "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherland", the Communist Party of Ukraine and the parliamentary group "Reforms for the Future", based on part 6 of article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, informed the Cabinet of Ministers in advance of the questions to be asked during the "hour of questions to the Government". Ladies and gentlemen, on the "hour of questions to the Government" are members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the exception of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who is on a foreign mission. Deputy Prime Minister Boris Kolesnikov – on vacation, Deputy Prime Minister Sergey Tihypco – is serving abroad and is being accompanied by a minister of finance in the United States. Agrarian Policy Minister Mikola and Minister of Emergency Situations Victor Baloga are also on expeditions, that is, the reasons why they are not valid. All other members of the Cabinet of Ministers are present. Dear National Deputies! The First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Andri Petrovich Klovev, will answer questions from the Ukrainian National Deputies. I remind you, Your Honor, that the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine define such an order of "hours of questions to the Government." When asked about the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from the parliamentary groups and factions and the answers to these questions are within 30 minutes, questions from the National Deputies directly to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, who are present on the "hour of questions to the Government", take 30 minutes. Traditionally, it's suggested that your colleagues will take one minute to form questions and two minutes to answer questions. First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Andri Petrovich Kljev, is invited to the rostrum. Andrew Petrovich, I ask you in turn to answer questions from factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u2	Good day, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, colleagues! Since the beginning of the government’s activities, anti-crisis measures have restored positive economic dynamics and stabilized the financial sector. The clear interaction between the branches of government allowed a prosperous society, a competitive economy, effective state reforms to address systemic problems to be launched in 2010 under the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme. We are convinced that among the structural reforms of the economy, raising the standard of living of the population is the most important. The economic growth in 2011, which is largely due to the implementation of reforms, is allowing further rises in social standards. In 9 months 2011, GDP grew by 5.3 per cent, industrial production by 8.6 per cent, agricultural production by 13.7 per cent, compared with the corresponding period last year. The profits of enterprises in January-August increased by 31 percent against the same period in 2010 and accounted for over 130 billion dollars. The overall financial result is positive, accounting for 64.8 billion dollars. In the first half of 2011, investment in capital actually increased by 15.9 percent. Credit resources are also an important source of investment. According to the National Bank, the total amount of credit at the end of September 2011 increased by 67.6 billion dollars, or 9.3 percent, at the beginning of the year. Investment and credit growth, including the construction of Euro -2012 infrastructure projects, contributed to an 11.4 percent increase in construction work. Positive trends in industry, agriculture, and construction have contributed to the development of adjacent industries, and the turnover has increased by 7.4 percent. Positive dynamics were also demonstrated by economic activities geared towards the needs of citizens, and the volume of passenger transport increased by 2.6 percent. The volume of retail trade increased by 15.2 percent. Price stability was maintained. The consumer price index was only 4.2 percent. Conducting balanced fiscal policies, including government measures to improve the administration of payments, as well as the revitalization of entrepreneurial activities, have enabled the government to overturn the income portion of the budget. The government budget for the nine months of 2011 increased by 39.3 percent compared to the corresponding period last year, to 226.7 billion dollars. The anti - inflation factor was the increase in population savings. The volume of personal deposits at the beginning of this year amounted to 300.7 billion dollars. And it's increased by 28.9 billion dollars since the beginning of the year, or 10.6 percent. Economic growth and price stability have become the basis for supporting social development. During the nine months of 2011, the average monthly salary of a staff member increased by 18.2 percent and stood at 2.5 thousand. The real monthly wage increase is 8 percent. Improvements in employment continue. The number of employed people aged 15 to 70 from the first half of last year increased by 34 to 1,000. Ensuring higher social standards and guarantees. In 2011, living minimum per person increased by 8.4 percent on average in 2011. During 2010-2011, the minimum wage was set at the minimum wage for working persons. Under the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2011 the minimum wage will increase by 82 or almost 9 per cent over the year. Over the past few years, it has been possible to recalculate according to a step - by - step increase in the subsistence minimum not only in pensions but also in payments to the underprivileged, disabled, single mothers. Compared to 2010, the minimum pension rate is expected to increase by 8.1 percent, and the average pension rate is expected to increase to 1 000 283 bracelets, nearly 11 percent more than in 2010. Last year, the government reviewed the size of the official salary for the workers of the first tariff class of the Single Tariff Network, which had not been reviewed since September 1, 2008. As a result, three and a half million workers were raised in office salaries. In 2011, the official salary is calculated on the basis of the size of the official’s salary at the first tariff level for the EU. This ensured an increase of 17.2 percent over the year. With the aim of increasing the level of prestige of work, the government has allocated allowances to individual categories of budget workers: health workers have received a 10 to 30 per cent salary allowance last year; school teachers and teachers have received a 20 per cent salary allowance last year; cultural workers, rural clubs, librarians have received a pay-as-you-go allowance; military contractors and military forces have received an average increase of 20 per cent. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved the concept of improving the salaries of budget workers. The introduction of a step-by-step increase in salaries for workers in specific areas of the budget area, which is paid on the basis of a single tariff network in such areas as education, health care, culture and sports, the determination of the size of the salaries of budget workers on the basis of an improved single tariff network, depending on their qualifications, complexity, working conditions, and so forth. With the aim of increasing the prestige of the work of health workers who provide assistance to patients with tuberculosis, from 1 July of this year the salaries and benefits for continuous work were increased to 60 per cent of the official salary to certain categories of health care workers who carry out diagnostics and provide treatment and preventive care to such patients. And about 16,000 of these people are sick. According to the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance of 23 March 2011, number 373, a 20 per cent allowance has been introduced for all categories of education. An expanded list of pedagogical workers who will receive an allowance to eliminate social inequalities in pay. More than 350,000 people were affected by the increase. In accordance with the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decision on the Strengthening of Social Protection in the Payment of Housing Services, the mandatory payment for municipal services, including gas payments, has been reduced from 15 to 10 per cent of the average total income for families of pensioners, disabled persons and families with children under 18 years of age; from 20 to 15 per cent for other families with working citizens. A simplified system of housing subsidies has been introduced, including the payment of gas, which provides for the release of citizens from the helpdesk, such as family composition, and the cost of utilities. An average of 22 percent in 20 years has been increased for Afghans and other members of the fighting in the territory of foreign nations since 1945. In 2012, positive trends in socio-economic development will continue. Providing funding for existing social obligations is one of the fundamental pillars of our policy. The main task of the State budget for 2012 is to increase the size of state social standards and guarantees. The State Budget 2012 project is intended to continue the government's systemic policy of raising minimum wage. Yes, the State Budget project for the following year provides a minimum wage for an average of 1,098 dollars. At this time, it will be increased to a minimum of living for working persons. Thus, in 2012, the minimum wage will increase by 135 or 14 percent compared to 2011. The state-guaranteed subsistence minimum per person will also increase by 14 percent. The State Budget 2012 project provides that the salary of the first tariff review of the single tariff network will be an average of 800 dollars per year, an increase of 25.5 per cent compared to 2011. As a result, budget workers’ salaries will increase quarterly during 2012. In doing so, inter-qualification ratios will be provided in the salaries of employees whose salaries are to be at the minimum wage level. Expenditure on the work of budget workers at the start of the indicators in 2012 will increase by 23.8 billion dollars. The budget fund will increase from $118 billion to $142 billion. It should be noted that in 2012, as in 2011, the government is planning to increase the level of salaries of budget staff in the re-enactment of the budget. To promote the employment of citizens, the 2012 State Budget project includes 25 billion dollars for youth employment. A number of government-procurement budget programmes are available, new programmes are implemented, and national producer support are provided. A total of 757 million dollars, nearly 20 percent more than the amount allocated for this year, is planned for vocational training, retraining and upgrading from the National Social Insurance Fund in case of unemployment. With a view to further increasing the level of social protection for pensioners, the State Budget 2012 project envisions an increase in the minimum pension of up to 842 dollars, or 9.8 percent higher. In 2010 - 2012, an increase of 53.6 percent at the age of the minimum pension. According to the new social standards, the government’s 2012 government budget expenditure is projected to be 46.9 billion dollars. It is possible to increase the basic pension for war invalids by 20 percent. There has been no such increase in pensions for people with disabilities in recent years. As a result, in the following year, the average monthly pension for war invalids will amount to EUR 3,000 and 112. The State Budget 2012 project also provides for an increase of 23 percent in annual annual cash assistance paid to war veterans by May 5, on average. Measures have been planned to improve the level of social protection and treatment of Chernobyl disaster relief workers. The main pension will be increased by 25 percent. This increase is projected to take place annually between 2012 and 2015. In 2012, a pension will be paid to families of deceased military personnel in the amount of 358 dollars against 275 dollars in 2011. In order to increase the amount of pension payments to children, the cost of war will be increased to 419 million dollars. This will allow for an increase of 20.5 percent in the pension for children of war in 2012. Social benefits will also be increased to help families with children who are underprivileged, disabled from childhood, children with disabilities, and temporary government assistance for children. The total amount of the corresponding subsidy from the national budget is planned to increase local budgets to 30.2 billion dollars, or more than 14.4 percent. In order to cope with the unfavourable demographic situation, the minimum wage will be increased when the child is born and a number of other social benefits. Yes, by the end of 2012, the first child’s aid will be increased to 28.8 thousand dollars; the second, by more than 57,000 dollars; and the third, by more than 115 thousand dollars. One of the active measures in supporting multi-child families is to assign honorary titled Mother Hero to women. The 2012 payout is planned to increase by 10.6 percent against the 2011 figures and to provide 322.3 million dollars. Overall, 2012 will be the year of dynamic economic and social reforms in Ukraine, which will contribute to the continuation of the economic growth trend in the coming years and will ensure a marked improvement in the level and quality of life of our citizens. The expenditure of the Education Budget in 2012 will increase to 90.1 billion dollars, or 12.1 percent. Ukraine’s 2012 state budget for science is projected at 5.3 billion dollars, more than 8 percent in 2011 and 13.6 percent in 2010. In Ukraine's consolidated 2012 budget to ensure the implementation of state policy in the field of culture and art, expenditure will amount to 9.1 billion dollars, more than in 2011, 16.7 per cent of which are government budget expenditure of 1.5 billion dollars, local money of 7.6 billion dollars. The State budget for 2012 provides 763.6 for media financing. That's right. The cost of health care is 50.3 billion dollars, 12.3 percent more than the 2010 reporting rate. The current expenditure on physical culture and sports is projected to increase by 9 percent to 1.7 billion dollars. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, colleagues! From the deputy factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine came today's "hour of questions to the government" of 19 questions, of which three questions are personified to the Minister of Interior and one to the Minister of Emergency Situations. In view of the above, let me answer 15 questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u3	Andrew Petrovich, let's do it this way. You've already answered these questions in general. If there were any, say, reform groups for the future, there was a specific question, others, these answers, and then we'll go to questions from MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u4	With regard to Reform for the Future, the MP's faction, the question is that it has to be said that further reform of the economy and the social sphere will generally have a negative impact on the social situation of a large part of our fellow citizens, such as the published plans for optimizing the railway routes of Crucibles, which, according to previous estimates, may leave at least 25,000 people unemployed. What social shock absorbers are envisioned by the government in the 2012 State Budget to minimize the negative effects noted above and other similar reform measures. Dear National Deputies! The government is constantly taking the necessary steps to stabilize the economy, and the basis is to increase the level of employment of citizens. Yes, if the employment rate was in 2009. 7.7 percent, and the unemployment rate is 8.8 in the first half of the year. increased 59 percent and the unemployment rate decreased to 8.2 percent. It has to be noted that during January-September 2011, 766 thousand people were created. More than 610 thousand people have been employed by the State Employment Service, and nearly 180,000 have received vocational training. In 2012, the fund is expected to target the training, retraining and upgrading of 757 million dollars, nearly 20 percent more than the amount allocated for this year. Thus, the government’s set of measures will allow for a tendency to increase the level of employment of citizens. With regard to the optimization of railway routes, it is pointed out that, in fact, today, the sector is on the verge of many changes in its various sectors, which may cause concern about job conservation. In any reform, there is a need for structural change, which will require a redistribution of part of the workers. At the same time, full measures will be taken by the government and the railway authorities to ensure the employment of workers who will be released. There's also another question, the MP's reform group for the future. "Why does Ukraine's State Budget 2012 project provide partial, rather than full funding for state social security and social protection programmes, housing support, housing reform, physical and sports development, as well as full social and tax compensation, since it is clear that under the current circumstances local budgets will not be able to cover the deficit in funding the programmes noted?" With regard to the answer to that question, honourable national MPs, the State Budget 2012 project was built in this way, on the basis that the economic potential and the assessment of the revenue of the budget. The government continues its social development policy aimed at improving the welfare of citizens. Yes, the following year there is an increase in social security, such as an increase in living minimum, minimum wage, social assistance, and pensions. For additional payments to individual categories of budget workers according to government decisions made in the current year, the expenditure of 3.2 billion dollars is taken into account by the government. To help families with low - income families, disabled persons from childhood in 2012, there were 30.2 billion dollars, or 3.8 billion dollars more than those recorded in the 2011 budget. As far as housing is concerned, we've developed a program, it's going to be used next year, this program is going to be 130 billion dollars. And all of these costs are going to be focused on building housing for our population. Yes, another MP faction. Another question of reform for the future: "Why does the Ukrainian State Budget 2012 project not provide subsidies to local budgets to cover the difference in the tariffs on heat energy for the population due to the inadequacy of the actual cost of thermal energy to tariffs that were approved or accepted by the relevant authorities of the State?" Well, in 2011, honourable national deputies, you know that we covered the difference in tariffs with the State budget, and the Ukrainian Law 3220 on Amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2011 provides a subsidy from the State Budget to local budgets of 3.6 billion dollars. [[on the granting of subsidies from the State budget to the local budget for the payment of debt with a difference in tariffs on heat energy]] As for 2012, you know that negotiations are under way with the Russian Federation on gas deliveries to Ukraine and when they end and I. We think they're going to end this month, in November, we're going to know what the price of gas is in 2012 we're going to pay to Russia. And so in processing the state budget for. On the second reading for 2012, we'll already have that amount, if necessary, in order to take account of the difference in tariffs. Yeah, one more question. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have answered all the questions of the MP group Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u5	Let's do this, maybe we can work it out. Since the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine has provided general information on issues relating to the social sphere and there have been specific questions, the answers are given to them, let us perhaps now move on to enroll in questions that will arise either to the First Deputy Prime Minister or to members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And you can answer from the point of view. Is there no objection? Then, Andrew Petrovich, thank you for your comprehensive, thorough answers. Now, dear colleagues, please prepare to record a question to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm announcing a question mark. Let's sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u6	Vladimir Bondarenko. I have a question for Mr. Mogilov's Home Secretary. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, the President made a statement on the horrendous danger that is on the rise in Ukraine and is linked to the mass purchase of arms and the preparations for armed uprisings. I think that this information from the President could only come from a few sources. It could be an A.P.A., it could be your department, maybe there's some other counselors. I know that today one of the main sources of illegal weapons in Ukraine is the police, especially the Lviv Academy of Internal Affairs and some other units that sell and sell weapons, including machine guns. I'd like to ask you. What did you do to prevent such information from coming to the President first, and why would you misinformation it because thousands of illegal weapons are being removed every year? Why pressure the hysteria of the eve of the European elections? The euro can be cancelled because weapons arsenals in Ukraine are a terrible threat to Euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u7	Please, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u8	Thank you for asking. I answer you. In fact, this information at the Ministry of Internal Affairs is, and we're checking it out. In fact, we have quite a large quantity of weapons that are not available. outside the law, let's say. And according to these facts, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is doing a background check. These are the facts that you said in Kharkiv, in Lviv, that we discovered in the IMF system. The reasons for this. The reason is because during the last few years of weapons testing in the Ministry of Defense, they've been conducted fairly formally because they've been doing them unprofessionally. That's what's causing the problem that we're eliminating now. As of today, the verification of weapons storage sites at the Ministry of Defense is over, we no longer have such facts. But each one of them, on our initiative, is involved in criminal cases and persons involved in criminal acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u9	National MP Maybeard, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u10	Dear Andrei Petrovich! Andrei Petrovich, question. Dear Andrei Petrovich! What measures are envisaged in 2012 to increase the level of low-income citizens?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u11	Question: "What steps are being taken to improve the standard of living of low-income citizens?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u12	I'm sorry, but I've reported on this subject for 25 minutes with all the numbers, with all the moves. If you have to go back to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u13	Yes, Sergey Shevchuk, Faction of the Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u14	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I have a question for Mr. Mogilov, Minister of State. The first issue of the BUT faction published a statement that the Head of the Supreme Council sent to you as a request for the arson of the building of the mayor of Covell, a member of the Party of Fathers in the Volinsk region. We are grateful to the Head of the Supreme Council for such an operational response, but we are surprised by the "operation" at the site of the Volin militia. On the same day an investigation was conducted, and the following day, the deputy head of the State Department, the head of the Regional Division of the Party of Regions, said that the fire was caused by children playing there, burning shishes and, as it were, setting the house on fire six hours after they were playing. I have a question for you, Mr. Minister. Have you entrusted the head of the regional organization's district organization with official conclusions? Do you think this one is reliable?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u15	Please complete your second part of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u16	Do you think it's a likely version of the children who set the house on fire? Yes, there was a son, but he is 29 years old. He himself built this wooden cut. Could this child have left the house so that it would light up? And doesn't that really look like an order? And when.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u17	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u18	Let me answer that. I know about this case you're talking about. I'll tell you what. First of all, I can't give instructions to anyone but the police. This is the first time. As to whether or not I had someone to comment on these events. It's different. If you understand at least a little about the criminal process, you need to understand that the reason for making a decision about the arson or the burning of a building is the cause of the fire. On the basis of this act, a decision is made either on a criminal case or on a refusal to do so in a criminal case. So if you know about this act, tell me about it. I know there's a reason for this fire. So that's where the decision was made according to the legislation in force. If anyone thinks it's illegal, it should be appealed to the D.A.'s office. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u19	Antonina Boloura, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u20	Please give the floor to colleague Schlemko Dmitr Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u21	Dmitri Schlemko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u22	I have a question for Minister Mogilov. Mr. Minister, at one of the press conferences, you said that in the Ivano-Frankow region, gangs are being formed to pay for a trip to Kiev to the Pecher Court, where there is a court over Yulia Timoshenko for the organization of provocations and bloodshed. It's been a long time. Questions. Did you find out who the Kyiv contracting party was to organize such gang formations on Prikarpata? Because there's information that this provocation was organized by a police force in an area that was pressing one of the criminals for such a statement. Can you correct or confirm this? And secondly, in the light of the President's statement about the organization of an armed rebellion against power. You didn't explain after that, or maybe there's a new Dobush in Carpathians who wants to take the looted from the rich and share it with the poor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u23	Please, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u24	I'll start with a second question. There's no wealth in your faction? It is likely that these rich will have their possessions taken away. Now, about your first, your question. In fact, these materials that I've been talking about are in a criminal case. After the judgment of the court has been rendered in this case, the material in this case will be publicized. And then we'll see who was the contractor, who was the performer of all the actions I told you about. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u25	Heresy, the "BUT is the Fatherland" faction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u26	I have a question for Minister Mogilov. You know, it's so impressive that your system exerts active pressure on opposition national MPs. Why is this pressure both moral and physical? In particular, I can tell you that your staff recently conducted an unprecedented search at the reception of the People's Deputy of the City of Squire of Kyiv. Well, it's kind of, you know, a shame. I call you the name of our colleague Eugene Souslow. How can you explain this, your steps, your, you know, thieving in relation to the national MPs?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u27	I answer you. Well, first of all, the search in the building you're talking about was done in a criminal case according to a court order. It's a search warranted by the court. Now, about the social receptions you're talking about. We have these cases where a metal barrel is labeled "Ownment of a People's Deputy." Maybe we've got some diogenics that already live in barrels. Now it's about social reception. All the national MPs we have, they're government officials, right? Yes. So if this room is owned by a national MP, he has the right to do the reception there. According to the law, he must turn to the local authorities. They can give him a room equipped according to the legislation for reception. Or, if it is not his property, he is obliged in this room to conclude a lease and pay there either at his own expense or from the funds he receives in the Supreme Council for the execution of his parliamentary powers. Yeah? Yes. So if on a three-story building that belongs to the father of this national MP, there's a sign that it's a receptionist national MP, it's not a receptionist yet. None of the people who were there could explain when and how a national MP would receive people there. I mean, I'm asking you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to settle the legislation that appears to be the national receptionist of the people's MP, the public. And we have, I say, the barrels already have -- the admissions of the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u28	The National MP, National Deputy Sameilenko, is transferring the right to question Hennadia Samofalov, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Next question will be Vassil Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u29	I have a question for Andrei Petrovich. Andrej Petrovich, who's in the districts, probably every deputy, well, every deputy gets away from our voters because he's short of wages, he's short of pensions and so on. Unkind words are addressed to the Government. Particularly acute criticism is from the population category, which today cannot work alone, as a rule. And the only source of their existence is the State, the assistance of the State. Many questions were raised regarding the need for technical rehabilitation and other means. Unfortunately, however, this is not enough. What is planned by the Government to remedy this situation next year? Answer me, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u30	Please, Andrew Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u31	Now, one minute. The amount involved in car allocation is increased by 18 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u32	Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u33	I give the word to Ostapov Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u34	Sémerak's tail, please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u35	I have a question for the Minister of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u36	Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u37	Mr. Secretary, unfortunately, you have to say that you've already turned, you're not turning, you've turned the state into a police force. And that level of contempt that you're showing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not to personally every deputy, is even more so as you're showing to Ukrainian citizens. You're teaching us some kind of help. And unfortunately, not from you, but from your deputy, who is also a violation of legislation, the answer. I asked you as a citizen of Ukraine, not as a national deputy, that I was beaten by a police officer in the courtroom and I was on medical leave. I've given you all the help and copies that support your fact. And even in your letter, you confirmed what it was. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u38	He'll finish his thought. I can hear you. Please make up your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u39	But, Mr. Secretary, it is a homage when you respond to a man’s appeal in late September by referring to your decision in late August. This indicates that you are prejudiced toward the entire Ukrainian people. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u41	Well, first of all, with regard to the operation of police officers. They can only be evaluated by the prosecutor’s office. I mean, if you think that one of the police co-workers did something illegal, did it, only the D.A. gives them credit. So to ask us this question, it's probably not even entirely correct according to the legislation in force. Well, the rest of the insults about me from you, well, that says you're disrespecting Kabmin, not my disrespect for the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u42	Olena Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u43	I have a question for Mr. Mogilov. Mr. Minister, the gross violations of the legislation that your department has been able to commit have become practically permanent. And I have a particular question that concerns terror against our colleague, Eugene Suslov, and his family. Why was the investigating officer of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in the Kyiv region violated the requirements of article 94-98 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, as well as parts of the fourth article 97 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, according to which an application or report of a crime should be examined prior to the case? It is known that such an examination is carried out by a prosecutor, investigator, or authority within a period of not more than 10 days by removing explanations from individual citizens or officials or by requiring the necessary documents. Then why is the investigator violating legislation?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u44	I thank you for explaining article 97 of the Ukrainian KPC, believe me, the investigators know it. Thus, if there are sufficient grounds for a criminal case, a criminal case will be violated. And if some of the documents that spoke of the composition of the crime were refused or refused, it was decided that a search would be carried out to find these documents, and they were found, these documents. And what I'm going to tell you is that the reason you're going to make a criminal case is that more than 20 acres of land was illegally purchased by this citizen you're talking about. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u45	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u46	Yuri Carmazin. Please pass the word to Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u47	Jarsenij Yatzenyuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u48	Questions to Clovis. Dear Andrew Petrovich, for the first time in 20 years of Ukrainian independence, the price of gas amounted to $500. You didn't sign any gas contracts with Russia. The Russian Federation denies Ukraine access to the Russian market. The Russian Federation denies Ukraine access to the market for Ukrainian services. Russia claimed to join the World Trade Organization. None of the countries, both the United States and the European Union, have refused to negotiate with Russia and have succeeded in making progress and opening up the Russian market. Dear Andrew Petrovich, who has decided to give up Ukraine’s economic interests? Why Ukraine did not list economic requirements for the Russian Federation for a new gas contract, for access to the market and for the protection of Ukrainian goods.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u49	Andrew Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u50	Thank you, Your Honor Arsenia Petrovich. This is a very important question. As far as gas negotiations are concerned. Meanwhile, gas negotiations are under way and a new contract is being prepared. There will be a new contract or contract change. And I can't now say the exact number that will be in this contract for gas price, but I can assure you that the price of gas will be much lower than the price that works at this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u51	Andrija Petrovich, for the people's deputies, in addition, what is the price for gas for Ukraine on the border today, taking into account the negative $100 that Ukraine receives, and what is the European gas price?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u52	As far as gas prices are concerned. A $100 discount across the border is $414 per thousand cubes. If there's no discount, that's $514 for a thousand cubes. As for other countries, this price on the border is 320-360 dollars per thousand cubes. So we have the sense to negotiate with Russia to lower the price of gas and to review the contract that is currently in effect. As for state interests and relations, trade relations with the Russian Federation, you probably know that Mikola Janović Azarov signed a free trade agreement with the SND states, and this contract is very important for Ukraine. If we ratify this contract, we're going to work with all the countries of the SND without being seized except oil and gas. And in my opinion, since January 1, 2012, if we ratify this contract in the Supreme Council, we will already be working under this contract. As far as the European Union is concerned, you know that the negotiation process on the free trade area with the European Union is actually over. And we're already working on the issue, the contract itself, the text itself, in order to be willing to initial this contract. As far as the association is concerned, a negotiation process with the European Union is under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u53	Alexander Steshenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u54	Please give my word to my colleague Victor Vasilovich Taran-Terrena.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u55	Victor Terrence. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u56	Thank you. I have a question for the Home Secretary, Mr. Mogilov. Mr. Mogilov, the President of Ukraine recently stated that there is a mass acquisition of weapons by citizens in order to overthrow today's government, this is the President's statement. And this statement was very disturbing for people, especially in view of the fate of Gaddafi, Mubarak, and other dictators. And so which of these is the information in the police? Does the President have information and the police don't? Where do citizens buy weapons, who and who are these citizens: Chernobyl, teachers, Afghans? Please. And this is how you act against the President. Well, you're not doing well, Mr. Mogilov. We can't act against the President. The president says there's a mass purchase of weapons, and contrary to the law, you're reducing the number of police officers, reducing internal affairs. In doing so, young workers are removed, put in place of them, you know, donetically. Well, you can't act against the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u57	Please, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u58	You must have left the hall because the first questions to me were about this question. I answered that. And if you're "careful" about the IMF budget, I'm grateful if you make demands on the IMF budget increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u59	Edward Pavlovenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Chechev Mikhail Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u61	Mikhailo Chechetov. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u62	I have a question for Minister of Education, Dmitri Vladimirovich Tobacco. Dmitry Vladimirović, I had to be a delegate to the assembly of educational staff, and I received a lot of letters from various regions of the country, where people are thanking me for the brilliantly held convention. where an interesting discussion had taken place, different views had been expressed and a unified concept of education reform had finally been supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] And people ask one question: When does what was supported in the room, the position of the Ministry, which was supported in the Hall when it was formalized in the final document, the law, will be passed on to the Supreme Council, and we will consider it? Thanks again for the brilliant convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u63	Dear Michael Vasilovich! On October 28, this year, the Third All - Ukrainian Education Association, which was selected from all regions of Ukraine by a thousand delegates, 976 attended. Prior to the meeting, 379 sectional round tables were held, where the main document was discussed: "The National Strategy for the Development of Education of Ukraine for 2012-2021". The assembly voted that the editorial commission should continue to work for two weeks and take into account all the suggestions that came from the convention delegates and public organizations regarding the national strategy, its individual chapters, and so forth. [[This was officially given her authority.]] Thus, the editorial commission will conclude its work on November 12, this year, with a final effort. Because more than five thousand comments and amendments to the document were received. Then, according to a resolution adopted unanimously, a national strategy will be introduced for the consideration of the President of Ukraine, asking to be approved as a document by the President’s decree, as discussed in October 2011 and approved in March 2002, a national doctrine on which the strategy is based also in 2002 by the President’s decree. So on November 12th, we're going to finish this work and we're going to send it out for adoption in the form of an edict, as it was with the doctrine 10 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u64	People's MP Pudov, BUYT faction, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u65	I have a question for Mr. Mogilov. I think you remember that all your predecessors, apart from Vasilishina and Durdins, ended very badly. You're wondering why this happened, why? I think the main thing is that they're servants of the master, not the law. Have you thought about it or not? And the second. The barrel is not the best comparison. It's where Gaddafi ended his fate. Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u66	In my activities, I will act only in accordance with the legislation in force. So I feel that such a fate does not threaten me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u67	National Deputy Nadosha, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u68	I have a question for the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. I want to go back to cutting down the trains that our Crucifixion is currently dealing with is a question. We agree that we should shorten and regulate this mode of transport. But there is a city called Kremenchuk, which has a direct train of 7980 with Moscow, a train loaded with 90 percent, in fact, every day it leaves the Kremenchuk railway station. Is there any point in shortening it? That's the first question. The other one. Is this not a reduction in the task of any commercial structures for clearing transport corridors? Question three. Is there any way to stop it? Thank you, and please consider this an official request. In writing, I'll send it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u69	Yes, please, who? First Deputy Minister Jefimenko will report?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u70	Thank you to the distinguished national MP for asking. Regarding train cuts. Today, the Crucifixion is systematically reviewing the movement of all trains that are being carried out in Ukraine and in the future. Only trains or wagons that do not exceed 15 percent change. And the Crucifixion keeps completely alternate routes, all the links between each other. Regarding the Kremenchuk-Moscow train, we will give you a personal answer to this question. There are no commercial orders on this issue. I would like to point out to the distinguished National MP that today, the damage of the Ukrainian Railway from the transfer of the civil debt category, and every year, Ukrzalznica transports 550 million people, amounts to 6.5 billion dollars. And that's what this is all about to minimize these issues. And the main task is to provide all the needs of our population to move in any direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u71	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, the faction of "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u72	Arsenius Yatsenyuk. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u73	Dear Andrew Petrovich, I'm bringing to your attention that the price of gas is not $414 on the border, but 456 is once. With VAT, it's going to be more than $500 -- that's two. Third. You didn't answer the question. You know that the Russian Federation will never become a member of the World Trade Organization without Ukraine's consent. You betrayed the Black Sea Navy, you gave up the issue of Ukrainian security policy, you gave up everything you could. You have one map left: that is Ukraine’s membership in the World Trade Organization. Give me an answer to the question: When will you join the working group and when will you send Russia a tariff request for gas, a new contract and access to the Russian market? Ukraine must demand clearly in Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u74	Thank you, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich, for the very important question. As far as the price of gas is concerned, at a $100 discount it's $414 per thousand cubes. And that's the official price. You may have calculated that this price could be on January 1. Yes, it could be on January 1, 2012, the price you called. As far as WTO is concerned. As far as WTO is concerned, in 2008, Prime Minister Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko signed a letter in agreement with Russia's accession to WTO. But that's what we're dealing with. And you know that this is the kind of leverage that we use in the negotiation process with Russia in terms of changing the terms of the gas supply contract to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u75	Ostap Semiraq, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Kurd Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u77	Stepan Kurpil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u78	I have a question for the Minister of Internal Affairs. Please explain why our colleague Eugene Suslov, a national deputy, was involved in the search of a section with automatic weapons. [[And he lives there, he doesn't just hang a tablet.]] Their main task is to combat organized criminal groups and individuals engaged in terrorist activities. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a criminal case has been committed under article 358 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, namely, "Make and use forged documents", does not apply to organized criminal groups or terrorists. Perhaps it would be better for the special forces to use in the fight against those who buy and sell weapons in a mass way?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u79	Please, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u80	If you do not know, I have told you that during the search, weapons were removed to be fired with a nine - millimeter cartridge to make sure that you do. So, given that the weapons were removed there, the special forces were attracted to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. I propose that the honourable colleagues on the questions that have been raised directly by the national MPs, who may be dissatisfied with the answer, we will send them to the relevant ministries and authorities, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in order that they, taking into account all the circumstances, additional information and reasoning, will provide answers to the questions that have been asked in the session room today. Is there no objection? None. I thank the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for participating in the "hour of questions to the government." Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! According to article 25 of the Rules, it takes 30 minutes on Friday to make parliamentary inquiries. Allow me to make the parliamentary inquiries that have come and are made in the secretariat. People's deputies' questions came from Ukraine: Eugene Zarkov to the President of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of the name of the Lviv airport (probably the appointment of Lviv airport) by the name of Stephen Bandera, a person who worked with the fascist Abber during the Great War and fought against the Soviet Liberation Army (I read, as recorded). Dear National Deputies! I vote in favour of the MP's request. [[11:07:00]] For 237 A motion for a request to the President of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[11:07:23]] For 246 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Alexander Cnervolenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the destruction and restoration of Ukraine's central building. Alexander Cnervolenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the opacity and complexity of the process of developing the Ukrainian State Budget for 2012. Groups of National Deputies (Korz, Andros and others) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the attack by Kharkiv City Head Hennady Kernes on the property of the civil organization of the Dinamo Physculture and Sport Society of Ukraine. Zoya Shishkina to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal limitation of the rights of Yulia Timoshenko to meet and communicate. Zoya Shishkina to the People's Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, concerning the illegal search of the public reception and the house of the Ukrainian national deputy Eugene Suslov, and the use of brute physical force against him. Jury Karmazin to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Prosecutor General of Ukraine, the head of the Vinicko District Administration for the use of immediate measures to address the serious violations of the constitutional rights of residents of the villages of Ludavka, Kurilivci, Počapinica, Novoselica and Vasilivka of the Vinnitsky region, the illegal seizure of property of territorial communities and of the Ukrainian people, the destruction of a large part of the forest and the creation of an ecologically hazardous environment in the region, as expressed in the construction of the waste treatment plant with violations of land and environmental legislation. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the grant of the 2011 budget of the city of Kirovgrad for the calculation of salaries and the payment of heat services. Victor Turmanov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to address the acute social problems of pensioners of the decommissioned Removska mine in Snowy Donetské region and provide them with financial support for the purchase of domestic fuel. Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of additional subsidies from the State budget to complete the construction of the central district hospital in the village of the Grand Pisarovka District of Suma. Vladimir Zubanova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for granting the Kyiv Municipal Academy of Opera and Ballet to children and to the status of the National. Grigory Smituha to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the elimination of years of delays with the reconstruction of the school in the village of Stobyhówka Kamin-Kashri district of Volin region. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the construction and reconstruction of water networks in the Narodiči village of the People’s Region of the Žitomir region. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on access to and quality control of services provided by government agencies and organizations via the Internet. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the kindergarten in the city of the Ternopil District Assembly and the construction of a kindergarten in the village of Wall of Butchik district of Ternopil. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on granting the official text of the Agreement on the Establishment of a Free Trade Area within the framework of the Commonwealth of Independent States signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine at a meeting of the heads of the governments of the member states of the Commonwealth of Independent States in St. Petersburg on 18 October 2011. Eugene Kzarkov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional and labour rights of crew members of the Heat Company Odessa and for the return of labour savings of the National Shipbuilding Company Black Sea Shipping. Catherine Vaschuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to regulate the support mechanism for dairy and meat farmers as one of the main conditions for preserving the dairy and meat sectors. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the completion of the construction of the gas pipeline in Podgajica to the village of the Central Podgajetski district of Ternopil district and for the reconstruction of the roof for the administration in the town of Ternopil. Caterina Vaschuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of compensation for municipal services and on the free supply of coal to households of miners and pensioners working in mines and living in central heating houses. Kseniya Llapina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the establishment of an interdisciplinary commission in the absence of accounting and for ignoring the decision of international arbitration at the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent territorial confusion and to increase responsibility for non-compliance with the rules of cleanliness. The Group of Greenews to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of the Tarutine-Arciz-Tatarbunari main gas pipeline leading to the Sarat city village. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the private house to the village of Chernigivka, Zaporez Region, group II disabled from general illness, Leonid Tutunov. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, on the demands of participants in all Ukrainian, regional and local protest actions on the need for withdrawal from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's law on guarantees of the State for the enforcement of judicial decisions as one that violates the constitutional rights of citizens, the restoration of full pension payments, the execution of earlier court decisions and the provision of funds in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2012 for the unconditional implementation of social laws. Mikoli Shershuna to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on measures to improve soil fertility in the Plains region. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Chernigiv City Head, the head of the Chernigiv District Public Administration for payment to the subsidiary Passervis of the Open Shareholders Association Chernigivtoservis, a subsidy to compensate for damages from the free transfer of the passenger premium categories. [[Androsa, Komara, and others]] Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the head of the Odessa District State Administration for the verification of the legality and justification of the decision-making of the Odessa City Council session since 20 September 2011, on the transfer to private property of land situated on the Odessa Sea Coast of Odessa Beach and the resolution of the issue of the presence in Odessa City Service Persons for signs of crime, as provided for in articles 191 and 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine as a result of the adoption of the said decisions, the non-compliance of land use of the water fund, the verification of violations of Ukrainian Information Laws and Public Information, the use of appropriate response measures. Mikoli Shershuna to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the forecasting of funds for the purchase of medical vehicles in the Plains region. Zinovia Shkutjak and Yuri Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine on the use of response measures to prevent violations of the constitutional right of members of the Vilshanka food union, located within the administrative and territorial boundaries of the village of Vilshan Townishten district of Cherkas region, on the verification of the facts of the unlawful actions of the officials of the joint association during the exercise of administrative and administrative functions, on the illegal basis of the abuse of their official status, on the alienation of property, resulting in serious consequences and in the prosecution of the perpetrators. Catherine Samoylik to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, for the State Support of the Herson Shipbuilding and Shipbuilding Plant. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the legality of the grounds for refusing to carry out a free current renovation of the home of a family member who died during the Great Homeland War. Sergey Shevchuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for the capital repair of the section of the road to a number of villages in the Lokachin region of Volin region. Sergei Vlasenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Levian City Head, for the purpose of bringing to justice persons who have granted permission for the opening ceremony, which was not put into operation and the unbuilt arena "Arena Lviv", which has created a danger to the lives and health of 30,000 people present. Sergey Vlasenka to the head of the High Council of Justice regarding the notoriously unjust decision to arrest Julia Timoshenko as Judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Rodion Kiriev. Vasil Gureev to the head of the High Council of Justice on the violation of the current legislation of Ukraine, the judicial oath and, most likely, the criminal offence of judges of the Sevastopol Administrative Court of Appeal by Galina Ishchenko, Tamar Dadinski and Oleg Kucheruk in the case of the appeal of the Sevastopol City Council against the decision of the Sevastopol District Administrative Court of March 17, 2011. Vassil Gureyev to the head of the High Council of Justice on the violation of the current legislation of Ukraine and the jury's oath to the judge of the Sevastopol District Administrative Court, Olga Prohorczuk, in the case of the subpoena for the Civil Society "Pilot" to the Sevastopol City Council. Groups of National Deputies to the High Council of Justice, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Kyiv District Public Administration for the Protection of Constitutional Rights of Ukrainian Citizens and Young Children for Housing. [[Lithuania, Stemashenko, Bondik and others]] Catherine Samoylik to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the preservation of the company of the Closed Shareholder Society in Herson. Valery Baranov to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the need to improve effective legislation on the promotion of agro-industrial production. Vladimir Stretovic to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the use of measures to bring Ukraine’s legislation into line with the procedure for purchasing health care facilities at the expense of the state of forms of raw accounting and addressing the causes of corruption in this area. Yuri Hanushtak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the 2012 budget allocation. Alexander Schepelev to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine for the development of a comprehensive program for the modernization of rural heating systems. Vladimir Danilenko to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine regarding the ignoring of the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, the facts of violations by the Director of the State Training Institute "Schoskin Centre for Vocational and Technical Education", which were discovered during the appropriate examination. Alexander Schepeleva to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on urgent measures to prevent the outbreak of a crust epidemic in Ukraine. Paul Silent to the Ukrainian Minister of Culture on the inefficient use of budget for the production of national films by the Ukrainian State Agency for Film. Sergey Tereshuka to the Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the urgent reconstruction of the sewage collector with pump station in the village of Majdanecke Talniv district of Cherkas region. Sergey Tereshuka to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine for the non-fulfilment of the land lease agreement by renters in the village of Teterówka Jaskowski district of the Cherkas region. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Administration of the President of Ukraine for the organization of the exhibition in Kiev, Lviv, Kharkiv and Donetsk Books Photo Album "The Year of Development. [[Zabluk, Uphill, Woodland]] The Church is moving forward", with 504 photographs of the head of the Church State Administration, Sergio Toluba. Valeria Baranov to the Director General of the National Railway Administration of Ukraine on the need to restore the operation of railway cassettes from the sale of railway tickets in the territory of the Chernigiv district of Zaporez Region and to stop separate trains at Stulnev, Nizana, Upper Tokmak-II stations. Irina Herashchenko and Olga Gerasimük to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Mikolaiyev City Head for the violation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine in the establishment and activities of the local schools of Mikolayev. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the ability of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to ensure the execution of the judgment. Arsenija Yatsenuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the signing by the Prime Minister of Ukraine of the agreement to establish a free trade zone within the framework of the Commonwealth of Independent States and the use of appropriate measures of prosecutorial response in the event of violations. Arsenija Yatsenuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of an examination by the Attorney General of the Ukraine of the illegal actions of law enforcement officials of the Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Odessa region and the use of measures of prosecutorial response. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the fate of the charitable contributions of many Ukrainian citizens to the construction of the Taras Church at the foot of Montenegro in Caneva, collected by the All-Ukrainian Society of Education. Vasila Wondernova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the conduct of the verification of illegal activities in the area of the Volin area of Autoline and Cervis-line associations located in Lutsk. Kirila Kulikov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of applying amnesty to the former head of the permanent committee of Kyivrada on land matters of Alexia Evlaha. Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the lack of action and for the failure of the prosecutor of the Ternopil district of Ivan Melniczuk to respond to the parliamentary request for the verification of the arrival and use of the Ternopil district council of more than 5 million dollars, which, according to the court's decision, the private firm SC-Service-Centre Stry was obliged to compensate. Elina Shishkina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the beating and application of torture by the employees of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region to Alexander Rafalski. Vassil Spak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of prosecutorial measures against officials of the Open Shareholders Association of the Republican Financial and Technical Insurance Company Krymagropostac for the non-refunding of funds to the State Budget. Vladimir Stretovic to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the improper treatment of the Office of the Prosecutor's Office of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the legislative provision of legal protection for the request of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasil Har. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the artificial creation of evidence of the charge and other falsification of criminal material in relation to the charge of the former Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenka, in the judicial investigation and legal evaluation of the actions of officials of the Office of the Prosecutor General of Ukraine involved in this forgery, as well as the use of urgent measures to renew the constitutional rights and freedoms of Yuri Lucenka and other defendants in this criminal case. Lilia Grigorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal closure of Ukrainian classes at School No. 22 of the city of Lugansk. Leonidas Grač to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the prevention of the intent of raiding the Society with limited responsibility for Vikado. [[The city of Feodosia, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Alexander Steshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal search of the public reception and residence of the Ukrainian national deputy Eugene Suslov. Olga Bodnar to the Attorney General of Ukraine for delaying the prosecution of the city of Kyiv in investigating a criminal case committed by the tragic death of Nina Lavrinenko. Peter Simonnck to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the gravity and improper investigation by the law enforcement authorities in Suma area of the case of fraud against citizens. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-payment of money to black people, Afghans, children of war and other tax categories of citizens by decision of the courts. Elina Shishkino to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the unlawful actions of Vladimir Zamula, deputy of the Novosanjar District Council of the Poltava Region, director of limited liability societies named Shevchenka and Sokol. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to provide an answer by the prosecutor of the Mikolai district to parliamentary appeals concerning illegal actions by officials of the U.S.O.P.O. of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Mikolaiiv region. Sergey Chrapova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the actions of the officials of the Council of Sinélník City of Dnipropetrovsk, which are of a corrupt nature. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the organization of a legal check on the acquisition of multimillion-dollar assets by the mayor of Odessa, Alexi Kostusev. [[Kendezor, Karpuk and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of U.S. citizenship in the Odessa District Council of Alexander Pressman. [[Kendezor, Karpuk and others]] Sergija Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the public opinion of Lubna Poltava region by the position and responses of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the de facto avoidance of the investigation of the alienation and forced destruction of the Lubenski City Culture House, the role of officials in this area of local self-government, representatives of prosecutors who did not respond to violations of Ukrainian legislation and the need to bring these persons to justice. Groups of National Deputies to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the review of the appeal of the citizen of Ludmila Norva on the possibility of reimbursement of the funds paid for the further acquisition of the vehicle to the limited liability of UPS Ukraine in the city of Chernigov. [[Plotnikov, Prutnik, Bondik]] Andrija Pavlovsky, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, prosecutor of Kiev City for the verification of the legality of the establishment and operation of small architectural forms in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Paul Silent to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the non-admission of the desert-water status as a historical habitat. Peter Simonnck to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the cessation of unlawful non-execution of authorizations for the consideration of issues initiated in the established order of land use by the Spring, East-II, Coast and Gulf cooperatives, located at: the city of Kyiv, Lakerna Street, 5. Vladimir Jáporovsky to the city’s Kiev head, the head of the Kiev City State Administration, for failing to admit to the new General Plan of Kiev the construction of parks, squares, forest funds, and recreational zones, as their destruction will lead to a critical deterioration of the environmental situation in the capital. Alexander Golub to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for his contribution to the restoration of the centralized library system in the Brovar district of Kyiv. Alexia Plotnikov to Kyiv City State Administration, Święszyń District in Kiev State Administration, Main Authority of Management of the City of Kiev on the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of residents of the Romani Rollan Boulevard, the Lezi Kurbas Avenue and the Toulouse Street of the Holy See district of Kiev on the need for comprehensive equipment of a new modern playground for recreation and sports for children and youth, in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Laws on the Welfare of Populations, and the "On the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev Hero". Sergey Chrapova to the prosecutor of the Dnipropetrovsk district regarding the situation surrounding the hostel in the town of Dnipropetrovsk on the street of Novoselivska, 42. Thus, honourable national MPs, 132 parliamentary requests have been made, including one request addressed to the President of Ukraine. Honourable national MPs, a group of deputies, have been contacted by a number of deputies with the documents drafted to give them the right to speak in connection with the dissatisfaction of the reply to the parliamentary questions. These are Ukrainian national deputies Vladimir Yavorowski and Yuri Karmazin. I'm telling you that MPs have that right, but within 30 minutes, they've been asked to come forward. Since I began to make parliamentary inquiries at 11: 06 a.m., we still have the opportunity to speak to two deputies. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Then there's Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u82	Dear voters! You probably already know, I think almost everyone knows about the absolutely fantastic affair of the Lyvells. I went to the Attorney General's Office to have very specific facts and put them in my address so that the Attorney General would investigate them. The facts are therefore completely incorrigible. I got an answer, which is very clear: everything was fine, there was no crime, and 3 billion dollars that didn't go into the national Ukrainian budget -- it's all right and very normal. That's why I just want to tell the voters. Since the prosecution doesn't want to do this in principle, although I've made these facts clear, I just want to remind you again, first of all, that the electorate knows all this without me. That in 1992, there was a law that was passed to lure investors into Ukraine, that if there was investment money from abroad, you could import materials without import duty, without VAT, and so on. And that was right or wrong – another question. In 2003, the law abolished these benefits because we completely put our entire oil industry on its knees at the expense of these imports. So since 2033, there's been a law that forbids it. Apparently, a lot of money has gone, and the crematory lowest court accepts that you can get fuel around the law. They drove the fuel. Every second litre of fuel in 2010 was driven by the Lionella. The Kharkiv court annuls the court’s decision. Yesterday we chose Pasenyuk, and I couldn't ask him a question. His court, which he presided over, the Chief Executive, overturned all the objections that were, and opened up the green light to make Livela profit, impose. In this connection, the journalists have been very confidently investigating the National MP from the Zubik Region Party, who is behind this operation. Because when we say "no money," there is money. Just don't steal them. And then it'll be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u83	I invite Yuri Karmazin to address me in connection with his dissatisfaction with the MP’s request. All necessary documents have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u84	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! On June 17, you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, in the plenary session, announced my request to the Attorney-General and Head of the State Tax Service to organize a review of the gross violation of the rights of more than 500 people in the village of Novolexandrovka Odessa District for illegal possession by officials of the Iskra-South T.O.O.U.U.U. In view of the fact that the Public Prosecutor’s Office, the State Tax Service, has carried out the examination as usual: brutally, incoherently, — me and the national deputy Shkutzak have again sent a parliamentary request under the name of the Attorney General of Ukraine Pshonka and the head of the State Tax Administration regarding the improper response to the MP’s request. Do you think you've responded properly? No, it's not right. I am addressing you, Mr. Attorney General, in connection with what? Because you're tasked with signing the answers to your deputies' repeated parliamentary enquiries. And in particular, it was assigned to sign a letter with Skutka in October to Mr. Gabrieluk, and you can see that it's all good, and I'm going to give you a message from the rostrum. That's good. The head of the village council turned to what was used for the operations of the land plots of 900 hectares for 10 years without a contract. For the village and the area, 450,000 dollars have been damaged. And you have "all good," according to Mr. Gavriluk's version. Another question. This is the very TOV "Iskra-South" that takes place on the second floor of the House of Culture of the village of Novoleksandrovka with a total area of 207 meters, not a single copy of it in the rural district budget. And you have "all good" in the Attorney General's office! Four men, after a man raises a question, come from the police, remove a computer block, collect magazines, everything. Four men! There's nothing more to do with the birds of our Mogilov! And you've got "all right," Mr. Psoriasis and Mr. Gabrieluk! As a result, I demand that you, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, control that people’s deputies, especially those who are asked again, receive answers from the first, from the first, and I warn you, not from the third, tenth, twenty - five deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin asked the correct question. I will ask the Secretariat for the next Conciliation Council to prepare general information on parliamentary requests and on how to respond to parliamentary requests. In fact, from a formal point of view. Because from a formal point of view, meaningful problems begin if there is a violation. Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the Faction "BUT"- "Fatherland" and the faction "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense"- under the Rules require a 30-minute recess to hold consultations and meetings of the Conciliation Council of Ukraine. I'll call it a 12-hour break for 10 minutes. Or maybe if you don't mind us discussing other issues, and we did the Conciliation Council? Oh, no? No, no, no. Then, yes, the leaders of the MP factions, please gather, and the groups, in the office you know, already known. And for all MPs, I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, please take up jobs in the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you of the outcome of the meeting of the Conciliation Council. Since we agreed on a series of issues, particularly in relation to. and in relation to the preparation of the Electoral Law, and the consideration of the draft law in the second reading regime on amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on humanizing liability for violations in the field of economic activity, we agreed that on Thursday we would make a decision on the establishment of a temporary special commission that would prepare a draft electoral law. And there was an agreement on the faction's proposal, including "The Fatherland," for a mandatory review on Friday of this bill: the humanization of responsibility for various kinds of economic offences. At the same time, today's "BUT – "Fatherland" faction during the Conciliation Council suggested that the issue be deferred for further reconciliation. In the process, three factions and a parliamentary group took the matter up. Understanding the need for further compromise, they accepted the proposal to support the proposal of the "BUT – "Fatherland" faction, which was joined by the faction "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense", to postpone consideration of the issue. At the same time, the Conciliation Council also accepted the recommendation and accepted the suggestion that, in view of the need to consider the following bills and because we lost time to hold consultations, that we would not spend an hour of speeches in the "Varison" and by 14 o'clock the Supreme Council would be working.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u87	Just a minute. I'm leading you to a well-known complex decision that has been agreed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider the necessary bills and will not spend an hour asking questions before. I'm sorry, she won't be performing at the Miscellaneous. I, my honourable colleagues, think we should agree on arrangements that allow us to maintain the balance of agreements and compromises in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You don't need to vote on that? All right, I'll put it to a vote. Please, Your Honor, support the decision of the Conciliation Council of Ukraine to continue its consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for today by deferring its consideration of Bill 9221 to 14 hours. Please vote. [[12:53:35]] For 339 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The draft Law 8718 is announced for consideration, I am sorry, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 on the payment of debts to Ukraine's State Budget for Subcredit granted to energy-generating companies, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Asked to consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:54:19]] For the 220. Decision taken. Yuri Miroshnichenko, Permanent Representative of the President, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council. Please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u88	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Representative of the President of Ukraine Yuri Miroshnichenko. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The State Budget Act on Ukraine 2011 adopted by the Supreme Council on 8 April 2011 on the payment of debts to Ukraine's State Budget for sub-credits granted to energy-generating companies cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. [[Registration number 8718]] The Head of State proposes to adjust the corresponding income and expenditure figures of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2011, as defined in the Act, since they do not take into account the changes envisaged by the laws amending the 2011 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine from 14 June and 5 July 2011. As a result, the government budget's revenue for 2011 was unduly reduced by $14 billion and expenditure by $12 billion. In addition, the adoption of the law will result in a gap between the total amount of expenditure to the State budget and the amount of income secured by the chief budget administrators. In order to resolve the disagreements, the Head of State proposes in the law under consideration to correct the relevant indicators, taking into account the changes made to the 2011 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a recalculation. I would like to stress that Bill 9221 has been postponed, and today this bill will not be considered, will not be discussed. Well, there were other questions there. Please, Valery Alexiyovich Baranov, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Budget Affairs has prepared for consideration a draft Act amending the State Budget 2011 Act, number 8,718 with proposals from the President. Since the arrival of the President of Ukraine's proposals by the Supreme Council in September and October, a number of bills have been passed that have been amended to the State Budget Act for this year. With Kabmin, we prepared a comparative table that takes into account the President's proposals, as well as other changes adopted by the Supreme Council to the State Budget Act 2011. The Cabinet of Ministers expressed the same position on the bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, notes that the proposals of the President of Ukraine are well-founded and worthy of support. The Budget Committee concluded that it had decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 8718 with the proposals of the President of Ukraine in accordance with the comparative table provided. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt a bill in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we must vote on the appropriate amendments proposed by the President of Ukraine. So I'm voting on the president's amendment, it's alone, it's whole, it's counted by the committee. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the President of Ukraine, which is considered by the committee. Please vote. [[12:59:36]] For 245 It's a readjustment. I now put to the vote, please note, the adoption of the law in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, which is supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:00:06]] For 247 The law is passed. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget of Ukraine is being reviewed. Oh, I'm sorry, there's the President's veto. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, is under review. [[of 4.11.2011]] The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:01:02]] For 248 Decision taken. The reporter is the prime minister's deputy. Who's going to report? Dear colleagues, report to the rostrum immediately. First Deputy Minister of Finance, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, please. Andrew Pinchuk will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 20 October 2011 the Act on the Amendment of the Tax Code and some other legislative acts on a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting. The president did not sign this bill, more faithfully, the law, for one reason: because this law included a rule that did not apply to a simplified tax system and regulated export operations from Ukraine in the customs regime of export of cereals and technical crops. This leads to a 2012 budget balance. Differences are estimated at between 3 billion and 5 billion dollars. So the Ministry of Finance and the government were asked to veto the President in this particular part -- and delete the specified rule, namely paragraph 2 of paragraph 15 of section I, from the law. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u93	Have a seat, please. Andrew Pinchuk will report the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u94	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Let me report on the position of the Committee on Ukrainian Presidential Proposals for Amendments to the Tax Code and some other legislative acts on a simplified system of accounting and reporting from October 20, 2011, No.3931-6. This issue was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 4 November 2011. The President of Ukraine made a proposal on the need to delete paragraph 2 of paragraph 15 of section I of paragraph 1 of the Ukrainian Act. The standard provides for the introduction of a zero tax rate on the added cost of export operations from Ukraine in the customs regime of exportation of cereals and technical crops by agricultural producers and enterprises that directly purchased such grain crops in agricultural enterprises. According to the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as of 04.11.2011, the President's stated proposals are supported. The Committee recommends by its decisions the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on a simplified system of accounting and reporting from 20 October 2011 No3931-6, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! We need to put the President's amendment to the vote. She's supported by a committee. Please get ready for work. I'm asking you, let's do some work. I am voting on an amendment by the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and to some other Ukrainian legislation on a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting. Registration number 8521 of the law. Please vote for the amendment, the committee supported. [[13:05:22]] For 273 Correction accepted. I'm betting on a motion for the adoption of a law in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8521]] Please vote. [[13:05:48]] For 266 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 is being announced for consideration. [[on the judiciary and other matters]] I'm betting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, Igor Sharov's proposal. [[13:06:21]] For 232 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Finance Minister Ribak Sergey Aleksandrovich, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Presidency, distinguished national deputies! On July 8, 2011 Ukraine passed the Act on the Judicial Assembly, which takes effect on November 1, 2011. The law provides for the recording of revenue from the judicial assembly to the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine and the channelling of these funds to the administration of justice. With a view to the practical implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly, the Ministry of Finance, taking into account the proposals made by the judicial authority, has drafted a bill amending the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2011. And this law is intended to include the judicial congregation in the State Budget special fund. In particular, this law, which we propose to adopt, provides for the current state budget fund to be allocated over 300 million dollars to the judiciary, which will be allocated to the work of our judicial system, namely, the payment of work, the direct execution of justice, the payment and the payment of capital expenses and other expenses. That's why this bill is being considered, and we ask you to support it and vote in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, are we going to discuss this? Sign up. Ah, the head of the Baran committee, and then we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u98	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budget Questions at its meeting considered the bill. I will not repeat its contents. All I'm going to do is add that the bill contains provisions for the redistribution of the individual expenditure of the State Budget General Fund between the State Administration and the Sevastopol City Administration of $250,000. The bill also proposes to increase the budget of the State Budget Fund for the Ministry of Health by 550 000 per budget program for Ukrainian citizens abroad. In general, the bill is balanced by the state budget's income and expenditure. At the same time, it should be noted that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted Bill No. 8718 on 6th, 18th and 20th of October this year and today, amendments to the State Budget Act for this year have been adopted. So they need to adjust accordingly the overall figures of the State Budget in the text section of the bill and in Appendices 1 and 2 to it, taking into account the changes adopted by the laws to ensure that the State Budget indicators are balanced. In addition, it is necessary to establish that the Committee supports the proposal of the National Deputy of Ukraine Lukyanov, set out in the draft Act amending Appendix No. 7 to the Act on State Budget No. 9359 on ensuring the rational use of State budget subsidies to local budgets to implement measures for the socio-economic development of individual areas. The main scientific and expert administration, in its conclusion to the law, proposes to adopt it as a basis. Minfin's backing up. The committee decided to recommend Bill No. 9296 to the Supreme Council on the outcome of the first reading, to adopt as a basis and as a whole a law taking into account the budget proposals made by the Committee in a letter to the Supreme Council on this bill. So the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u99	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u100	together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, it is necessary to provide appropriate clarifications to the text and addenda to the bill when it is adopted when it is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. Please support our committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please write down if there is a need to express your opinion on this bill. If there are no speakers, we will vote. Names of the national MPs, please. Stanislaw Arzeviteen. And then there's Ganushka. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! It looks strange how we are now invited to look at the project: immediately on the first and immediately on the second reading. At the same time, the Budget Committee has already decided where they are redistributing them. I'm sorry, it can't be that way. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that will not happen. Because I am expressing in this rostrum a denial against the adoption of this law in two reads at once. That's the first one. This cannot be the case under the Law on the Rules of Procedure. That's the first one. It's different. I wanted to draw attention to that financial resource that, God forbid, it was referred to in the deputy minister's report. I was just surprised that when he said about 300 million, even though we have a figure of 278 million 450.1 thousand. And obviously this is a white, and this is a whole 28 probably not to be used from this rostrum. I would like to say that the situation in the judiciary today is catastrophic. Neither is the case with the judicial authorities nor is it with judges such as Mr. Kyreev that he does not even want to talk about it. This is the case with our people who are suffering today. And I'd like to tell you that in the nine appeals courts of administration, where today we call the Chernobyl community, where the prosecutions of war children, Afghans and all the other lawsuits have accumulated for today, please consider 400 thousand pending cases and 603,000 pending cases on October 28th. And other than that, there's a pay situation for the assistants, for everyone else, for the smallest wage, 700-800 dollars. It's a tragic situation. It's not registered at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u103	Finish up, but be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u104	There is no money to be taken from there, there is nowhere else to be found, where to add, so that today the judicial authorities will be able to finish this year at one time. In fact, to protect the rights of our citizens properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u105	Thank you. Hanusztak, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u106	There's a lot of questions down here. So this is a special fund, this redistribution, you could have done different projects. We need to be very careful and considerate. A switch from the general to the special fund. Because the principles of the budget system say that there is a general fund principle. So all the money that comes in revenue, in the income part, should be redistributed not specifically in certain areas, because it's a temptation to move pieces forever, to get, but in order of the general fund. That's why I don't want the courts to get that privilege. Besides, I see there's a redistribution in the Ministry of Economics. The president said he's doing administrative reform, which should be followed by a downsizing. Well, you need to fund yourself within the apparatus that you have. Because it's not normal at all when we have, in addition to the draft law for 2012, the number of prosecutors increases from 16.5 to 18,000. It's not normal. We've got the machine back. You can't have a machine. We're running out of hardware costs. Where's the administrative reform, after all? Well, you don't have to fool people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u107	Yes, thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, speaking out completely right. At the same time, everyone understands, and Yuri Anatoliyovich said that the judicial system is overwhelmed by things that are not moving because they don't even have copies of envelopes, pens, or anything else. And it's not just words, it's someone who's dealing with this situation that knows it's true. And so it would be absolutely right if that part of the judicial congregation that has been increasing since November 1st to have this part of the judicial congregation sent to finance the courts. And in the 2011 budget, we're going to look at it and there's going to be a whole different situation. That's why I think we should support it. And Hanustak is absolutely right that we have to approach it in a complex way and predict it in advance. But it takes a long, long, long time to learn, to introduce Soviet five years, and then everything will be planned and everything will be clear. Yeah, I'm not saying. So, my dear colleagues, I'm proposing to a committee to vote on the adoption of a law amending the Ukrainian State Budget 2011 Act. [[on the judiciary and other matters]] [[Registration number 9296]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u108	First reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u109	In general. You made comments to Vladimir Mikhailovich. I didn't hear. [[13:17:05]] For 266 Copy that. Dear colleagues, we need to include in the agenda a draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. [[on the Financing of Mine Economic Development]] [[Bill 9383 registration number]] Please vote. [[13:17:42]] For 263 Dear colleagues, since we are currently considering the laws related to the budget, I propose that we consider it now. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:18:07]] For 263 Supported. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:18:26]] For 231 Supported. Reported to the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Pavlenko. Rybak, Deputy Minister of Finance. Please, Sergey Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, these changes to the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine have been developed to implement the President's Order on Optimization of the System of Central Executive Authorities with a view to ensuring a stable functioning and efficient use of the budget allocated to the central apparatus of the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. This bill is technical in terms of the fact that it does not affect the increase or decrease in the income of the state budget and places a redistribution within one of the main public expenditure managers. The expenditure increases by the same programme in general, I'm sorry, one by one, the same main executive within the two budget programmes of "application and scientific development" and "management, economic governance." The sum, it's also small, so let's say we support it, that's about 4 million dollars. We propose to support this bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u111	Thank you. Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u112	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! The committee considered the bill at its meeting. The position of the bill is balanced with regard to the State Budget indicators. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council supports the proposal made. It should be noted that the Supreme Council of October 6, 18 and 20 and today’s session have adopted a number of laws amending the State Budget Act on Income and Expenditures of the State Budget. So it's going to need to clarify the state budget's general indicators in addition to Bill 9383, in accordance with the changes adopted by law, in order to ensure budgetary balance. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the draft Law Ro State Budget 2011, 9383, as a result of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. Taking into account the proposals made in the budget committee's letter to the Supreme Council. And for the transcript, if the bill is adopted, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority, in the drafting of the law, should add to it the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications relating to the proposals of the High Council of Budget Committee. Please support our committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u113	Thank you. Shall we vote? No, it's not. Carpuk, please, Vladimir Karpuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u114	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". I want to talk about the principles of making decisions to change the state budget. Last year, in the past year, we proposed to increase the cost of the code of treatment for citizens abroad. These proposals were not supported. The bones are kept to a minimum. In the previous law, we have decided to increase expenditure to the Ministry of Health in this particular article by 550 000 for the extracurricular treatment of one prominent person, not to name the name Hero of Ukraine abroad. And it's a very complicated moral question for many, and for me, I think, for that person. Perhaps she did not know how to decide, since dozens of sick children are in line. It's mostly oncohematology, oncohematology, when you can't really heal a child within Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers has another February 7, 550 thousand undecided, I don't know how it allocates for this person's treatment, who could, in principle, raise these funds, or our sponsors, who are so many, most of them. 550 thousand -- these are sick children, it's hard to put on hold or at least a truly deserved person, or the life of that oncological child, who in no other way could have collected those funds in any other way. I don't think that's how people talk, they know there's a turn, they know, they expect. And when they do, they know that even the huge sums that are allocated to the public service budget, and they're also taking money out of the children's overseas treatment budget. That's why I don't think we should have Christian morality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u115	Thank you. But that's a slightly different question. I understand. Let's please support the committee's proposal, taking into account his thoughts. Because, really, when we make changes, there is a constant need to adjust the indicators so that everything is in line with the Budget Code. I put it to a vote: adopt the Act amending Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011, 9383. [[on the Financing of Mine Economic Development]] Please be supportive. [[13:24:37]] For 256 Thank you, the law has been passed. Here's the question: a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to stimulate investment in the domestic economy. [[Registration number 9341]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:25:08]] For 217 Supported. Reported the author of the legislative initiative, Alexander Andriyovich Kozub. Prepare Karakiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u116	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable national MPs, the bill to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code has been developed to resolve a number of issues that, as a result of their vague disclosure in the Ukrainian Tax Code, lead to misunderstandings between supervisory authorities and taxpayers, while certain rules have a negative impact on the financial situation of taxpayers and thus do not contribute to the increase of budget revenues. [[9341]] [[on the promotion of investment in the domestic economy]] Today, many projects are being implemented in the country involving private investors in the management of state - owned industrial enterprises by placing such public industrial objects in leases or concessions. In order to improve the financial performance of state-owned enterprises sold in concessions, the concessionaire assumes obligations under article 3 of the Act on concessions. At the same time, Ukraine’s Tax Code contains a legal gap, since it provides for the possibility of transferring liabilities to the investor for tax debt only in respect of state - owned leased enterprises. It is therefore necessary to provide for the concessionaire who has received public or municipal property to pay off his tax obligations. The gap reduces the investment attractiveness of the object of the concession. There is also a need to settle VAT on rent and concessional wages. Another problem that is proposed to be addressed in the bill is to increase the investment attractiveness of the domestic economy and to create favourable conditions for the creation of new productions, including. Loans defined with exchange rate differences from recalculation of transactions. I suggest we take it as a base. If taken as a basis in the first reading, prepare for the second reading by a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u117	Thank you. Karakai Yuri Vasilovich, head of the Committee on Finance, Banking and Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! All factions are always talking about raising social standards. Let's face it, they're impossible without a steady growth in the economy, and a steady growth in the economy is impossible without the inclusion of large investment volumes. Unfortunately, though, everyone is talking about social standards, but they're not. In our committee's view, this bill is an example of what can be kept in the hall, not by demagogies, but by every MP, of preparing bills that will to some extent or some extent improve the economy of our country. The author of the bill stopped at his position in detail. The committee considered the bill, suggested that it be accepted in the first reading, with a number of proposals for its improvement that would be taken into account in the second reading. At the same time, Adam Ivanovich, considering that there are changes to the Tax Code, and by the end of the year, the committee is also asking questions about his preparation for the second reading procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u119	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Besides Arjevetin, do others not insist? Please, Stanislav Arjevitin. And Suhi, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u120	Dear National Deputies! In fact, how to create certain preferences for foreign investments, but we should not forget about our Ukrainian realities. I'd like to say exclusively around the topic that's set up here, it's about currency fluctuations, it's a painful topic. You know, as a result of the exchange fluctuations of 4, from 5 bracelets to 8 first Ukrainians took, bought a dollar for 5, and then to pay back the loan, you have to buy a dollar for 8. The exchange rate difference was 180 billion dollars. It's hanging in the air on customers, on the banking system. This is the price of exchange rate differences. What is involved in this bill? The bill provides certain preferences for foreign investors, either for damages or for the profits of currency transactions quarterly in the Ukrainian accounting. I think that when it comes to standard sharing, these are unequal conditions for Ukrainian entrepreneurs and for foreign entrepreneurs. In order to avoid currency fluctuations, foreign investors need to explain that we have our own monetary unit -- the bracelet -- and please take your bracelets, and you will have no currency fluctuations. I think that's how you train investors, and then there'll be no currency fluctuations. The very text on currency fluctuations is so prescriptive that you can't read it clearly, and that's what the Science-Expert Office concluded. I think that the methodology for individual economic operators regarding the application of income or loss differences compared to other subjects is not correct. I don't think it's fair. Thus, it is good to have investments, but we must have equal entrepreneurship for all business subjects in Ukraine. That's why I won't. I haven't analyzed the whole bill, but with regard to this particular ingredient on exchange rate fluctuations, it's written improperly, wrongly and unfairly with regard to Ukrainian operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u121	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I'm brief. My colleague Arjevetin and I didn't agree on a solidarity speech, but in this case, I want to make a warning about the concept of the bill. First of all, it would have been great if this law had been earlier, maybe in 2005 there wouldn't have been so many basic sectors of the national economy when the fraudulent investors left us, because all the preferences of the foreign producer with foreign investment were overturned. I mean, first of all, Zaporozhye's car factory and 150 million dollars from Deu, which were just, you know, burned. If the preference for a domestic producer hadn't been overturned in 2005, we'd have a very different picture in our agriculture right now. We'd have modernized businesses and modernized, for example, mining and metallurgical industries. So I think we need to find some approaches to the second reading. bound up written legislative innovations in this project with the concept of supporting a domestic producer. Please, the domestic producer, foreign investment, and especially interesting is my proposal to release the tax on the added cost of the equipment that will be used to produce electricity on alternative sources of energy. This is what Ukraine needs, for example, today. So I support the proposal to involve the interests of a domestic producer in the body of this bill and to support it in the first reading. And to the second reading, we're going to prepare it in a very brief way, because this bill is waiting for our Ukrainian economy today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u123	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to encourage investment in the domestic economy. Registration number 9341. Please vote. [[13:33:23]] For 256 And there was a proposal for a profile committee to give them a mandate to prepare this bill for the second reading on a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:33:50]] For 251 Decision supported. For the next plenary week, please submit the bill to the second reading. We have a question: the draft Act amending article 306 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the alignment of the clauses]] Registration number 9351. Reportedly, he is both the subject and the committee head of the Committee on Legal Protection, Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz. Please, you have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u124	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Honourable People's Deputies, on October 6, 2011, was passed the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the Strengthening of Responsibility for the Illegal Circulation of Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors, Poisonous or Violent Substances or Poisoning or Violent Medical Devices and Drugs. But as a result of a technical error, the President had signed a law that did not fully respond to what had been voted in the Supreme Council. This led to the need for urgent changes to this law. After all, the penalty provided for in article 306 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code is more severe than the penalty provided for in part two of this article. Thus, the bill proposes to amend the second part of article 306 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code by replacing the words “from seven to twenty” with the words “from seven to twelve”. The Supreme Council’s Committee on Law Enforcement, which examined the bill, examined it. The committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council approve the bill. To adopt it as a foundation and generally as a law. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention. And please support the committee's decision and accept this bill as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u125	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Do you understand the situation? Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, when preparing the law for signature, did not see that instead of saying 12 they had written 20. This is the kind of conflict that has arisen, the measure of punishment. So I think it's absolutely right if we now support the proposal of a committee of profile and we're going to adopt this law as a whole because there's nothing to prepare here for the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll figure it out, Yuri Anatolyevich, we'll figure out who did it and how it was done. It was technical neglect. People were neglected. But we act wisely because we have seen and corrected. I therefore propose to vote the adoption of the Amendment Act to Article 306 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 9351. [[on the alignment of the clauses]] Please vote. [[13:37:30.]] For 262 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. [[on VAT "Odes port factory"]] Registration number 2209. There's a short cut. Please vote. [[13:38:02]] For 239. Supported. Please report to Marmazov Evgeny Vasilovich, author. Bondar's getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the draft law on the Odessa Port Facility was submitted three years ago and seven months ago. There have been major changes during this time. But the relevance of this problem has remained. The draft law was introduced, not by my own will, but by the decision of the Special Monitoring Commission for Privatization. Following the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers in 2008 to privatize the plant What the Odessa Portal Plant is, he often remembers here. This is a very high-tech cost-effective factory producing different chemical products, 99.6 per cent of the shares in the State. The plant is relatively large. It employs 3,000,800 workers. The factory is in good condition and huge money has been invested in the development of the plant. In addition, there is a facility in the factory to maintain the overload of chemical products not only in its own production but also in other Ukrainian and Russian enterprises. That is, if the plant is privatized, the new owner becomes a monopoly on the conservation and overload of chemical products with all the consequences. Next moment. That enterprises are environmentally hazardous, there are four large reservoirs of liquefied ammonia, some 120,000 tons. It's actually under the largest city, Odessa. Thus, a single IPF complex includes seaports, docks, ports, shores, which means that it includes the engineering infrastructure of the port system, the main ammiac conduit and others. Those objects that he agrees with.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u127	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u128	Holding is prohibited, therefore, to privatize. We therefore propose to include this enterprise in the list of non-privatizations, and if someone is to withdraw this plant, restructuring, separation of its own production and trans-shipment should be done separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u129	Thank you. Yeah, from the committee, yeah, from the Committee of the European Union, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The Committee considered the bill at its meeting on 5 April this year and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject it. That's why. According to information received by the Committee from the Cabinet of Ministers, which also recommends that the bill be rejected, the Odessa Port Facility has suffered losses over the past three years and more and more each year. In particular, for 2009, losses amounted to $2 million,444,000, and losses amounted to 87 million,169,000. [[I can't argue with you, I'm talking information from the Cabinet of Ministers.]] The value of the core funds is more than 50 per cent. Such a decision and such a proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u132	Sign up, settle down. Yes, please, Baldwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u133	I give the word to Mikhail Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u134	Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I think we should see for the purposes of privatization, especially the strategy and perspective of enterprise development, and clearly count on a few steps forward. And where an enterprise requires technical renewal, modernization, new technologies, we must link it to the capacity of the State to invest. If a State is able to invest, it is natural and thus to maintain the competitiveness of the enterprise in the market and in the long term, such an enterprise can operate in the public sector. [[invest]] And if we see that the capacity of a financial State is limited and the enterprise will lose markets in the medium term and the long term, to overwhelm the lost, always very difficult, then in such a situation it is necessary to let the enterprise go, to privatize, to invest in, invest in, and improve its effectiveness, competitiveness and long-term prospects. I think that by weighing all the pros and cons, the Government is proposing the most appropriate option from the strategic perspective of enterprise development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u136	And thank you. Eugene Kzarykov. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u137	Mikhail Vasiljevic was on time, although he was not prepared. And I want to let him know that it's an enterprise with the capacity to transport four million tons of ammonia, that is, it's profitable. And I'm an MP and I'm a deputy. I can confirm this to you now, but I'm running out of time. At the time, the country's main enemy wanted to privatize the enterprise, which is the final site of the Tolyatti Gorlovka-Odessa Ammiacco-line. And I'll say that if we privatize it, it'll be a robbery of the century after the collapse of the MLC. Why? Because, once again, we can ask our colleague, he is a former member of the Party of the Regions, and now the Governor, Edward Matwaychuk. You might ask the chief tax collector of the Odessa area of Mr. Chernobay, he worked long hours on Donbass in tax. This is a chicken that today carries golden eggs to the budget of the Odessa Region and Ukraine. Accordingly, the information that the funds are more than 55 per cent is not valid either. We were invited to work at this factory. And, by the way, I am surprised at the fact that our colleagues in the Odessa Party of Regions are also categorically opposed to privatization, because the budget of the Odessa Region will also be lost and the budget of Ukraine will be lost. And that's why I hope that there's probably some kind of technical malfunction here too. Yes, or committee, or our parliamentary colleagues, but once again, in 2006, I just remember the figure, 257 million was a net profit, in 2007 275, in 2009-311, and in 2010 they just had an affair, that is, there was a credit commitment and they said it was a loss. It's 5, so it's profitable with a factor of about 5-5.2. Therefore, it is not possible to sell the enterprise and, in no case, to privatize it. I suspect it's the actions of some gentleman with a family name on the letter "F." Well, if he takes that away, then we'll really lose the monopoly completely to markets and ammonia, and again, I emphasize a complicated relationship with the Russian Federation, because it's a base point for transporting Russian ammonia.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u138	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u139	Dear friends! Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to say I'm surprised that suddenly I've become a junkyard for Oedesh. I firmly claim that this is false data. I confirm that previous speakers, who know the situation in the Odessa region, and Marmazov, and Kzarykov, told the truth. I confirm that only technologically to minimize taxes, a certain procedure has been taken. But think about it, your honor, the issue of national security, the threat to the city that you're putting at stake. How do you get your tongue to say, when 20 kilometers from Odessa, there's this big atomic bomb from a million cities? I understand I'd like to make a gift for Furtash. I understand everything. I've called you the last name that's been on the line for the last six months. And that's why you can't do it. That is absolutely correct: There are about 5,000 workers, and the whole city is locked up. And the lead that goes between Tolyatti and Odessa, and the fact that an enterprise can pose a threat, and the cost of an ammonia pipeline that can't be sold to anyone, because if you sell a factory, then the ammonia pipeline will be in nowhere -- that's what the situation is! And then the state will give it just like that! And then you'll be, you know, I remember that when we considered the same question, a few years ago I got a phone call from Bishop Agafangel, deputy of the Odessa District Council. And he says, Has the Lord taken away his mind? That's why I'm going to the Party of Regions. Is it obvious, then, that the Lord has not taken your mind away from you?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u140	Grivkowski? Don't insist. Chaplain, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u141	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! You know, we, when we were looking at the faction's expert board, this bill, our fluctuation turned to just one question. Look, three or four basic questions that you can ask about this project. First. Environmental security. The other one. It's a budget. The local budget is certainly speaking. Third. There is a strategy where money will go after privatization. And the fourth. Is there any underlying motivation for this act of privatization since 2004. And we got the answers on all the questions. We don't need to privatize the Odessa Port Facility. If we want the city's budget to be properly budgeted today, if we want someone to be responsible for environmental security in the region. And if we want to really get a highly capitalized enterprise in the hands of the state. And finally, what I'm saying is that sometimes there's a hidden privatization or a purchase when other corporations that own markets want to clean it up. The Odessa Priportion Plant.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u142	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects that Are Not Privatized. [[on VAT "Odes port factory"]] [[Registration number 2209]] Please vote. [[13:50:09]] For-51 The offer is not supported. Overruled. We are considering: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. [[on VAT "Science Research Institute of Electromechanical Devices"]] [[Registration number 2217]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:50:49]] For 208 Supported. Marmazov Eugen Vasilovich, author of the initiative, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, it's also the bearded law. We brought it to China, by the way, the Party of the Regions four years ago. But if, according to Odessa's port here, there was something else that the fog was trying to leave, who was getting it, who was laying eyes, and we already know who would be given the Titan mines to, who would be given the Odessa porter. Here's another example. So we propose not to privatize the Electromechanical Research Institute. The Government is also putting it on privatization, here 96 per cent. 94.4 per cent of government property. But what is "institute"? If it's Odessa's porter. You'll think of it as a purely defensive institution, working on aviation, working on super-arms, and the factory has state secrets. So it's this factory. The institution is relatively small. I wonder why someone put their eyes on him? There's seven acres of land in Kiev. So I will tell you that if we go to privatize this plant, it will be a grave violation of the Law on the Privatization of the Holding, where it is clearly stated that enterprises producing weapons of all kinds for the Armed Forces and the BSS are not privatized. We therefore propose to include this institution in the list of enterprises not to be privatized. Who backed us? Think about it, she supported us, which means the Special Commission of the Supreme Council on Science and Education, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Defence and the Ministry of Defence. I'll read it to you, so I'll have my feedback and the B.B.I. on it. And everyone else. I'll read what the Ministry of Defense wrote. "This is how the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine is interested in the scientific development of the VAT of NDI and sees it as a promising performer of state defence." It's a clean defence facility. So we suggest we include it on the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the bill has also been considered by the Committee on Economic Policy. And the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the bill. And the reasons are about the same. I have already handed you, to the author, a written report by the Cabinet of Ministers on the losses of the Odessa Portal Plant. In this case, the same conclusion is available under the signature of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on the losses of the Institute for 2010 and on the weariness of the core funds. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine states that there is no possibility to load the company with orders. For this reason, it is recommended that the bill should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u146	Yeah, we'll talk about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u147	Sign up. Yes, please, Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u148	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT - "Fatherhood", Equality. Well, you know, it's kind of like we just have everything that really works on the state's external defense functions, it's destroying itself, it's specifically bankruptcy, it's like there's no order there, and so on. This is the essence of the work of today’s authorities, Yanukovich. First to fight the opposition, then to prove science, education to this country, and to ban Ukrainian language, and now we're on the defensive. Well, there's no such thing in the world that defense companies that carry government weights just destroy it. And under whom does this destroy? Again under the same oligarchs who now want to take away the premises, throw scientists out of there, and resolve exclusively their oligarchic issues. Of course, such a law must be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u149	Please, Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Hassuku Petra Petrovich, our colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u151	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the MP of Reform for the Future, stresses that the Scientific Research Institute of Electromechanical Devices is an enterprise of the defence and industrial complex, which is strategically important for the national security of the state. This enterprise is the only one in Ukraine that runs the entire post-Radians space to create a recording machine for the transmission of information. It has high scientific and technological potential and unique equipment that enables it to create high-tech, scientific products that allow the enterprise to take a decent place in the field of electronic and electronic engineering. It should also be pointed out that a large number of institution development is a state secret, and privatization will create preconditions for overdevelopment and deprive Ukraine of its competitiveness in the global arms market. In view of what has been said, the parliamentary group Reforms for the Future supports the legislative initiative to ban the privatization of the company "The Scientific Research Institute of Electrical Equipment" by adding it to the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u152	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u153	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! First of all, Mr. Chairman, to you. You see, we've resumed the session today, even though it was supposed to be "Variable" at 13 o'clock. There are no members available in the hall, and this is the law, and the Act prohibiting the privatization of the Odessa Port Facility is to be voted on another day. I invite you, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, to limit today's discussion of this bill to the postponement of voting, as well as to return to the vote at the Odessa Portal Plant for the next day, that is, the next plenary week. This is what we have to think of as the over-the-counter development that ensures Ukraine's competitiveness in the world arms market, and I'm going to remind you that we were the fourth in the world until recently. Although we were told, and the President was talking about what he wanted to introduce Ukraine in the twenties, we were already in this development fourth in the world, the veneration, the defense. And today you're offering one stroke of land that you need, but not as important as 7 hectares. Although this is also very expensive for all these methods of secrecy. There are unique equipment, unique people, unique workers, unless we understand it, unique technologies that we're going to lose. And there will never be anything again, because your minister of education is not worried about any PTU because they have not created any vocational schools. And now you want to free people and destroy a defence-efficient enterprise. That's why I'm asking you to postpone the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-04-m0.u154	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. The thing is, not only were they not eliminated, they were turned into higher education institutions, so we made them. Fedun, please. Don't insist. Question completed. I am voting for adoption on the basis of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized (for VAT, the Scientific Research Institute of Electromechanical Devices) (Registration No. 2217). Please vote. [[14:00:14]] For-72 Unfortunately, it's not supported. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 22, Fatherland is 4, our Ukraine has not voted. And Yuri Anatolyovich was adamant about what to do. Communists 25, Reforms for the Future 20. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm announcing that something didn't work for Yuri Anatolyovich. The People's Party didn't vote, the non-fractional party was 1. Dear colleagues! We will conclude this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council. I'm calling it closed. The next plenary week, we work according to the plans of the non-sessional hall, so please see you later.
