ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:49]] There were 371 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Biruk Lev Vasilovich, 65 years old. Please welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And Borisov Valery Dmitrovitch, welcome to Valery Dmitrovitch. [[Applause]] And we wish our colleagues success and good health. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 17 to 20 May 2011. Six plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, 109 issues of the agenda were discussed, 21 laws and 18 regulations were adopted, 20 bills were adopted and one draft decree was adopted, 11 bills were converted to the drafting of the law of the legislative initiative, one bill was returned to the committee for further consideration, 29 bills and 4 draft regulations were rejected, one law was rejected, 115 parliamentary requests were announced. Ladies and gentlemen, on May 30, 2011, the Central Election Commission registered Ukrainian national deputies elected on September 30, 2007, in a multi-mandatory national constituency that was included in the electoral list of the Party of the Regions: Pachezuk Sergija Nikonović, Baranova-Mohort Sergija Mikolaiovich. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine Pachesuk Sergey Nikonović is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u3	Welcome. The National Deputy of Ukraine Baranov-Mohort Sergey Mikolaiovich is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u4	I, Baranov-Mohort Sergey Mikolaiovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, welcome Sergey Mikolaiovich. Honorable national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions to make statements, messages, appeals, and so forth. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. People's Deputy Tishchenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Who will act? Ivan Kirilenko? Please. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u6	Honorable Predestination! The compatriots! Every day I hear ritual calls for understanding, harmony, and constructive work. We don't mind. Moreover, almost 120 draft laws have been prepared for this session by members of our faction, and almost all of them are aimed at addressing the extremely relevant problems of the country's life, its economy and society. And certainly we are interested in their consideration and acceptance, of course, as in the stable work of the Supreme Council, on one condition. Both our Parliament and all society really need peace and harmony. It takes a little. Release the political prisoners, stop the repression and persecution of Yulia Timoshenko. And to do that, you have to hear from each other. So listen. We firmly state that our political power and much of society are calm to see what is happening to the leaders of the opposition, especially Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenk, and Makarenko, Didenko, there will be no more dozens of other politicians and statesmen. Last week, the court decided to arrest Timoshenko, and everyone understands what that means. At any moment, as was the case with many of our comrades, a repressive machine will do its "black" thing. It's a huge responsibility. What's going on is on the parliamentary majority. It's with your silent consent and the vote in the premeditated automatic regime that passed the laws on the judiciary, the ousted institution of the national jury, the limited time limit on the matter, and a number of others. The system of justice in Ukraine is essentially destroyed. People of any rank, profession or faith have lost any opportunity to protect themselves. In fact, the court has ceased to be a just arbitrator for the resolution of social conflicts. It has been made a hand tool for the enjoyment of both political and business interests. If you call things your own names, then the so-called judicial reform eliminated an independent court and initiated the formation of a legislative base under political persecution by means of, more than ever, a cruel carnal repressive apparatus. What kind of democracy and human rights can we refer to? This is obvious, and not only in Ukraine but also in the democratic community of Europe and the whole world are talking about it. Justice in Ukraine is a disaster, this is what the President of the Transitional Democrats Bruce Jackson said today, assessing the absurdity of the charges brought by Yulia Timoshenko, is a demonstration of the punishment of opponents, and tomorrow it will touch every person who thinks otherwise, it is a way to go to a dangerous place. So our faction requires immediate hearing of the Attorney General in the session room and hearing clear answers to the main questions: On what grounds has the illegal criminal case against Julia Timoshenko been opened up, and as long as it has been openly abused by the investigators? And why are the opposition and the flock, who have been conscientiously carrying out their duties in accordance with the law, being held illegally in prison today? In addition, we have prepared and registered a bill to repeal the laws that led to this absurdity. With regard to the power of cancelling them, tender problems have been eliminated in this room, and the Law on Corruption and nothing has happened in the country until new laws have been adopted. We're convinced, and it's not just going to happen after the cancellation, it's not going to happen just bad, it's not going to happen bad, it's going to happen, it's going to happen, it's going to be civilized, we're going to write civilized, really, laws, we can work together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u7	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u8	Respectable colleagues, respected voters, hundreds of thousands of ordinary Ukrainian families in the summer and again face the most difficult challenge: where to send a child on health leave and where to take the money? During the twenty years of capitalist restoration and destruction of Ukraine's economic potential, a socially oriented system of children's recreation has also collapsed. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that 2,2,500 pioneer camps have been built in Soviet Ukraine, and virtually every school - age child has had the opportunity to recover in a children’s summer camp or sanatorium. And the 28-day shift cost about 30-40 rubles, of which 90 per cent were paid by trade unions, now parents have to lay out between two and four thousand bracelets for their regular parents, most of which, when wages are poor when there is no permanent work, there is no available luxury. The main reason for this critical situation is the lack of effective public policies aimed at creating a morally and physically healthy nation. That is why we, the Communists, insist on the adoption and implementation of the comprehensive State programme “Protection of Childhood”. Under such a programme, the State has an obligation to guarantee to every child not only the right but also the right to rest and to enjoy physical and spiritual development through the means of Gosbudget. To this end, we propose a conceptual solution in this programme to the transfer of all children's institutions, pioneer camps, schoolrooms, all to public property and state control. Their funding must be provided to those who have received, as integrated public complexes, property complexes through their profits, and thus the primary task of ensuring the financing of social programmes. Methodological guidance for the Ministry of Education. The artistic activity and technical arts, sports sections for school-age children must be free of charge regardless of the form of ownership. One of the parts of the “Protection of Childhood” programme proposed by the Compartium can now be implemented under the auspices of the Communists of the All-Ukrainian organization “Women of Ukraine”. “Pregnant women for the future of children of Ukraine” with active support from the Ministry of Education for the project “Talents of a Multi-Children Family”. This year alone, this project free of charge, in Artec, was rested and healed, showing its talents to 800 children from Ukraine. Dear colleagues, some sociological studies have been conducted among these children. I want to inform you, 70 percent of these 800 people saw the sea for the first time, and 70 percent of them first boarded the train. This is the sentence of the power that exists in Ukraine for 20 years. I am also convinced that, with regard to the Children's Protection Programme, we must today address all the Supreme Council to the Attorney-General's Office and investigate where funds have been allocated for the hospital of the future. Why millions of people, Ukrainian citizens, assisted in the implementation of the project, ripped off their bloodmarks and robbed the people of Ukraine. I believe that the Procurator's Office should investigate and criminalize those so-called Ukrainian citizens who have violated the health and health of our children. I believe that today is a very serious time for the development of a programme as a national, national and national one is the restoration and development of public transport. Today, we must deal with everything that is happening in the development of the infrastructure of cities and settlements and thus determine our clear position to assist our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u9	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next is who is Yuri Litwin, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u10	Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! For days I had to be present at the trial of Yuri Lucenk. I was impressed when the judge went to consult with himself. More specifically, get instructions from above. The decision was predetermined. Although the sick, weakened after the monthly famine of Yuri Lucenka had to be released from custody because his case had been closed, and Lucenko's move was not affected and could not influence. In ancient Rome it was said that the judge spoke the law with his mouth. In the cave court, the judge spoke with his mouth about lawlessness. It's not just my opinion. A well - known Danish expert and former prosecutor, Michael Lingbo, prepared a report by the Danish Helsinki Committee on Human Rights regarding the cases of Yuri Lucenka and Eugene Korniychuk. The main findings of a European expert: "there was no reason to take them into custody." Justice in Ukraine is selective and therefore unfair, and on this basis it is concluded that the Council of Europe's monitoring in Ukraine is unearmarked. In general, the main focus of Europe on Ukraine is, consider, criminal persecution of opposition. Last example, a negative reaction to the attempt to arrest Timoshenko. With a direct test, if the situation does not change, Ukraine will have no European prospects. What don't we get? The loud words about the reform of the judicial system came out in the adoption of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which strengthened the full control of the judicial system of power. Any person in Ukraine is wrong in front of a judicial car, Europe has repeatedly demanded genuine reform. The first step, in my opinion and many politicians and experts, should be to bring the jury to justice. Unlike professional judges, they will not be appointed either by the President or by Parliament. The jury will be elected by the people, in direct elections, and they will determine whether the defendant is guilty or not, only after that will the judge render judgment. The right of the direct participation of the people in justice through the jury is enshrined in articles 124, 127 and 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Over the decades and centuries, the jury system has proved effective in the United States, Britain, Canada, Switzerland, France, and many other civilized nations. If a panel of jurors were to consider a change in the precautionary action of Lucenk, no calls from the top would have made her see the nonexistent exodus of the debilitated person from the investigation. Representatives of the government say: Lucenka can't judge a jury, he's in the Constitution, and there's no law about him. So let's immediately adopt the law, this is the hope of justice for many millions of our citizens. Two bills prepared by our colleagues Hennadi Moskal and Sergey Vlasenko were submitted to the Supreme Council in March, and Bill No. 8253 was called "The Jury Court", the second 8254 "On Appropriate Changes to Criminal Procedural Legislation". Let's finally bring the jury's trial in accordance with the Constitution, and it will be a reliable safeguard against the decision-making of Ukraine in front of the entire civilized world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u11	Yuri Litwin, faction of the People's Party. Alexander Pecklusenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u12	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, I would like to draw your attention once again to a village that we all poetically call "the cradle of the Ukrainian people," from which most of us have come out, on which we have high hopes and for which unfortunately we are doing less than we could. Everything changes so quickly that it is simply impossible to accept the long-term development programme of the APC. Each year, strategic development papers, agro-industrial development documents for the next five years, are adopted in the countries. Most of these programs rely on the conceptual principles of public agrarian policy in line with the current emphasis on socio-economic factors and the natural climate conditions of each region. As if laws, regulations, regulatory acts are not uncommon, as if the most important factors are taken into account, but Ukrainian agriculture is far from the individual sector and the APC survives annually, not because of it, but despite it. It is known that no society can function normally if it does not have a highly developed agricultural sector and enough food to provide the population. To get out of a crisis situation in an agribusiness complex, the authorities must recognize the village and agriculture as a priority for their activities. In addition, the role of the State is to create conditions that ensure a level playing field for all agrarians. Despite the fact that about 40 percent of the countries in Ukraine are black, Ukraine’s agriculture today is not a priority for investor and state funding. The Prime Minister of Ukraine is talking about modernizing the agro-industrial complex, he admitted that Ukraine does not provide itself with food. This indicates that the acuteity of the problem facing our agrarian complex has taken on unprecedented forms and has become a threat to our safety and has been marked by a prime minister. I want to point out that this is not the first time that we have heard these words. Each new authority claims that we need to modernize the agro-industrial complex urgently. Regrettably, the following words did not go right, and the APC is still in a terrible state. If it were not for our peasants ’ efficiency and optimism, our faith in the future might no longer be in Ukrainian flesh, native wheat, and milk. The country before the gathering campaign must be prepared for it. The 2011 state budget provides significant funds to support Ukraine’s APC. Where is the money? The numerous calls made by the agrarians of the various areas testify to the state’s indifference to the financial support and failure to pay for the sector’s programs. Thus, for example, the Agrarians of the Poznan Region of Kirovograd write: "It is the end of May month, but the APC program from the budget did not receive a penny. In just four months, because of the lack of funding from the economy's budget, 780,000 dollars were not available. The financial support of APC enterprises has not been implemented through the credit-scheduling mechanism. The amount of compensation for January/April of this year is 311,000. There is an area on the verge of survival of the nation’s total meat farming — about 500 farms, including 75 tribes. factories and 107 poems. Reproductives. 30 million dollars earmarked to support the beef industry in the current year have not been funded, and this can lead to the cutting of a unique head and the existence of a sector as such.".. That's why I'm turning from the faction of the People's Party to the Prime Minister. Mikola Janović, gather the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and the Ministry of Finance to consider the problem. Adjust the funding of all the programs foreseen by the schedule and adjust the costs in June and July of the current year, not in the IT quarter. With this attitude toward the agrarian complex, we will lose power without rebirth. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u13	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Taras Cnerwell will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u14	Dear President, distinguished voters! The events that are taking place in the world today give new evidence that all of us have come to live in a very difficult time. And as the President made clear in his address to the CHR, there is no alternative to reform in Ukraine. Reforms are difficult to deal with, and there are a number of challenges. But we have chosen this path and will do all the things we have set out to do. Unfortunately, the word “reform” in Ukraine has recently been associated with the knowledge of many citizens as a strengthening of the fiscal function of the State. That is not the objective of our reforms. Unfortunately, we, most of us, have not yet been able to fully inform people that the main thing in today's reforms is a set of measures aimed at a system of enabling conditions for production and business. Our team is clearly aware that without the support of the reforms announced by President Yanukovic, the majority of the population cannot actually improve the economic and social situation in the country. This support requires collective action by the authorities and civil society as a whole. It is dialogue and compromise that the efforts of the Party of the Regions in Parliament are now being pursued. For the first time in 20 years in Parliament, opposition has become the norm for real instruments of influence and influence. Each Wednesday of the plenary provides an opportunity for opposition factions to demonstrate their intellectual, political and legislative potential. The opposition is also given another sessional day, Friday, when the Government is almost entirely on the carpet in Parliament and is ready to develop tactics and strategies with the opposition. To the extent that the opposition has been able to make good use of almost 40 per cent of the sessional time allocated to it, no one will appreciate our voters better. The fact that most are willing to support all the actual constructive bills by the opposition is evidenced by the fact that only during the eighth session did the President of the country sign 13 laws introduced by the members of the BUT faction, 8 of which are the authors of our colleagues of the NNU-NS faction. Almost two dozen bills were drafted by the opposition already adopted on first reading. These are the first examples of collective, responsible work that has already worked. Today, our country is recovering from a catastrophic fall in GDP in 2009. For the first time in 4 months 2011, economic growth exceeded 5 per cent in recent years. Industry has increased by 10, agriculture by 4. In five months, nearly 4 billion more will be raised to the Treasury than planned. We expect a significant overrun of the budget following the first half of the year. Ukraine has every opportunity to end 2011 with a deficit-free budget. The income of the Pension Fund increases by 1 billion grevens each month. On the basis of all these indicators, the President of the country has entrusted the authorities with the task of re-implementing the budget to raise wages and pensions from the second half of the year, and this will be done. In conclusion, I would like to say that the faction of the regions is ready to cooperate, but it warns all lovers to turn parliament into a pre-election platform, and microphones into a tool of lies and politics, such a scenario in our Parliament today. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u15	Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies. The MP's Reform for the Future authorized me to speak, not with an open political statement, not with an open election pianist, but with a theme that applies to each of us. This is legislation, this is what we were elected to Parliament for. We want to sharpen the question, focus on three questions. The first is related to a very serious problem of corruption. We have adopted adequate legislation, we have adopted legislation to prevent corruption. And in our time, we took a step that was very well approved both inside the country and abroad, a step towards overcoming the solicitation mafia when the first basics of public procurement legislation were adopted. Unfortunately, last week, by a minimum of 229 votes, changes to these laws were voted, according to which the actual process of purchasing is once again closed, re-examined under the legislative field, corresponding regulation of entire large spheres that create excellent conditions for corruption. The MP Group on Reforms for the Future asks the President not to sign a bill that has just been adopted to amend some of Ukraine's laws on public procurement. Returning it with observations, vetoing it and contributing to the development of a truly adequate law that would not allow corruption to be restored in this sensitive sphere. The next direction that is particularly annoying today is pension reform. There is much to be said about it. There's a lot of political noise going on around it. It is followed by major problems that need to be laid down in clear laws. To break down the policies to remove the positions that we have actually tied ourselves to the Memorandum of Understanding with the International Monetary Fund, our faction proposes that we approach these commitments in a good way, constructively, in order to increase the retirement age. And do not impose a mandatory obligation on Ukrainian citizens to raise their pension age. Introduce a soft standard according to which a citizen who wants to retire early gets that right. But his pension will not reach the extent that he could have gained if he worked on those standards, up to the age barrier that will be defined in the law. That's 60 and 65 years. Then each citizen will be able to determine for himself the age at which he wants to retire, the amount of pension he wants. And as a parliament instead of dealing with politics on this issue, we will be able to go back to very serious, very difficult but technical, rather than political, issues about the formation of the pension system in Ukraine. And the last bill that I want to highlight on behalf of our MP group is registered for today's week to include in agenda number 8462 specific features of management in the defence complex. We are interested in ensuring that the direction of the defence industry, which is a priority in Ukraine, is properly organized. We don't mind creating a structure that could repeat the former Soviet Union's Ministry of Defense industriality rule. But the bill is more like a pre-privatization project, in our view. So we will vote in favour of this bill for inclusion in the agenda, and then we will call on everyone to vote on it to be put to work. In all other things, our MPs call upon all the members of the Supreme Council to work constructively and in the sense that there will be no general printing of laws for which it will then be shameful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! The factions are perfect. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate letters and assignments, based on the suggestions made during the presentations by authorized factions. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the issue of child recovery, taking into account the circumstances in which we had parliamentary hearings on this issue, we have accepted appropriate recommendations. And I think that the Cabinet of Ministers should provide the Supreme Council of Ukraine with comprehensive information on how children will be healed during summer vacations, but that this issue was the subject of a special discussion at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting in Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, during the Conciliation Council meeting yesterday, on Monday, and today, during the Conciliation Council meeting with faction leaders, were discussed the proposal of the "BUT – "Fatherhood" faction on the information of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office regarding criminal cases that were violated against former Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko. And we've agreed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be offered an appropriate draft decree, which we have to vote in order for this issue to be practically considered tomorrow in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we've reached an agreement on what we need to find understanding, compromise to make the Supreme Council of Ukraine work and so that any issues that have social resonance are discussed in an open regime. And we've actually reached an agreement. At the same time, two factions are now calling for a recess. Although once again I want to say that we have come to an understanding on this point. So, honourable colleagues, in fulfilling the requirements of the Rules, I will now announce a recess, but I am addressing all faction leaders, let's not overwhelm each other, because then no decision will be taken. I was ready to put this decision to a vote, and we would get it for 350 votes. So given that you're not compromising and you're demanding a break, I suggest you give 15 minutes for a break. Enough? And the faction leaders, please gather in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Break until 10 o'clock 45 minutes, at 45 we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of two factions, I remind you that this is the Faction BUT, the Fatherland, and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", we had a recess to hold consultations at the level of the leaders of the MPs. First, I suggest that the initiators of this break take the floor. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, you'll be speaking, right? Please. And then we'll keep moving.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! I ask you to hear the faction's position so that everyone understands, and the media, and the MPs, and the society. In a statement by the faction that the faction had entrusted me to speak, we stressed that in the country today there are widespread political repressions against the leaders of the opposition and people who have taken a civil stand in solving some or other of the state issues of their time. And we requested from this rostrum information from the highest official of the Attorney-General's Office, the Attorney-General, because it is with the Attorney-General that the Supreme Council has a relationship, at least from what it does for appointment. So we would like not only to listen to the first person’s personal information but to hear perfectly clear, clear, clear answers. Unfortunately, from this rostrum when we invite the first person, and not the first person comes, there's always the opportunity to send myself away to what I don't make, I don't fully own the situation. We wouldn't want to hear the same thing we've heard over and over again. So once again, I go to the Supreme Council Hall, and I go to my colleagues. Today it applies to one another, tomorrow it will apply to another. We ask for a resolution in which we invite the first person to the hall to get clear solid, convincing, clear answers to the questions that the room will ask, which has now set up society and the situation that is in the state today. The World Society has already given an assessment of this situation – it is not democracy, at least. Please support us, with understanding. And once again, today is about one another, tomorrow will be about the other. Let's not create a precedent, just listen to someone here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, before I inform you about, let's say, not the full compromise that we made at the Conciliation Council meeting, I'm going to make an announcement about joining the faction of new deputies, so that they can vote in factions. Announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of Ukrainian national deputies Baranova-Mohort Sergey Mikolaiovich and Pachesukov Sergey Nikonović into the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, during the session of the Conciliation Council, we discussed the final proposal from the "BUT" faction, "Fatherland," and I don't see any discrepancies with the compromise we were trying to achieve. This is about the fact that virtually all factions have agreed to adopt a decree stating that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will hear information from the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office about criminal cases against former Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, on June 1st. And then, I think it's up to the Attorney General's Office to speak on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, with regard to the personification proposed in the draft decrees, I have read out the relevant provisions of the Rules that if you follow the way proposed, you should first invite written information from the Attorney General's Office. [[Article 240]] When the national deputies receive this written information and get to know it, then the Supreme Council, as recorded in article 240, paragraph two, may decide to include the matter in the order of the day and its consideration, that is, the consideration of the information. Thus, a more simplified approach was proposed, taking into account the sound, wickedness, and relevance of the issue. So, dear colleagues, I'd like to take this compromise and make the right decision. Because it's not going to be clear what we agreed on or why we don't have any more practical action, and then life will show us how we can act depending on how much a faction or another faction satisfies, whether it's a member of the committee they get here in the sessional room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What's more, we've agreed on what's going to vote, practically, the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, I think it's also a sign. So, with this in mind, your distinguished colleagues, please note, invite your deputies to the session room so that everyone can make their own decisions. I'm going to put a motion for adoption on the basis of a draft ruling. I'm drafting it orally now, and then, if the Supreme Council supports it, it will be written, so that tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider, at 10 a.m., 30 minutes in plenary: information from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on criminal cases against former Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko. I'll bet you a vote on the adoption of the draft regulation as a basis. And the decision takes effect from the day it was adopted, from the moment it was adopted. [[11:00:10]] For 346 I was wrong about four voices, dear colleagues. We accepted it as a foundation. Now, as we agreed, I am voting on the proposal, paragraph two: to offer information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Attorney General of Ukraine. Please be sure. [[11:00:44]] For 122 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: Region Party 4, "BUT – Fatherland" – 76, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 39, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, "The People's Party" – 0, non-factional – 3. I now place my vote on the motion for a draft ruling as a whole. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:01:16]] For 251 I'll take the order. By factions, please: Region Party – 185, "BUT – Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 14, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, "The People's Party" – 20, non-fractional – 7. So tomorrow at 10 o'clock, 30 minutes, we're going to be looking at this question. [[B in m in s a l in]] After a minute? Please, from MPs and factions. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense," who will speak? You don't? Please, "BUT is Fatherland." No, no, a minute. It's not passed here, you have your moment here. Please. Who's it gonna be? Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u21	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction has made a unanimous decision, in which case if the room doesn't support us, that means the question is going down on the brakes, it's tomorrow, so there's going to be another release tomorrow, it's going to be thrown over, it's said, the page and the road map are going on, people are going to stay in jail, the persecution is going on. We strongly disagree with this; we will insist on our proposal. The hall was determined to have information tomorrow, but by evening there is time. We're going to ask our colleagues, we're going to insist, we're going to initiate the negotiation process again, so that tomorrow we don't just have information, but after the information, the decision. Political prisoners, no! Persecution is no! Repressions, no! We're leaving the hall as a sign of protest.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, if a draft decision is introduced as a result of the consideration of the information, it is likely to be considered. Therefore, please prepare the relevant draft regulations in accordance with the order and procedure established by the Rules. Anybody else need a minute? None. Let us now consider the issues scheduled for Tuesday, May 31. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the ratification of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. Registration number 8467, please vote. [[11:04:14]] For 254 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the merger of joint owners of a multi-family house. [[8474]] Please vote. [[11:04:46]] For 229 Decision taken. I would like to place a motion for inclusion in the agenda of the bill on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[8191]] Please vote. [[11:05:14]] For 258. Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Land and Forest to include it in the agenda, 8489. Please vote. [[11:05:44]] For 254 Decision taken. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. [[on activities in adjacent markets]] Registration number 8358, for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:06:18]] For 257 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda the draft Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. 8531. Please vote. [[11:06:47]] For 259. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. [[on the execution of a military obligation]] Registration number 8362. Please vote. [[11:07:17]] For 254 Decision taken. I'm voting on a proposal to include in the agenda a draft law on the characteristics of the management of public property in the defence and industrial complex. Registration number 8462. Please vote. [[11:07:47]] For 256 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the rights of persons with disabilities (registration number 8315). Please vote. [[11:08:15]] For 249 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of social services. [[Registration number 8319]] Please vote. [[11:08:44]] For 258. Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 290 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[about the donor information]] [[Registration number 8318]] Please vote. [[11:09:14]] For 260 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. [[concerning State export control]] [[Registration number 8488]] Please vote. [[11:09:47]] For 260 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. [[on the reconfiguration of means of transport]] [[Registration number 8359]] Please vote. [[11:10:14]] For 255 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on State Customs. [[on rates for the conduct of State registration of immovable property rights]] [[8296]] Please vote. [[11:10:47]] For 233 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on advertising in the securities market. [[8297]] Please vote. [[11:11:15]] For 257 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Bookstore in Ukraine. [[concerning the purchase of printing paper]] [[Registration number 8363]] Please vote. [[11:11:46]] For-82 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[on air conditioners' import duty rates]] [[Registration number 8452]] Please vote. [[11:12:19]] For 252 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine. [[on taxation of CHEESE security-provided funds]] [[Registration number 8473]] Please vote. [[11:12:49]] For 256 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities]] [[Registration numbers 8521, 8521-1, 8521-2]] Please vote. [[11:13:32]] For 248 Decision taken. A vote is taken on the proposal to include the daily draft Law on Reform in the Winnicki, Dnipropetrovski, Donetsk oblasts and M. Kiev Health Care Systems. [[Registration number 8533]] Please vote. [[11:14:03]] For 197 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Change in the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law. [[on improving the legal base]] [[Registration number 8566]] Please vote. [[11:14:33]] For 222 The decision is not taken. I would like to place a motion for inclusion in the agenda of the Anti-Trafficking Act. [[Registration number 8469]] Please vote. [[11:15:02]] For-72 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8545]] Please vote. [[11:15:32]] For the 250. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on State guarantees for the restoration of citizens'savings. [[Registration number 8228]] [[11:16:03]] For-35 The decision is not taken. We'll be done in a minute. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on the Single Customs Tariff. [[on the exemption from payment of goods for the construction and equipping of airports that are subjects of the championship]] [[Registration number 8062]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u23	There the authors asked to postpone the consideration of the bill. [[11:16:43]] For-188. Well, it's over. We'll be done in a minute. Eighty-two-two turned it off, right? Not supported, to be exact. Next. Not included in the agenda. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 17-1 of the Law on Electricity on Guaranteeing the Succession of Commitments. Please vote. [[11:17:28]] For 247 Decision taken. And I now put to the vote the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. [[on the provision of pharmaceuticals for medical and scientific research]] [[8175]] [[11:18:04]] For 251 Decision taken. So, dear colleagues, we voted on proposals for inclusion in the agenda. Not all of them received support. I'm asking the factions now, if there's a wish, one minute from this point on. Please, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u24	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Yesterday, the Contingent Council did not refuse to consider the two projects that we had proposed and were reflected in the draft so far for inclusion in the agenda. This is Project 8149, which provides responsibility for the promotion of Nazism and fascism in Ukraine. And this is Project 8150, which is responsible for the abuse of the memory of Soviet liberators. This is on two projects, and it is not clear why yesterday, on the Contingent Council, it was not said that they had been withdrawn. And Project 8062. One that is relevant for the preparation of Ukraine for the Euro-2012. The position of our faction is determined by what we require in this case the specific groups of goods or products that are required for these objects. So there won't be any speculation. Why am I talking about this? There are approved projects under construction. There's a specification of the equipment you need. So let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u25	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u26	That's why we're proposing. Prepare concrete proposals. The faction will necessarily vote for the final part of the European Football Championship in 2012. The faction will vote. But we already have experience when a few years ago, at the Ukrainian Stadium, we were also asked to remove all of these, certain facilities to be introduced and then transported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! With respect to Bill 8062, this is about the only customs tariff. [[on the exemption from payment of goods for the construction and equipping of airports that are subjects of the championship]] We talked about the last time, and I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine again, so let's do the decryption, which are the specifics, which items, equipment, should be imported for the Euro-2012. As far as Bill 8149, 8150 is concerned, I remind you, honourable national deputies, that there are alternative bills before these bills. And during the session of the Conciliation Council, there was a proposal not to get passionate, especially in view of the approaching date of the 70th anniversary of the Second Great Homeland War, to postpone consideration of these issues, because there are alternatives and this will be a resistance in the session room. If you insist, I'll re-examine the factions, and then we'll put the alternatives together tomorrow. Because there's an alternative to opposition. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, we didn't include anything, it was the Conciliation Council. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, Peter Mikolaiovich, I said, together with the alternative bills, we'll put a proposal for inclusion in the agenda. Why don't we set up a meeting tonight? [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u29	No, it's over. Ephraim, please. Dear colleagues, we have a deal in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to ask Petra Nikolaevich for Bill 8012. We have taken your point of view by code, and this bill has been very carefully and scrupulously considered in the committee of the Homutinnik. As far as we were informed by the representatives of the Committee, they took into account all the comments that had been made, and there was an appropriate list, including the codes that existed. I would ask Vladimir Mihajlovich, if our views are not convincing, to present them to the Committee, they will confirm that the work has been done. We would like to revert to the issue of inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, please don't insist on joining the agenda right now. Let's have Vitalia Hometics look at it, work on it. I'll say otherwise: there are no exceptions. We'll look at it, it'll work, then we'll go back to the question. We are now setting a bad example for the other part of the hall, which will constantly require a vote on the matter and discuss it. So let us work on these questions, including health care, clarification. I'm sorry, there's a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there's nothing I can do. And let's act on the Rules. Dear colleagues, we have not yet considered one question: the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Decision on Measures in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, marking the 20th anniversary of the declaration of independence of Ukraine. This question was brought to your attention, we considered it, and a draft decision was put in place. I would ask that we include him in the agenda so that the committee prepares for consideration. This is registration number 8581. Please vote. [[11:23:38]] For 248 Decision taken. I ask once again about Bills 8149, 8150 plus alternatives, let them pass, we'll consider them as soon as they're put into the agenda. Dear colleagues, once again, under the Rules, I cannot put the bill to the vote. Tomorrow I'll only do what I have to do to put another part of the room to the vote that goes into the session room. Do you understand what's going to happen? Let's move on, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, we are considering: a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of excessive government regulation in the field of road transport. [[Registration number 8397]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:24:56]] For the 220. Supported. Reported by President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich. This is the President's bill. Please. And be prepared by the Committee of Olives.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u33	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine introduced a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to eliminate excessive government regulation in the field of road transport. The purpose of the bill is to simplify the procedure for carrying out a mandatory technical review of transport equipment, to eliminate the corruption mechanisms involved in this area, to eliminate inefficient and excessive regulatory procedures, to regulate the relationship between State inspectors and drivers on the road. A series of money that is approaching our situation in Europe, proposed by the President of Ukraine, and a technical review of those cars that are privately owned, while maintaining a car traffic control system. This is a progressive bill that our voters are waiting for. I hope, fellow honourable colleagues, that we will now, without dividing our hall into opposition, and most of us will support this bill on a basis, work out, and by the end of this session, we will adopt the law as a whole, so that our electorate will receive a gift from us by summer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u34	Yes, thank you, Yuri Romanovich. Have a seat, please. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Olijnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u35	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! A committee on law enforcement is prepared for consideration by the President of Ukraine on a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of excessive government regulation in the field of road transport. As you have heard from the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the People's Deputies of Miroshnicken, a bill submitted for the purpose of eliminating excessive government regulation in the field of road transport, which foresees changes to the laws of Ukraine: "For the State Movement", "For the Automobile Transport", "For the Police", "For the Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Responsibilities of Owners of Ground Transport Means", "For Insurance", and the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences. In particular, the mandatory technical review for light vehicles not used for commercial purposes is being abolished; the procedure for mandatory technical controls for other vehicles is being significantly simplified; the State inspection of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is being removed from carrying out mandatory technical controls on vehicles and these powers are being passed on to operators; the requirements for mandatory presence in the driver of a road ticket and notarized confidence in the control of the means of transport are being waived. After reviewing the bill, the committee notes that the proposed changes are very important and necessary, and individual positions can be further developed when preparing it for consideration in the second reading. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, who wants to participate in the discussion, please sign in. Please, Kravchenko Mikola, Communist faction. Follow him, Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u37	The law is controversial, very complex, and it plays, frankly, on the one hand, towards the GAI, strengthening their functions. On the other hand, the attractiveness of the law is that the main thing is people and 8.5,000 carists. Millions of motorists are waiting today for the law to appear and the technical inspection to be lifted. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the technical examination, you know, the most complicated procedure: travel, bribes and so on and so forth. Therefore, a faction of communists, given this situation, given that I, as President of the All-U.S. Union for the Protection of Drivers, received a mass of letters requesting support, despite the contradiction of the law, the faction of Communists decided this morning: to vote in the first reading. But we have serious comments on the stations that will continue to inspect those vehicles that are required to pass. These are questions of accreditation, ultimately the requirement of international organizations and the European Union to be bound by the accreditation of these maintenance stations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u38	Yes, please, Taras Blackwall, the Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u39	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" group unanimously supports the adoption of this law in the first reading, because we all know very well how corrupt and ineffective the mechanism of technical review of the private transport of citizens has been. In fact, in most cases it was not carried out at all, there were struggles for help, there were struggles for the issue of this technology card. A real test of the car’s condition was not carried out during the process, but very often under the technical conditions and could not be carried out. That is, this law removes the openly corrupt mechanism, while preserving the possibility of faith. not an opportunity, but a duty to control those technical means of transport that perform commercial functions, that is, a gold medium that we support. The only thing we're going to insist on the second reading is that under the State Auto-Inspection, it's possible to test the means of transport in accordance with the technical rules. Because if you clearly read this bill in the form that it is, it might be understood that even if you just stopped on the road, seeing an open violation of the technical condition, well, let's say at night, there's no light left, which is an absolutely critical emergency situation. The militiaman will have his hands tied and will not normally be able to ban any further use of this vehicle. So this will be our addition to the second reading. In our first reading, we clearly support his acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u40	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u41	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Of course, this law should be supported in the first reading for the following reasons. You know that a large part of our citizens every year every year are always so impressed that they voluntarily pay the necessary, so to speak, data when reviewing the technical state of the car itself or during the technical condition of the DAI organs. In fact, most of these cars do not come for technical inspection, but they do so voluntarily. Because there is no other way out, because if the driver does not have a technical voucher, the appropriate state - owned car inspection has the right to stop the car and to draw up a protocol or restrict the right to use cars accordingly. And this is what's being done, this is, in the first place, a step in behalf of citizens, in favour of drivers who use cars. Second, a letter. There's no such thing as a "traffic letter" anywhere in the world if it's a car or a commercial car or a private car. What a car. A travel letter is needed, which requires a government inspection. people who use cars in their duties or in their business activities? Of course, he directs himself what he needs to do, where he goes, which route and so on, and so on. This is certainly a step in behalf of these citizens. Now in terms of technical inspection. During the second hearing, I think that experts, as well as other organizations that are interested, public organizations that care about this type of activity should write and offer suggestions on how to alleviate the process itself, on the one hand, and on the other hand on how to ensure the technical situation in such a way that there are no road accidents that will affect the health and life of our population. Because you know that statistics tell us that unfortunately, the tragic experiences in the country don't go down, they go up, and sometimes, or much of them, they happen because of the technical condition. And here we have to find a compromise like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u42	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u43	How to become the citizens of the world, in order to ensure that their transport is provided with technical means, in a viable way, so that there are no tragic consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u44	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. Indeed, a rather interesting initiative by the President of Ukraine is to move away from the situation that affects the interests of millions and millions of people. At the same time, when preparing for the second reading, we will need to be careful to see whether we will not make a nuisance again to the extent that we are punished for violating certain rules of road traffic. Because this bill is about not only cancelling the technical review, but also increasing the responsibility for violating the traffic rules. Even though each of us understands, even though we don't care about cars, that we have to be tougher on the road, because the tragedy is on the road, you know. We have tens of thousands a year. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of excessive government regulation in the field of road transport. [[Registration number 8397]] Please vote. [[11:36:46]] For 253 The Law was adopted in the first reading. We are considering a draft Act amending article 151 of the Ukrainian Land Code to simplify the granting of land for the needs associated with the use of nadra. [[Registration number 8209]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:37:26]] For the 220. Supported. Report to the First Deputy Head of the State Land Agency, Kadomski Artem Markovich, two minutes, please. From the committee, Valérie Bevanko, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u45	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You will be presented with a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[Simplifying the granting of land for needs related to the use of nadras]] The bill was designed by the State to carry out the tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine with regard to the introduction of a simplified procedure for the provision of land for the needs associated with the use of nadram according to the special permits or mining wastes received. In fact, we are doubling the land collection process to use the nadrama in cases where individuals who are given land are already given special permits or mining resources. In such cases, we suggest that the location of the objects be agreed upon. The bill has some observations, proposals from the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, we believe that they can be developed for second reading, please support as a basis in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u46	Thank you. Deputy Head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Valérie Fedorovich Bevanzenko, please have the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations at its meeting recommended that the Supreme Council adopt a bill as a basis, but it should also be noted that the need to agree on the location of the object is directly foreseen by article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Disposal of Land and Other Real Estate Objects, which includes placements in private property, for social purposes or for reasons of social necessity, and when the bill is adopted, the latter would be contrary to it. However, making changes to that law in the process of redrafting the bill for second reading is not in line with the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. The same applies to non-compliance with the law with some other rules of the Earth Code, such as article 150. Taking into account what has been said, under the transcript, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading and to entrust it to the committee in furthering its second reading to agree with the other articles of the Code of Land and the Law of Ukraine on the Deprivation of Land for Social Needs and Social Needs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u48	Thank you. Although the committee's conclusion is different. So I would ask the rapporteurs to report the committee's conclusions, and then you have the right to express your own opinion. The committee's conclusion is to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for the discussion. Alexander Pecklesenko, Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u49	I share the view that it is necessary to simplify the situation as much as possible when it comes to the issue of mining. At the same time, we must not, in any case, overlook the problems that exist in the territories, particularly environmental problems, social ones. This law should therefore harmonize the interests of the manufacturer and the interests of the population. Unfortunately, it is often the case that the manufacturer enters and forgets everything about the social sphere. For this reason, the issues of mining, the use of resources, must be consistent with the local authorities and the population until the referendums. If this law simplifies the situation in which we dismiss the opinion of local authorities, we certainly do not need such a law. Therefore, I ask all the authors and the Committee to pay close attention to this issue, and the main task of this bill in creating the conditions for the best concessions for the manufacturer to remember the interests of our voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u50	Yes, Kravchenko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u51	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I agree with my colleague, Pecklusenko, on the need for local authorities to look into the issue of disqualification. But not as is being done today in Zaporozhye District at the Pololovska Rudovian Office of the ZAO Mineral. For 3 years, an enterprise cannot, within the framework of a land disqualification previously made, allocate a plot of land to the expansion of a career that has been in existence since 1929. For 3 years we have been in the field of correspondence, write-off and, to date, the enterprise has been stopped at the first stage. This is followed by a metallurgical enterprise, primarily Zaporoztal. That's what firefighters do, but there's a car right now. Therefore, there is no need for local authorities in this law either.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u52	Yes, please remember Paklusenko, a minute of Peckshank.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u53	Respectable colleagues and respectable voters! I'm grateful to my colleague for mentioning the Pologovsky region, mentioning this problem, it's my district. And along with the homicidal government, we are seriously involved in this increase. Regrettably, there are advances there that have been “surprised and made” by the previous power. They gave this land to be used for mining, and they gave it to public property. And now, in order to do everything legally, you have to either pick it up from people or provide new areas. In any case, as difficult as this situation may be, the mismanagement and we, the people's deputies who are entrenched in this territory, will do our utmost to ensure that this enterprise never stops and, on the contrary, has jobs. It's a budget-forming enterprise, it's 600 families. So let us consolidate ourselves around the solution to this problem and repeat it, it is the past power that has created it, and we will have to stretch it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u54	Alexander Mikolaiovich, a little clarification. It can't be your district, not Pova, not any other place, city. You're elected state-wide constituency. Your address is the whole of Ukraine. Yes, please, we will. Question completed. Garbage, one minute, from the committee, please. Although the reporter was already from the committee. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u55	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Garbage, Party of Regions. Well, we've really been looking into this issue on the committee. And the committee didn't make a decision on that. And I made a very different decision. The committee recommended that the bill be returned to work on precisely such grounds that there are many contradictions to this law regarding the right to property of citizens in relation to the rights of local communities and other subjects who will undoubtedly cross with the acts of this law. So I would like to support the committee's proposal and put it to the vote first, Adam Ivanovich. Returning to work because it's a committee decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u56	Yes, thank you. Question completed. I can make both your offer and the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers as the subject of the legislative initiative because it offers such an offer. The question will not change the outcome of the vote. So I am voting on the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft of the Law amending article 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Land on the Simplification of the Procedure for the Provision of Land Areas for Nadra-related Needs. [[Registration number 8209]] Please vote. [[11:46:53]] For 245 The bill was adopted in the first reading. We are considering: a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the protection of rights of landowners transferred to a lease for agricultural purposes]] [[Registration number 6290]] The subject of the legislative initiative is the deputy of Shishkin. There's a short cut. Please. [[11:47:38]] For 208 Thank you. Please, Elina Victorian, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u57	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, the basis for the development and introduction of Bill No.6290 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been repeated appeals to me as the national deputy of Ukraine to the inhabitants of several parts of the region of Kirovograd. There was a situation in which leases of their land were registered only a year after they were actually made by the parties, which, above all, led to significant negative consequences for the owners of the land. What's the point? As a general rule, the lease agreement of land may be extended to the term on which it was filed if one party does not notify the other party of its refusal to continue its operation within six months of the end of the contract. In many cases, however, the date of the contract and the date of its state registration have a significant time difference. The date of entry into force of the treaty is the date of its national registration. Such leases are actually made not by 5 years, but by 6 years, resulting in not only an increase in the duration of the contract, but also a suspension of the party's right to notify the lessors in 6 months of the termination of the contract. Such a situation is used primarily by non-lethal tenants who do not comply with the terms of the contract and with whom the tenants no longer want to continue their contractual relationship. In view of the above, the bill has been drafted with a view to ensuring more effective rights for landowners who are leased for agricultural purposes. The bill proposes to supplement article 125 of the Ukrainian Land Code with a part two, which clearly stipulates that the land should be used to set its limits in kind in the area, to obtain a document certifying the right to it, and to register with the State. To supplement article 15 of the Land Rent Act with the aim of bringing it into line with the proposed article 20 of the Ukrainian Land Rent Act, in particular to supplement the article with a new ground for refusing the state registration of the lease contract: failure to comply with the 30-day time limit for the award of the land lease to the state registration from the time the parties sign up. Explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u58	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u59	In a new edition of article 20 of the Land Rental Act, to specify the period during which the land lease contract is to be submitted for state registration. By limiting this term to a 30-day term. In view of what I've been teaching, I'd like to ask you, honourable colleagues, to adopt Bill 6290 in the first reading and to stop the illegal leases that now take place throughout Ukraine. And finally. Freedom for Political Prisoners! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u60	And in addition, their land!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u61	Yeah. The land is for peasants!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u62	Please Deputy Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Bevanzenko Valerij Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis by a majority vote. However, I would like to point out some significant shortcomings in the bill. Yes, his position does not take into account the situation in Ukraine with the creation of ownership of agricultural land. Since the vast majority of the land in question is used by the only array — agricultural fields. Border signs on these areas were not established, as this would make it impossible to do agricultural work on them. Therefore, if the bill is adopted, the legality of ownership and the use of the land in question will in fact be questioned as to whether it is unacceptable. There is no basis for the bill to establish a 30-day term during which the lease contract is to be entered into state registration. In the explanatory note, the drafter explains the proposal by deliberately delaying the submission of leases to state registration by the absence of a specified term. Artificially increasing the lease term. This statement is not worth noting because: firstly, the rental of a state lease can not only be leased but also leased; and secondly, the use of land on the basis of an unregistered lease of land is contrary to current legislation and is an administrative breach. In view of what has been said, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine should be sent for the purpose of furthering the subject of the legislative initiative. [[No. 6290]] In addition, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine noted the inadmissibility of the bill by giving it the right comments in a letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u64	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u65	in a letter dated 28.02.2011 number 19-421***. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u66	Yes, thank you. Please, if you would like to participate in the discussion, please sign in. Yes, please, Shishkina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u67	Thank you, Your Honor. First, I want to say that I was present at a committee meeting when my bill was being considered, and the committee's decision was to take the basis. This is for everyone, please let me know. Secondly, if there's something out there that doesn't count, then the renter's got the right to make the lease. I'm going to point out that, first of all, your honor, the practice is that the vast majority in the absolute majority of cases are registered by the leaser, not by the renter. Because the renter is a person who is over 50 years old who lives in a village who physically cannot go to a resort or a district center and register a contract. I repeat that I drafted this bill just when people came to me, that is, there is this practice and there are these gaps in legislation. So I'm trying to get my bill to remove them and I've developed a protection mechanism, first of all, for those people who live in villages who are legally illiterate, who don't know the nuances of the law. And the 30-day period is completely justified, because the tenant, the tenant, should be more loyal to him, it is his first advantage. And he's taking them to check-in. So, first of all, 30 days is a very well-founded term, which is the period during which the tenant should submit a contract for state registration, submit and register it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u68	Please, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u69	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I would like to support the author of the legislative initiative, which is, of course, necessary to protect the rights of landowners. And in the first reading, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote in favour of the bill. Let's do an inventory of how many leases are registered in Ukraine today, and we're going to see a huge number of leases that don't have registrations, and that's what property owners are suffering from. I'll tell you something else. Let's look at the phenomenon that's in Ukraine. We see that today the one who rents land will then resell his businesses. Or else, and at the same time, they move automatically, like fortifications and land with them. The question is, when people made a lease with a particular tenant, when he resold his right, his business to another person, people, and these contracts, which pass as fasteners, do we need to make new leases? And in general, the problem that exists in Ukraine is the problem of remaining state-owned enterprises. In Poltavščina, several of them are the Berezovortski Technicum and. It's Beresovorutsky, it's Chutovsky, it's Jubilee, and others are state-owned enterprises that are brought to the pen. Today they are listed in the Cabinet of Ministers for dispossessing, people have worked for decades in enterprises, and they can't now get the land share of the pie, because the Minagropolitics are delaying these processes, they know they're going to sell maybe the land, and why people can't get one piece of it done.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u70	Yes, Catherine Vaschuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u71	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, this subject exists, it is malicious, and we cannot close our eyes to the fact that there are a great deal of disruptions today in dealing with people's renting of land. From my point of view, and such proposals we, the deputies of the Supreme Council, have repeatedly and not one government to allow the lease agreement to be completed, its only form for the whole of Ukraine, its basic requirements, may be added, but the basic requirements to protect the rights of peasants should be written centrally, and this should be done by the land committee, and the Ministry of Agriculture policy should intervene.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u72	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u73	. People suffer from this. And I think it's on time for both the committee and the government to work back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u74	Yes, thank you. Question completed. The discussion showed both the report and the report, and the presentation, which, indeed, is the subject. The factions came from the factions. I'll take a look. Who from the Party of the Regions spoke? Nobody? Well, Smitch 1 minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u75	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Well, the shorter procedure, so the shorter procedure, it limits the ability to say. Yes, indeed, we have considered this bill and found on the committee a majority of the votes that this bill in the first reading should be supported because, in my opinion and in the opinion of most committees, the bill is intended to protect the rights of citizens who do not have legal support and are not always understood in detail. As for the liability of legal persons who rent a large part of our farmland, they should be more responsible both to the State and to the citizens in whom they take advantage or rent land rations. So I asked my colleagues -- there's pros and cons -- to some standards, you can correct some of the editorial moments during the second reading -- to support this bill, because it protects the rights of citizens that are specifically needed today. And that's the need. The previous speaker and you all know there are problems, there are shortcomings, there is such an irresponsibility, that people cannot protect their rights, and it also improves.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u76	Let's be clear. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the protection of the rights of landowners who are present. leased for agricultural purposes]] [[Registration number 6290]] Please vote. [[12:00:52]] For 245 Thank you. The bill was passed. It is appropriate to remind that the author of the legislative initiative is in opposition. Not to be said that opposition laws are not supported. Thank you for being responsible for the duties of the National MP and for participating in the draft bill. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 31 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving criminal and administrative responsibility for crimes and other offences in the field of service is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5428]] There is a request to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:34:22]] For 180. Decision taken. Yes, the reporter is Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Please. There's no reporter, there's no strike. Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on this? The Committee concludes: Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The main scientific and expert office considers it appropriate to reject this bill. I am voting on the first proposal, in accordance with the Rules, to adopt a draft law. Based on the base. [[12:35:18]] For-13. Not accepted, the bill was rejected. I would like to consider the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the removal of certain circumstances that exclude participation in the defence]] [[Registration number 6597]] The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Hennady Zadirko, co-rapporteur, the head of the subcommittee on the law enforcement of Vladimir Moysik's activities. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[12:36:08]] For 209 Decision taken. The reporter is Gennady the Bull. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u78	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The main task of the bill is to improve the criminal process in part of the defence, promote constitutional principles, free choice of defence, presumption of innocence and non-judicial dismissal of a lawyer. In support of the need for adoption of this law, let us note this: On the one hand, it is necessary to exclude from the system the circumstances that involve participation in the case of a guardian, circumstances that allow a certain squabble on the part of those who decide to remove a defender from the case and are, in practice, unjustifiable from the position of just justice. A person who abuses his rights cannot be a defender, hinders the establishment of the truth in a case, delayes the proceedings, disrupts the order in a court of law, and the circumstances that do not correspond to the presumption of innocence enshrined in article 62 of the Constitution of Ukraine. A protector cannot be a person who has been charged with a criminal offence. On the other hand, it is necessary to protect those involved from abuse by defenders, to ensure the rapid and complete detection of crimes, and to involve those responsible in the legal responsibility. The bill proposes, on the one hand, to provide more clearly for the duty, rather than for the right of the defender to drop immediately in the case of circumstances that exclude him from participating in the case, to change to part 7 of article 48 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and to define more clearly the responsibility of the defender for the malicious avoidance of appearance to the court, the investigator and the examiner if his participation is mandatory. Changes to part one of article 185-3, articles 185-4 of the Code of Administrative Offences. On the other hand, excluding unnecessary subjective and practically dangerous abuses, the exclusion of part four of article 61 of the Ukrainian KPC or positions that do not conform to the Ukrainian Constitution. Exceptions to article 4, paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u79	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u80	However, to strengthen the legal guarantees of the defender in other cases to remove him from the case that requires an assessment of the cumulative factual circumstances by extending judicial control and foresight of the right to appeal. Let's see. Of course, we realize that it is difficult for a lawyer whose case is a criminal case to remain independent and act solely to protect the rights of the defendant, as required by the law. But in our view, this issue must be resolved within the limits of the rules of ethics and the disciplinary responsibility of a lawyer. Because in some cases, law enforcement agencies, by abuse of their rights because of criminal cases involving uncomfortable defenders, not only do they remove them from the case but, in fact, without a trial in a person whose guilt is not proven, prohibit them from engaging in their professional activities. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u81	I thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to take part in this discussion, please register. Names of the national MPs, please. Taras Chernobyl, microphone, please. Or from the rostrum, as you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u82	Out of the way. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future. Our group will certainly support this bill. And I would like to add to the very clear presentation of the bill, which our colleague Mr. Hennaday Zadirko said, to add another nuance. Because right now we're taking any legislative initiatives that are relevant to the conduct of the investigation, they're currently trying to tie up some kind of policy. In this case, I can already imagine in advance how they're going to tell me what this is about in some way in the Yulia Tymoshenko case. So I ask everyone to pay attention to a very important point in this law that does not actually apply to the text of the law. The bill is registered on 29.06. 2010 when there was no such thing. And this bill deals exclusively with the creation of normal activities, both investigative and judicial bodies and the conditions for normal adequate protection. On behalf of our group, we ask that we support this bill, because it removes, on the one hand, a factor of deliberate delay that is often done with the assistance of the protector, the destabilization of the relevant judicial and investigative bodies in the course of the case. On the other hand, it removes the problem that was created for the defender with regard to his possible removal in the event that only a criminal case was opened against him. That is to say, in this case, this is the position that must be adopted, since this bill removes a factor that is in conflict with our view, the Constitution of Ukraine. So we ask you to support this bill in the first reading and, after further elaboration, to support it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! No one's insisting on the show anymore? I'm leading up to your well-known conclusion of the committee: return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The main scientific and expert office, the conclusion is: the bill should be returned to pre-work. I'm betting on a motion to vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the basis of the draft Law, on the basis. [[Registration number 6597]] [[12:42:32]] For-24 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the committee's proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to pre-op, and I ask for a vote. [[12:42:57]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the prevention of falsification of medical devices]] [[Registration number 7146]] The rapporteur is Ukraine’s national deputy, Konovaluk Valerius Ilchi. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement issues, Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[12:43:40]] For 215 Decision taken. Thank you. The reporter is Valérie Illrich Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u84	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, honourable voters, the draft Law on the Prevention of Counterfeiting Medical Devices has been prepared with the aim of improving the legal and regulatory provisions that are responsible for violating medical legislation and for more effective protection of the population against the negative consequences of the use of falsified medical devices. Because the production and distribution of counterfeit drugs is a global health problem. According to the World Health Organization, about 50 percent of these drugs are in Ukraine. In 2010 alone, the MOH is a consumer of 77 series of 29 forgeries. I would like to point out that the most popular drugs that have been discovered and banned by counterfeit drugs were the most popular drugs that have the greatest amount of implementation. For example, Festal is what we use, not just that it's individual national MPs and most of the citizens who buy more expensive and then pay another price when they restore their own health after they use these drugs. "Mezim" is also a very common medicine, which is also a fake, you see the quality of counterfeiting. "Doloren" is a tool, which, for example, is an analgesic and an anti-inflammatory agent, which is also a forger. So a person who has a high temperature or a viral infection buys it, not only does it not cure it, but it does a great deal of damage to his health. With regard to responsibility for these medical devices in other parts of the world, in the United States for producing and distributing the term of imprisonment from 20 years to life imprisonment. In Europe, in the European Union, up to 10 years old. Our neighbors, Russia, have up to six years of imprisonment and a fine of 300,000 rubles. In Ukraine, in fact, 1.5 thousand fines are being paid today. A solution to these problems is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u85	Microphone, please complete
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u86	Needs a comprehensive approach. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the draft legislation is harmonised by the European Parliament and the Council of Europe Directive 83. I am therefore convinced that this bill will decriminalize the pharmaceutical market in Ukraine, strengthen the economic position of good-natured pharmaceutical producers and increase the revenue of the state budget. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u87	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues who are ready to participate in the discussion on this bill, please sign up. Please state the names of the national MPs. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction, please, microphone. Then there's Alexander Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u88	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Of course, there is no doubt that the bill must be supported. And the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support it in the first reading. Since the issue is not just a matter of health protection, it is a social and political issue. Under Ukraine’s conditions, when the masses of poor people refuse to eat bread in the most necessary way to obtain medicine to improve their health and when this person has purchased these drugs, it turns out that they are falsified. It is simply a crime and it is necessary to seriously increase the responsibility for these actions. This is not the case with rich people, for they are being treated far away, not in Ukraine, but abroad. This affects the masses of the poorest people in Ukraine. The question is that prices are one thing, because you can't even afford iodine to buy and grease some morning. But the second most important problem is that next to high prices, too high and the mass of counterfeiting. We need to fight this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u89	Yes, Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u90	I do not very much share the point of view on this issue. I'm sure there can be no discussion. Because the most terrible type of crime is to fake a drug that can not only cure tomorrow, but cause harm. That is why I and our faction will vote in favour of this law. What's more, I'm personally in prison for life.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I remind you of the committee's conclusion: To return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The main scientific and expert office has also concluded that the bill is appropriate for further elaboration. In accordance with the Rules, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the prevention of falsification of medical devices]] [[Registration number 7146]] Please vote. [[12:49:49]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose that you consider the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the provision of immediate assistance to persons in danger of life and health. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Hussarov, co-rapporteur, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Vasil Gritzak. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[12:50:34]] For 217 Decision taken. Sergei Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u92	Thank you. Honourable Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, Cabinet of Ministers Order No.1451 on the functioning of medical cleaners from January 1, 2000, was suspended. Ukraine’s Ministry of Health undertook to consider the issue and take further steps to further improve the population’s drug use. Local governments were recommended to consider establishing diagnostic-detoxification rehabilitation and other drug treatment facilities. At the same time, real measures have not been taken to improve the population’s drug use. As a result of the situation, I had a draft and registered bill. The purpose of the bill is to prevent accidents, to prevent the death of those in a helpless condition, regardless of the causes of such a condition, whether it is a heart attack or a state of drunkenness or a sun attack or something else, and to ensure that such persons receive medical care at the right time. In addition, the bill is called upon to reduce the number of offences committed by such persons and by such individuals. The substance of the bill is to amend article 37 of the Ukrainian Health Protection Foundation and article 10 of the Ukrainian Police Act, namely to establish that medical personnel are obliged to establish a health-care facility and to provide the first immediate assistance to persons in a state of emergency, regardless of the reason for the situation, to strengthen the duty of the police to ensure the delivery of these persons to the nearest medical, preventive facility. The Main Committee recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. The Ministry and the Ministry of Health, the Committee on Health, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration believe that this issue is already settled; legislation does not need clarification. In their conclusions, however, they, like the Attorney General’s Office, offer suggestions on the need to detail the arrangements for such assistance. Coming out of what has just been said.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u93	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u94	On the basis of what has just been said, I would like to support the initiative to adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis. Your comments and suggestions from the professional institutions and revenge will certainly be processed and taken into account in the second reading of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u95	Thank you. Vasil Mikolaiovich Gritzak, head of the subcommittee. Please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! A committee on law enforcement was discussed by the Ukrainian National MP, Sergei Mikolaiovich Husarov, in a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Provision of Urgent Assistance to Persons in Danger of Life and Health. Number 7278. The purpose of the bill is to create conditions to prevent accidents, death of persons who are in a state of alcohol or drug abuse, or other life - and - health hazards. Providing them with medical care and prevention of illegal acts, both on their part and on their part. The Committee considered Bill 7278 and believes that its standards will contribute to strengthening guarantees and respect for fundamental human rights for life and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be adopted in the first reading and on the basis of the plenary. Please support the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u97	Thank you, too. Have a seat. Who insists on discussing the matter? Please sign up. Yes, please put your name on the board. Sergey Horidenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u98	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. We're going to support this bill, of course, in the first reading. It needs to be further developed. I'd just like to pay attention, it's a little bit unrelated to the subject of the bill. But man is in a helpless state. Let's see what the situation is today in Ukraine, in the rural areas where the FAPs are closing down. Is it not a helpless situation when a hundred people at one point or another are unable to receive first aid? I think it needs a serious correction of the actions of governments and local authorities to prevent the closure of hospitals in Ukraine today. And yes, we're going to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u99	Please, Alexander Paklusenko. I'm just reminding you, dear fellows, that you can't share in a reduced procedure, but as an exception, we'll give you our word separately. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u100	I would like to say that, in my view, this is one of those laws that must be adopted in the fight against alcoholism and drug addiction. It's just the first step. Maybe it's not perfect. Perhaps there may be questions about what the previous speaker had said. But we need to understand that alcoholism is not a disease of the individual or a lack of will, alcoholism is a disease of the indifference of society. A society where there is a family institution, an institution of religion, where there is a culture where there is work and wages, does not suffer these problems as much as we do. I therefore believe that this law must be passed and, I repeat, must be the first step in the legal framework to combat alcoholism and drug addiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u101	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" read not only names, but also the text of drafts. In this case we're going to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, but the bill is not as simple as it was discussed by many representatives here in the hall. It's not just about people who are in a difficult state who just need help. This is really the case: paragraph one is by creating a mandatory one in the treatment facilities of the appropriate deintoxication chambers, that is, for those with strong alcohol or drug abuse; paragraph two is by imposing direct obligations on the police to deliver them to the appropriate chambers. So here it's all balanced between helping people and actual renderings of the same cleaners, but already on the back of medical institutions. So the second reading will need to be done a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u103	Jaroslav Suhi. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I will not personally support this bill, regardless of the faction's decision. In Zaporozhye, in Shevchenkovsky, there is hospital number two, where they carry all this miracle. You'd see what it looks like: it's smeared, it's gone. How sick are they? It's an abandoned man. It's not a law, it's a declaration. If it was about funding, these nannies who are changing it, and these doctors who have to look at it. What extra rooms are we talking about when we have people lying in the halls right now? If there's no funding for normal, if there's no deliberate issue of combating the aggression of a drug addict or a drunk who comes in after he starts sobering up and see what he's making there, such bills have to have a deep financial and economic justification. Otherwise it's not a bill, it's an unwillingness of some sober to return, something else to do, or load. You would ask the doctors how they would feel about the happiness that now falls on their heads from this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I'm betting on the committee's proposal to vote, and it's down to the idea that the bill needs to be adopted as a basis. The main scientific and expert office considers it appropriate to recommend rejecting the bill. The first is a regular proposal, i.e. a committee proposal, to adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to provide immediate assistance to persons in life-threatening and health-threatening conditions. [[Registration number 7278]] [[13:00:17]] For 225 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for a return to the bill. [[13:00:44]] For 233 We're back. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption on the basis of the bill's draft registration number 7278. [[13:01:05]] For 235 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, I announce for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Border of Ukraine. [[on the establishment of the legal status and the regime of the adjacent zone of Ukraine]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Leonid Alexandrovich Kojara, co-rapporteur – head of the National Security and Defence Committee Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:01:47]] For 217 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u106	Dear National Deputies! On June 3, 1999, the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The convention came into force for Ukraine in 1999. Article 33 of the 1982 Convention provides for the possibility of creating an adjacent zone in which coastal States may exercise the control necessary to prevent customs, fiscal, immigration and sanitation violations and to punish violations of the rules. Furthermore, article 303 of the Convention regulates the legal status of archaeological and historical objects found at the bottom of the sea within the adjacent zone. Coastal States exercise appropriate jurisdiction, have rights and obligations regarding such objects. Unlike other sea areas, territorial seas, inland waters, and continental shelfs, the exercise of rights and obligations that do not require the adoption of separate laws in relation to the very fact of Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Law of the Sea. The control that Ukraine can exercise in the adjacent zone requires the adoption of a separate legislative act. This is explained by the fact that the adjacent zone is not a sovereign territory, such a region of marine space, where the coastal State can exercise limited control to prevent violations and to punish violations of certain rules: customs, fiscal and so forth; and to have rights and obligations regarding sunken archaeological and historical objects. The U.S.S.A. conducted an analysis of the legal regulation of the adjacent zone in some 40 States parties to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. According to him, the vast majority of these nations were found to be in an appropriate position in legislation. Thus, the introduction of an additional article “Accompanied zone of Ukraine” into the State Border Act will create the necessary legal basis for the establishment of the legal status and regime of the adjacent zone. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u107	Finish up. Do you have everyone? From the Committee, Alexander Skibinetsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u108	Dear National Deputies! The National Security and Defence Committee, at its meeting, considered the bill, supporting the whole idea put into this bill to address the issue of the protection of the surrounding zone, the marine zone. At the same time, the members of the committee expressed their intention to return this bill to work, because it contradicts some of the draft laws and some of the Constitution of Ukraine, putting first and foremost the issue of the protection of the adjacent maritime zone in the Border Service, to which these functions do not belong. So the committee's decision is to return the draft to the author for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u109	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues who insist on covering matters, please sign up. Please show me your name. Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u110	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputy, I would like to express my position here, both from the MP group Reforms for the Future, and from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and it is also directed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In our time, we had considered another bill, which we then successfully rejected, really, understanding that it had been inadequately settled in the matter of the adjacent zone. In this case, it is very important for Ukraine to make clear the very fact that it exists within the Black Sea that all other states with it have defined, that is, those rights that are granted to us by an international convention implemented today by everyone other than Ukraine, allowing that hole to be used to dishonor our right to an adjacent zone by other States. In this case, the adjacent zone is not a zone of exclusive economic interests, it does not give a large profit to an additional state, it is not part of an area that determines the sovereignty of the state. But this is our right, which arises from the international instruments that we are obliged to implement. The suggestion: to represent it in other laws, it was first made in a preliminary consideration, but we saw that then we get into much greater contradictions. As far as the Law of State is concerned, this law defines our attitude toward the borders of the Ukrainian State and what is happening on those borders. In this case, apart from the border services, no one else can monitor what is happening within the adjacent zone, no one can be involved in the cessation of certain violations. It's a very limited circle of rights given to the sovereign state within the adjacent zone, but in this case, apart from the Law on State border, it's the very fact that the zone exists, it's represented, and it's also part of our national interests, we're nowhere else. Therefore, there is a request to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u111	Yes, Your Honor, no one's insisting on the speech anymore? No, it's not. Once again, I remind you of the conclusion of the committee that the subject should be returned to the legislative initiative of the draft law. This is the view of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On the State Border of Ukraine". [[on the establishment of the legal status and the regime of the adjacent zone of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 7407]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:08:30.]] For 232 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you a bill amending the Ukrainian Security Service Act. [[on the control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine over the Security Service]] [[Registration number 7551]] Taking your proposal into account, I am putting to the vote the issue of reviewing the bill with a reduced procedure. [[13:09:06]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee subcommittee, Alexander Matviyovich Scybinetsky. And from the committee, and the author, four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u112	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen, a democratic society needs a clearly regulated democratic civilian control over the activities of special services. Another safeguard before the ever - existing temptation to use it in narrow - party or internal or even personal interests simply does not exist. Parliamentary control must play a key role in this democratic system of restraints and opponents. After returning to the Constitution in 1996, amendments were made to Ukrainian legislation, which virtually nullifies the possibility of parliamentary control over special services. The Security Service Act even removes the line that the service is under the control of the Supreme Council. Only a rule is left that the head of the Security Service should submit an annual report to Parliament, but it is not indicated when, of which issues, and in what form. There is no situation in which a special service is not controlled in any other form of the legislative body in any democratic country. Even in such a presidential state as the United States, the special Senate and Congressional Committees have the widest supervisory powers, including not only budget issues and compliance with existing legislation, but also the evaluation of the effectiveness of their activities, the announcement of important operations, the investigation of violations, access to documents, and personnel. Thus, it is clear that there is an urgent need for such adjustments to the Ukrainian legislation that would bring us closer to the issue of the control of services in Europe, especially as required by resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 1713 2005. In fact, the task, I quote, "is to ensure the improvement of legislation on the activities of the Ukrainian Security Service in accordance with the generally accepted democratic standards, and the President of Ukraine, by his decree of 13 April of this year, No. 4681 on the approval of Ukraine's annual National Programme for Cooperation with NATO for 2011. It is to improve Parliament’s control of the Ukrainian Security Service that the proposed bill is aimed at improving its control. The mandate of a professional committee to monitor compliance with the Congregation Law Enforcement Service and to analyse relevant information is specified, and it is necessary for officials to consider its recommendations. It's not about duplicating the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it's about detailing and detailing the committee. The bill also proposes to establish a professional qualification for service managers in order to prevent the practice of assignment by subjective criteria. A clear order and legal basis are established for the release of the head of the service and his deputies. The bill's authors didn't come out with opposition motivation, I'm stressing this because similar initiatives were on our side when most of them were completely different. We have come out of the need to provide effective democratic civilian control over Ukraine's main special services through a professional parliamentary committee representing all political forces. The National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 2 March considered this bill, the Ukrainian National Deputies, unanimously endorsed the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted on the basis of the first reading, the same conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u113	Thank you, Alexander Matviyovich. Dear colleagues! If there is a need to discuss this bill, please register. First name, please show me the national MPs. Yuri Samuelenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! Together with Alexander Matveević, we have drafted a new version of the Ukrainian Security Service Act and this year, on the basis of the basic condition that a new strategy for Ukraine's national security will be developed following the adoption of the Law on Foreign and Internal Policy, which will define external and internal threats that will result in the reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the revision of the legislative framework of the entire force structure. I therefore believe that I fully support Alexander Matveević and the strengthening of parliamentary control, and I have discussed this at the Committee meeting, and the criteria for the appointment of senior positions, in particular the Chairman of the Security Service, his deputies, but at the same time agree with the Scientific and Expert Office that organizational management experience is not defined as a legislative criterion. But that would be correct on second reading. Therefore, I believe that even if we now take the bill as a basis, it will be consistent with the new national security strategy. I believe that it is necessary to delay the adoption of this law and to send this bill to be finalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u115	Dear National Deputies! The committee, I remind you, proposes to adopt the bill on a basis reported by Alexander Matviyovich Skibinetsky. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted on a basis, other ideas and proposals have been made. At the same time, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Security Service Act. [[on the control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine over the Security Service]] [[Registration number 7551]] [[13:15:58]] For-51 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative of the draft law. [[13:16:21]] For-51 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies, I am announcing the draft Law on Amendments to Art. 43th and 1st. 48 "Ukrainian Mining Law". [[on the social rights of families of deceased pensioners who receive pensions due to the loss of a breadwinner]] [[Registration number 7439]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:17:05]] For 216 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Landik Vladimir Ivanovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security Viktor Ivanovich Turmanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u116	Honorary Presidium, Honourable National Deputies, your opinion is proposed by the Law of Ukraine amending article 43, article 48 of the "Urban Law of Ukraine" (to ensure the social rights of families of deceased pensioners who receive pensions in connection with the loss of a breadwinner. The bill was introduced earlier that year in view of the fact that, following the adoption of the Ukrainian Mining Safety Act, pensioners who worked in coal companies for 15 or more years had a mixed internship, i.e. work under List 1 and List 2 had lost the right to benefit from the purchase of fuel. So for this population category, there's a rather difficult situation that needs our intervention with you. At the same time, part 5 of article 48 of Ukraine’s Mining Law is supplemented by the seventh paragraph, according to which families of deceased pensioners should prove that their relatives were entitled to coal benefits. Its application in practice showed its imperfection, because most of the pensioners died in the '80s and '90s, and the archive records are only 3 years old and it's impossible for them to prove it. Article 43 of the Ukrainian Mining Law also provides for the rights and social guarantees of mining workers. But the law does not take into account social guarantees for the free provision of coal for families who have lost a breadwinner whose death is not related to production but who have died. Because all of these legislative gaps affect the interests of the most vulnerable groups of the population and the elderly among them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u117	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u118	and the climate conditions in which they live, we have proposed amendments to articles 43 and 48 of the Mining Law. I'll tell you what, it's very few Russian people left, it's mostly 80 or more people. There's a grandmother in the Plains who's 100 years old, she's raised seven kids, sent them to the mines, her husband died a long time ago, she's not driven. Everyone works in mines, everything for the mine, everything for the country, and the coal can't get because the breadwinner died in Soviet times. There's very few of them. Money's got to be worth a penny. But these people are the same, by the way, participants in the war. That's why I asked us to help them solve this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u119	Victor Ivanovich Turmanov. Please. Victor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u120	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, draft Act amending 43, article 48 of the Upper Law. [[on the social rights of families of deceased pensioners who receive a pension in the event of the loss of a breadwinner]] The Committee of the Supreme Council on the Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has considered the draft Act amending articles 43, 48 of the Supreme Law. Draft Law 7439 of the People's Deputy Vladimir Ivanovich Landika. [[on the social rights of families of deceased pensioners who have received a pension for the loss of a breadwinner]] And invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it on first reading as a result of its consideration. The substance of the amendment, the author said today, was the families of the deceased pensioners who had the right in life to receive a pension on the occasion of the loss of the breadwinner. The draft provides for the amendment of 43, 48 articles of the Upper Law and its alignment with article 46 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The rules proposed by the bill would provide free domestic fuel to families who had lost a breadwinner whose death was not related to production. Today the author of the bill, these people are said to have been crying. I believe that the Supreme Council should adopt this bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommends, as a result of the first-reading review, that it be based on the comments made and proposals made. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, who will be involved in this discussion? Is there one? Please sign up. Sign up. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u122	The essence of this law may not have been understood by everyone, that if a family got one, a person died, and a family, that is, a wife, gets a pension, and the coal before it got one, now that it's dead, it doesn't get one. And they brought a certificate, and the records, you know, they resell the mines, they go away, they close, there's nothing else you can find. But what we are told will be a lot of money from the budget for this, first of all, kopecks, second of all, I propose the introduction of this law since January 2012, that is, from the new fiscal year to which we will invest these expenses. They're small. But not this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u123	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u124	Please give the floor to a member of the Reform Group for the Future – Gennady Zadirk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u125	Gennady Kick-Ass, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u126	The Reform Group for the Future, Gennady the Bull. As a national deputy who worked for some time in the Donetsk region and was entrenched in one of the districts in the Donetsk region, I can say that, indeed, such a problem arises when an enterprise, a mine, or some of the things associated with a breadwinner disappear. And after that, the family finds itself in a very difficult situation. I think this bill is very necessary. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" will definitely support it, the more this bill helps to resolve issues today, in principle, there are situations where even managers of enterprises, managers of mines are willing to provide such assistance, but by law they have no right to do so. So today, when we settle this issue, we're actually able to solve the social problems that unfortunately exist on Donbas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u127	Respectable national MPs, discussions. Valentina Matthew, please microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues! This problem is related to the social rights of families, as stated in the draft law, the deceased pensioners. But this, I want to emphasize, is what I understand, widows of dead pensioners who receive a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner. This is a problem that we are often told about when we meet with voters in Donetsk, Lugansk, Dnipropetrovsk, Lviv oblasts. The bill proposes making appropriate changes to the mining law to expand the number of people who are entitled to free coal mining on the basis of coal-producing enterprises. And that's perfectly normal. This must be done. So our faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u129	Dear National Deputies! Now let us listen to the position of the government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u130	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Social Policy would consider it appropriate to support the bill if it was clearly defined here that it was for widows and not for families. Because the concept of family is quite broad. And we don't think it's necessary to provide for the young industrious in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u131	Yes, please, Vladimir Landik, a clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u132	Thank you for the correction. We can accept it in the first reading. In another, we will replace the word “families ” with“ widows. ” I meant, of course, a widow. Both me and any MP working in the coal regions address this issue. But there will be another very important question. Those mines that have been restructured, those that have been shut down, bankruptcy and so on. After all, this category of people, old, very old, old, fell out completely. They're all over 70 years old, not so many of them, but they're not provided by the coal country at all, anywhere or anywhere. This is also a very serious factor. That is why I believe that this bill is very important and, moreover, we will find money from next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, suggestions, and positions are understandable. I put to the vote the decision of the committee for consideration by the Supreme Council, namely the adoption of the draft Act amending article 43 and article 48 of the "Ukrainian Mining Code" taking into account that the word "simai" will be replaced by the word "widows", yes, in preparation for the second reading. [[on the social rights of families of deceased pensioners who receive pensions due to the loss of a breadwinner]] Registration number 7439. Please vote. [[13:28:48]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. The factions, please. Region Party – 177, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-factional – 7. Dear National Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return to the draft Ukrainian Law on legislative measures to reform Ukraine's pension system. Since we've brought it into the agenda, and now the Cabinet of Ministers, after discussion, is proposing that this bill be returned to them, we should take the appropriate decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine calling off the draft Ukrainian Law on Measures for Legislative Reform of the Pension System. Please vote. [[13:30:10]] For 257 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 179, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-factional – 8. But apparently, the epoch with this bill has not yet been completed. You know what this is about. Honourable National Deputies, I announce for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. [[on the protection of first-group persons with disabilities]] [[Registration number 4747]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Does the author propose to take it off? One minute, vote off. Please, Gennady Samofalov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u134	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, of course, the law is very necessary and important, but unfortunately it needs to be finalized today with the Committee on Budgets because there are serious budgetary burdens. He would therefore like to be deferred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u135	Do you want to postpone or withdraw? I am voting for a motion to withdraw the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. [[on the protection of first-group persons with disabilities]] [[Registration number 4747]] Please vote. [[13:32:06]] For 224 Dear colleagues, we now have to consider this bill. Well, let's do this now. Since there is a committee's decision not to waste time, I'm going to put acceptance to the vote as a basis. If the Supreme Council accepts it as a basis; if not, it will be regarded as rejected. So are we going to report it or are we going to put it to a vote right now? I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 4747]] [[13:33:05]] For-53 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing before the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. [[on the determination of the jurisdiction of administrative matters]] [[Registration number 7192]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Yes, while you're voting, I'm announcing a report by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Elina Viktorovn Shishkin, and a co-rapporteur, head of the Justice Committee's Subcommittee, Julia Volodymyrovn Ljovcken. [[13:33:39]] For 223 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u136	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The purpose of Bill 7192 is to reconcile the "General Positions" of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality with the changes made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the KASU in 2009-2010. To this end, I propose making appropriate changes to articles 17, 18 and 20 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice. Paragraph 3 of part three of article 17 of the SASU proposes that I add the words “in court”. I will point out that according to articles 213-244, which are marked 18 of the Code of Administrative Offences, more than half a hundred bodies have the right to bring individuals to administrative responsibility and impose administrative obligations on them. Of the totality of such organs, only the court’s acts of imposing administrative charges on offenders cannot be sued in administrative proceedings. In this case, the legislator has established an institutional order of action within the system of courts of general jurisdiction. The whole part of article 17 of KASU makes sense of the fact that disputes with the subject of the authority that they have given birth to in authority cannot be considered in the order of administrative jurisdiction. This rule does not refer to what cases are prohibited from being tried by the administrative court on the basis of a criminal initiative of authority, but rather to which it cannot be addressed by the people, i.e. the administrative court is forbidden to respond to such appeals by opening the case. That is why the concept of the norm of article 17, part 3, paragraph 3, of the KASU is intended to warn applicants who are in administrative jurisdiction not to make similar claims to the administrative court, which is the same logic that the legislator introduced in article 17, part 3, paragraph 2, of the CSU. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, making changes to the KASU during the 9th, 10th years, gave the Courts of Appeal an additional mandate, such as the first instance hearing. However, article 18, which defines the subjective jurisdiction of the administrative courts to deal with cases in the first instance, did not exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u137	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u138	has not been supplemented by an indication that the Courts of Appeal are also the courts of the first instance which do not comply with the doctrinal requirements for the preparation and development of legal acts. So I suggest that article 18 be added to the new part 4 and that it be placed in accordance with article 173 of the CASU, complementing part 1 of paragraph 5. To this end, amendments to article 20 of the Code of Administrative Justice are to be made, which provides that the Courts of Appeal decide administrative matters as the courts of the first instance. I ask the Supreme Council to support this bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u139	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Dmitri Pritika from the committee. Please, the committee's conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u140	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered at its meeting a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy Evelyn Shishkin. [[on the determination of the jurisdiction of administrative matters]] The bill is designed to bring the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine into line with the amendments made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Code in 2009, 2010 on the harmonization of the provisions of the Code of Administrative Offences and the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine on the resolution of disputes over the imposition of administrative charges, as well as the powers of the Courts of Appeal to deal with administrative matters in separate categories of the Court of First Instance. It should be noted that the proposal: to complete the third part of article 17 of the SASU with the words "in court" raises objections. In the event that this proposal is implemented with the content of the SASA, it will be concluded that the jurisdiction of the administrative courts will be extended to public-law cases concerning the imposition of administrative charges in court. In view of the above, the first section of the first project should be deleted. According to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the draft law on the drafting of the new part of article 18 of KASU is a failure and does not clearly determine the substantive jurisdiction of administrative cases to appeals, administrative courts. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the first reading of the bill should be based on the comments and suggestions made. The committee also decided to recommend Bill 7192 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u141	Yes. Thank you. Dear fellow speakers, please sign up if there are such desirable ones. Yes, please put your surnames on the information board. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, if this bill were to be considered in full procedure, you could ask questions, maybe there was some clarity, but so far I've come to this conclusion, and Mrs. Elina doesn't have the possibility to answer these questions, and we've come up with this as with the previous bill, when we came back three or four times to understand that it's the widows of those miners who are not alive. In this case, there's some kind of contradictory trend, it turns out, well, it's as if I've figured out that the administrative courts have to look at all of the questions in the first instance about administrative mergers, even though the administrative courts are looking at the complaints, the charges against all administrative charges. Then I didn't understand the logic of the bill at all, and what we wanted, what we wanted to achieve. It seems to me that in this case, the position of the profile committee should be clearer. Well, for the day as I read it, as I understood it and heard it from the speech in the rostrum, this bill needs to be sent for further work, so that the following draft of the Law, where the issue of CASU is clearly defined, and what we are talking about is what we are talking about and what we are trying to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u143	Yes, distinguished national deputies, from the Elin Shishkin faction, please. One minute, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u144	Yes, thank you. I'm going to point out a preliminary report that, based on the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, as it understands the position of the third part of article 17 of the CSU as a warning against bringing persons to administrative responsibility for administrative misconduct before the administrative court. I want to point out that that's exactly what's wrong with law enforcement, and I'm going to point out that there's no dispute with power here, and there's a criminal act of power against human beings. On the basis of the conflicts that must be resolved in the order of administrative litigation, however, is the right to complain about the actions of the authorities. I propose by my bill that the jurisdiction of the administrative courts should not be extended to public-law cases concerning the imposition of administrative charges that have been made in court. First of all. That is, that a person who, for example, is held in administrative custody should not have the right to appeal to the Administrative Court but to the ordinary court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u145	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. I would like to place a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice. [[on the determination of the jurisdiction of administrative matters]] [[Registration number 7192]] Please vote. [[13:42:19]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Let us then vote on the proposal to re-establish the subject of the legislative initiative for further development if there is no objection. Please vote. [[13:42:47]] For-50 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. That's too bad. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for the consideration of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine. [[on the period of appeal to the court]] The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Helen Juryovna Šustik. The focal point is the head of Dmitri Pritika's subcommittee. The proposal was short - lived. I'm putting her to the vote. Please vote. [[13:43:33]] For 209 Decision taken. Please, Olena Yuriovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u146	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected TV and radio viewers! The so-called judicial reform has reduced the term of appeal to the administrative court to 6 months, which has significantly narrowed the procedural rights of applicants and the possibility of judicial protection. I will remind you that this is a gross violation of article 22 of the Constitution. The bill therefore proposes that the annual term be returned to administrative jurisdiction and that a special period of 3 years should be set to refer the most painful matters of calculation, appointment, recalculation, retirement, payment, and relief to children of war, and so on. In this way, access to justice of the least socially protected citizens will be improved and will be deprived of unnecessary legal burden. Now people are forced to go to court every six months to choose the state-guaranteed payoffs. During the past year alone, about 700,000 social cases were brought before the courts of the first instance. That's almost 30 percent of the total and over 250,000 in the appeal. Which is up to 66 percent of all appeals. I ask your attention to these numbers. Dear colleagues! By setting a three - year deadline for court action in social disputes, we will do great service not only to humans but will reduce the workload of the courts six times. I would like to remind you that before the decision of the CSO of 9 September last year, citizens have appealed to the court within a three-year period in civil proceedings. It is therefore proposed to make appropriate changes to the Transitional Regulations of the SASA and to establish that individuals who have been violated by the rights, freedoms and interests between 10 March 2010 and 9 September 2010 have the same right to appeal to the administrative court for three years. I'll say that the Committee on Justice, Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, on Social Policy and Labour, the Scientific and Expert Offices propose to adopt a bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u147	Thank you, too. Have a seat. Dmitry Mikitovich Pritica, please, for the committee's decision to provide information.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u148	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered at its meeting a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Shustik and Soboljev. [[on the period of appeal to the court]] The bill is designed to ensure effective judicial protection of the rights, freedoms and interests of persons, optimization of the work of the courts, the economy of the budget for the case, in particular the proposal to increase the time limits for bringing citizens to the administrative court for the protection of their cases from six months to a year after the person has been able to learn about the violation of his rights. It is also proposed that a three - year period be set for the prosecutor to appeal to the administrative court in disputes over social payments. According to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, there is no need to increase to a three - year term to refer the plaintiff to the administrative court in disputes over social payments. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill as a basis for consideration in the first reading, taking into account the comments made. Having considered the bill, the expert conclusions, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice to be adopted on first reading as a basis. [[on the period of appeal to the court]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u149	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign in. Names of the national deputies please be brought out. Soroczynko-Kyrilenko MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u150	I'd like to give you the word "Shitter Hennadia" from the "Reforms for the Future" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u151	Thank you. MP's Reform for the Future, Gennady Zadirko, Mikolayevščina. A very good bill, it allows people to defend themselves in court. This was the case that the judicial reform restricted their rights and, instead of even being subject to judicial reform, for a year the people could go to court, and today they were limited to six months. That's why we support, the MPs support this bill, and we think it's appropriate. The return of citizens to the administrative court for the protection of their rights, freedoms and interests for one year, as envisaged by 2010. And we also support a three-year term for protecting our social rights. We understand that there were certain restrictions and it was quite logically written by the author of the bill that the freedoms and interests that were violated between 10 March 2010 and 9 September 2010 were also subject to this rule of law. We will support this bill as a social one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u152	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u153	The faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, indeed, Helen Juryovna has done well, made some changes to the Code of Administrative Justice, she sees what the problems are, and we see as a political force that really needs to be regulated. But one question, dear fellows, if the opposition would like this law to work, where they are in the hall, why they're putting us to work, we're giving laws, and you're voting for us. Perhaps they are not interested in the law, perhaps it is simply a political law. So I'll be honest with you, we may or may not vote, because we can't do all the work for them, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We need to figure out why people come in the morning. It's if the teacher came to school, signed up and said, "Children, lessons are over." And I'd go, and I'd go to pay tonight. If they are not available, register, give some credit to these people who do not want to work. Therefore, it is sad that normal laws are passed against the opposition, and opposition does not vote for them. And we see it in all the parameters and there are still laws that no one needs at all. They need a naked policy, let them go somewhere, but they'll give them a chance to work properly. And another, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I see we have two or three laws left, maybe we'd be working without a break, and we'd be doing committee work after lunch. But voters need to understand why we work so hard. Because in the hall, sorry for the word, there's no kiss, there's no kiss. Laws are passed, we discuss, serious laws that are important to the state, we vote in conjunction with understanding and without opposition, you see, we can do without it. But I'm sorry that the opposition has no opinion, it doesn't bring it, and for any laws it doesn't vote for, I'm asking you to take that into account, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in a democratic state and in a democratic society without opposition, we can't afford it, it's the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u155	It'll be tomorrow. That's the first one. Secondly, my fellow Members, we have something to do in the evening session, in the morning session we have included in the agenda a number of bills that are prepared for consideration. Among them is the Autonomy Government Bill, a number of others, and we need to make the right decisions, but on June 3, there will be a regional meeting. And we must say in this session that for our part, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is doing everything necessary to ensure the dynamic development of Crimea. Ladies and gentlemen, back to the legislative initiative of our colleague Shustik Helena Juryivna. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis, and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is of the same opinion. At the same time, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has the right to speak. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u156	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, introduced by the Olena Juryovna Shustik Bill, we see that it is really aimed at ensuring more effective judicial protection of the rights, freedom of interest of persons. What's more, now that we've entered that stage of active implementation of the new, latest Law on Sudokus, which, unfortunately, has very, very large defects. What is proposed? It is proposed to establish an annual term of six months, and today it is six months, a request to the administrative court for the protection of the rights of our citizens. And that's what we're dealing with when we're putting this standard in place every day. We're being approached by a lot of people. Therefore, the Communist faction will support the bill. He answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u157	Please finish, will you? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm returning to what the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main science-expert management will follow the same pattern. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for acceptance on the basis of the draft amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice. [[on the period of appeal to the court]] [[Registration number 7467]] Please vote. [[13:54:00]] For-51 The decision is not taken. I am voting for the return of the draft law to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[Registration number 7467]] [[13:54:26]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us briefly consider another bill. Here's Dmitry's author and reporter Mikitovich Pritika. This is a draft law amending article 19 of the master procedural code of Ukraine. [[on the procedural statute of the judge]] [[Registration number 7492]] Let's look at it in a simplified way. [[13:55:05]] For 218. Decision taken. Yes, please, Dmitri Mikitovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable national MPs, the purpose of the bill is to introduce the provisions of article 19 of the Ukrainian master-procedural code in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine. The current version of the article states that the judicial status of the judge is determined by the Ukrainian Law on Economic Courts, whereas in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice, 2002, the above-mentioned bill, the law, the Law on Economic Courts, has ceased to be valid. The Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 7 July 2010 the Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges recognized that Ukraine's laws on the judiciary of Ukraine and on the status of judges of 2002. The project therefore proposes to amend article 19 of the Ukrainian Code of Commerce and Procedure and to establish that the judicial status of the judge is determined only by the Ukrainian Act on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the project can be adopted. In view of the fact that a technical error was essentially made, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Economic and Procedural Code on the Procedural Status of Judges to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. There's really nothing to discuss here, no. It's a technical error at the bar of the law, the Code of Masters and Procedures. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on the performance? If anyone insists, please sign in. Let's check it out. Yes, I'd like the names of the National Deputies. Taras Blackwall, please, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u160	Well, one, very short and simple. The MP “Reforms for the Future” suggests adopting a bill as a whole, without dividing it into first and second readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m0.u161	Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 19 of the master procedural code of Ukraine. [[concerning the procedural status of the judge]] [[Registration number 7492]] Based on the base. [[13:57:48]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Since there is a denial, we cannot accept it as a whole. No, Taras Cranwell denies it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, who's to say no? None. Then I put to the vote the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending article 19 of the master procedural code of Ukraine as a law. [[concerning the procedural status of the judge]] Registration number 7492. [[13:58:36]] For 255 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, at 16 o'clock we'll finish the drafts, we have 4 left, which are set by schedule. And then we're going to look at the bills that we've made in the morning a positive decision about the inclusion in the agenda. I'll tell you what kind of bills these are. These are the numbers: 8191, 8318, 8488, 8175 and so on and so forth. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll continue in plenary at 16 hours.
