ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the glade system, let's register. [[16:01:58]] There are 408 National Deputies cards registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Let us now consider first - reading questions. The issue is being considered, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Aid to Families with Children, to pay for the birth of a child. Registration number 7521. There'll be no objection to the reduced procedure? Please vote. [[16:02:47]] For-151 Copy that. Please, Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u2	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to pay attention to this bill, because this is the most enjoyable thing for me to do today, because I want to inform you, my dear fellows, and all of our citizens that the programming principles of Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic's program, the pre-election program, are starting to happen. You remember that in support of families with children, it was predicted that in the eleventh year, at the birth of the first child, the Ukrainian family would receive 25,000 dollars, the second - 50,000 dollars, the third and every next - 100,000 dollars. Now, Victor Fedorovich Janukovic suggests that we do the following: firstly, increase the total child support by 8 living minimums or 6 000 680 grevens for the first child; 15 living minimums or 12 thousand 525 grevens for the second child; 30 living minimums or 25,000 50 grivs for the third child. Secondly, I want to say that now the amount of aid is going to be: 26,000 50 dollars for the first child, 50,000 100 dollars for the second child and 100,000 200 dollars for the third and every next child. In addition, it is proposed to increase the amount of the one - time payment of this aid in 2011 by 835 dollars, and it will be an average of 8 thousand,350 dollars. And thirdly, there is a double increase in the period during which monthly payments will be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u3	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u4	for the first child for 24 months instead of 12 months, for the second child for 48 months instead of 24, for the third and every next child for 72 months instead of 36. Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important element of the social support of the newborn child and, in particular, the financial reinforcement of care support for her for up to three years. The bill proposed by the President of Ukraine was supported by the government. And the honourable people's deputies, I ask you, all of us to support this noble proposal of the President of Ukraine. Moreover, the government has the means to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u5	Please, from the Committee on Family and Youth Sports and Tourism, Lukyanov Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, the February 2, 2011, meeting committee discussed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children on Childbirth, introduced by President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine. The bill proposes to amend article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children, which foresees an increase in both the overall size of assistance for the birth of a child and the size of its one-time payment. The Committee on Social Policy and Lands supports the adoption of the bill as a basis, but considers it necessary to review the proposed mechanism of monthly payment of aid in order not to allow its size to be reduced. It offers 695 bracelets for the first child, 870 bracelets for the second child, and 1275 bracelets for the third child. Under the law in force, this is equivalent to 905, 1253 and 1880. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the bill as a basis. But it needs to be brought into line with the requirements of the norm. Technicians. If changes apply only to one article of the law, the title of the bill should include the article. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that the bill has no impact on budget implementation in 2011 but increases budget expenditure in 2012 and the following years. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children on Childbirth, introduced by President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine, on 1 April 2011. Please support the committee's decision. But I want to make a separate point. The president fulfilled his promises, and by the end of 2011, the first child's birth, if adopted, will have 26,000 dollars, the second, 52, the third, and the next, 104 thousand dollars. I find it highly contradictory to increase the payment of birth aid.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u7	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u8	I find it contradictory to increase the payment of aid when giving birth to a second, third child, because the first child is harder to raise and maintain than the second and third. The first child is born to young people with no experience in life, not provided with housing, who receive a scholarship or a small salary. By no means can a second or third child be placed more expensive than the first. In my opinion, the family’s State aid should be the same for each child. There is no way to increase the birth rate by increasing disposable care if children are still not provided with kindergartens or sports, cultural, and health facilities. Associative families give birth to children primarily for the purpose of receiving substantial funds and then spend them to meet their own needs without fulfilling their parental responsibilities. So I believe that there is a deep need for a profound reform of the entire state aid pay system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u9	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Two for, two against. Yes, Stishenko, the BUT faction. Get ready for Kamchatno.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u10	A colleague of mine is asked to pass it on to my Pavlovsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u11	Please, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing another kind of blasphemy of power when, for a noble purpose and as such, the President's promises to increase by twofold are well remembered, helping with the birth of a child. A representative of the President forgot to read the fifth paragraph — financial justification, financial and economic justification for the document, and here it is written in black and white. I'm reading. "As a result of the implementation of the bill's provisions, in 2011 the cost of aid for the birth of a child will be reduced by 1.45 billion dollars," i.e. by nearly one and a half billion dollars of aid will be reduced compared to the costs of existing legislation. Also, Akimov’s administrators added a tablet. Please let our colleagues see what the economy is up to. And so it turns out that according to the legislation in force, now the mother is the first one, the first child gets 905 dollars, and the President's proposal is that she gets 695 dollars a month. The second child is now given the family of 1,250 dollars, and will receive 870. And the third is going to get to 1880, and they're going to get to 1275. So think, for every child, the family spends between 210 and 605 dollars less! Is that a deterioration or an improvement in life?Oh, my God! That's blasphemy! And you know what they're doing? A little 10 percent increase in aid instead of 2 times, and it was extended instead of 24 months by 72! And the child will receive it for up to six years! The child will go to the first grade, and the mother is still receiving support for the birth! Shame! I think it's disgusting to pass this law. Still, 10 percent more. But to explain to people, what is the improvement?Oh, my God! It's just a complication and a manipulation! Keep your promises.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u13	Kamchatny, the Reform Group for the Future. Rubinsky's after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u14	Dear colleagues! Kamchat, MP, Reform for the Future. Well, I don't know who's going to pass this law, who's with the disgust, who's happy. But there's obviously one thing. That our mothers, young mothers, will take him with great support and joy. So our group will vote in favour of this bill. At the same time, we agree with the thesis that our colleague Lukyanov said that, unfortunately, there are such, I would say, nonconformal mothers who need to make this mechanism fair so that there is no abuse at the birth of a child. And then so that this child actually gets these funds in the form of maternal help. And there was no such thing as pointing to others, such as, say, unrighteous goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u15	Zarubinsky Oleg, faction of the People's Party. Get ready for Carpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u16	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. I can agree with one about the committee's conclusion, and the other I can't. With what, it is true that if a change is made to one of the articles, a change to a specific article should also appear in the title of the bill. It's a rule. As for the statement or the thought that the second and third children should be exactly the same as the first, or the first one as the second and the third, I have my doubts here. You know, in demographics, there's a demographic in science that's called simple reproduction. A simple play is when a family with a mother and a father is born 2.2, sorry about that, but it's medium-life. Advanced demography is when there are three or more children. Thus, it is vital for a family to have a second and a third child, since they are confined to their first child, in which case the demographic problem will never be solved because they produce only one child. That's why it's the right differentiation, I think. As far as the question of how long these payouts are concerned, there are two positions. On the one hand, it seems good when a one - time payment, but that's it. But you're all in the districts, and you know very well that often children are born into disadvantaged families, thirdly, fourthly, and so on. And this raises a serious question about whether this money should go once and immediately be spent and not just on a child, let’s be honest; or whether it will be done for a longer period of time and even in a troubled family will be forced to spend more time on a child. That's the position. And the next moment. I think the name of the heroin mom should be given by now. Thousands of women are waiting for him. Our faction of the People's Party has long been asking this question, and it's not being solved. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u17	Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u18	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Of course, the desire to help families with their children is noble, and it has long been used by politicians in Ukraine. But I want to point out that for the first time since 2005, 530,000 children were born there in 11 months, but 14,000 children were born there in 2011. So just by these factors, these factors, the increase in disposable payments at birth, don't solve the problem. Because this is evidence that the decline in the number of children born in 2010 is generally a lack of confidence in the socio-economic situation created by this power, is a person's disillusionment tomorrow. And you can also say, of course, that time stretches are positives and negatives, but for most people, really, inflation is very fast all of these supplements cancel out. And you really need to pay attention to price policies for food, for children's clothing. You can see that both in markets and in children’s clothing stores can be more orderly than adult clothing. If this is not done, these payments seem to be very funny. The other thing about diet is that it's very valuable. And the other thing to do is that there's a lot of heroin mothers, and for a very long time over the year, there's been debt on payments to multi-child mothers. And that's why this problem is multiplicity, multifactory, and just to think that it's going to be or is not going to be a valid factor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u19	Yeah, one minute from the faction that didn't register. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, the political hysteria the first speaker had, the world had never seen. It's called everything, there's no argument. Even what the President admitted was from the rostrum, that the President had increased in general, and they had done it in their head. Because at first, when the decision was made, we discussed it with you, or maybe in full at 1 month, we'd spend it all, give it all to the family at 1 month. Then they said, ‘Wait, where is the guarantee that a normal family? Where is the guarantee that this money will not be spent, that it will not be boiled, and that there will be nothing left for the children?” And here it is proposed to extend the benefit from the State for longer periods, and thus each month to give the money to the mother so that the child can feel and receive money from the State, yes. It's kind of a guarantee! A guarantee for families where parents see, not children, but, above all, see.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u21	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u22	We therefore suggest that we do not speculate at Christmas. Don't speculate at Christmas! Let us support the President who has drafted the law in the context of the social agenda voted by the people in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, calm down. I understand that all those who are so enthusiastic and enthusiastic about the problem may be thinking about how to make that money. I welcome that. I'd like to congratulate you on the need for us to work on this. Please mention. Lukyanova, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, I understand so much that it's just like I woke up. The mood in this room is aroused when you think about children, it's positive. But I'd like to say. Maybe that's not how they understood me. I propose that we adopt the bill in the first reading, and then we all improve it together, to the way we want to see it. It doesn't mean you don't have to take it, it needs it, because Mom's really waiting for that money. And the kids are waiting for this money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u25	Dear colleagues! Please listen carefully. The MPs who made the arguments talked about the declining aid, and they didn't say exactly right. Why? If you look at the moon, it's supposed to be. It's not like it's, and it's actually a month-long decline. But in general, it's increasing because it's paying for this aid right now for one year and here. [[B in m in s a l in]] And here, the first child is calculated for two years, and in 24 months, of course, it's going to be a much larger sum than 12. That's one thing. The other one. Read carefully about inflation. I think that those who have drafted the bill have done the right thing and that other bills should also be prepared in this way. The president is proposing a non-specific figure that will not fall under inflation, but he's proposing multiples to the minimum of living. And the minimum of living, when we're in the State Budget Act, we're taking inflation into account at this minimum of living. So once again, I emphasize that the law is fairly professional and no loss, and I'm especially talking to mothers and parents who want to give birth to children, and on the contrary, it's going to be a pretty significant increase. In this regard, I ask that, honourable colleagues, support the President's proposal to amend the Ukrainian Law on State aid to a family with children. [[on the payment of childbearing assistance]] [[Registration number 7521]] We have a friendly vote, we all vote. [[16:22:27]] For 351 Thank you. I'd like to ask the profile committee to deal with it as quickly as possible so that we can actually put these proposals into practice somewhere, starting in the second quarter. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the order of payment of services provided by natural monopolies is under consideration. [[Registration number 7420]] Can we do it in a reduced procedure? We can if there's support. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[16:23:16]] For 224 Offer supported. Makuha Vladimir Alexiyovich, Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Prepare Martinek.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u26	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The bill, which you suggest, provides that the new building, reconstruction, and technical refurbishment of the electrical facilities involved in connecting the electrical installations of the owner to the point where the electrical installation of the customer is connected, is provided by the owner of the network at the expense of the cost of joining. The need for the introduction of fees for connection is due to the fact that the installed electricity tariffs do not provide for the cost of energy transmissions for the new construction, reconstruction and maintenance of electricity networks and the maintenance of the current order will require a substantial increase in energy-efficient company tariffs and will result in an increase in tariffs for all consumer categories. It is obtained as a fee for the associated costs has a purpose and accounts for a separate distribution account and will be used exclusively for the new construction, reconstruction, and maintenance of the electrical networks of the owner associated with the provision of connection services. With a view to solving the social problems of consumers, the draft law stipulates that, in the case of electricity networks, social protection facilities, health care facilities, educational and preschool facilities, which are financed exclusively from state or local budgets, as well as individual housing with a combined capacity of up to 15 kilowatts for buildings equipped with electrical and electrical equipment, and up to five kilowatts for all other buildings, the cost of connection will not be charged. [[or]] Also, the cost of joining those facilities that provide for the placement of a housing fund for social purposes is decreasing in proportion to the size of the housing fund for social purposes and the affordable housing to the general housing fund of the facility.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u27	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u28	One last moment. In addition, the cost of connecting alternative energy objects to electricity is included in the investment programs of the owners of electricity networks, and the objects assigned to the final part of Euro - 2012 are made by means of an investment supplement to the wholesale market price for electricity. This project has already been considered by the PEC Committee and has been supported. Please also support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u29	Thank you. Please, the committee is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u30	Dear National Deputies! The bill under consideration proposes to adjust the order of connection to electricity and gas networks, to introduce and determine the fee, to pay for connection to electricity as an additional source of financing of the investment component tariff for electricity transmission to ensure the implementation of the electricity network development programme without increasing the retail tariff for all electricity consumers, and to order payments for connection to gas networks. The legislative proposal on this issue is very urgent, since there is currently virtually no regulatory basis for how to connect to networks, as well as the determination of how much to pay for joining. Everything is now governed by a treaty between the parties, but one of the sides is a natural monopoly. Therefore, in order to prevent abuse and to protect consumer rights, the issue must be regulated by law. By adopting the proposed bill, owners of the individual barrier, i.e. the population, will have the benefit of not paying for the addition of buildings with a capacity of up to 15 kilowatts for electricity and electricity and up to 5 kilowatts for other buildings. The rest of consumers will have a clear legislative base on how to connect to the network and how much they pay for it. It has to be noted that a number of comments have been made to the project by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, but they can be taken into account in the drafting of the bill. The Committee on Fuel and Energy, following discussions, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in the first reading on the basis of which it asked for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u31	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Please, Zarubinsky Oleg. Get ready for Kirilenko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u32	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, I personally have a double view of this legislative initiative. There is a clear positive regarding the amendment to article 18 of the Law on Electricity. Basically, this has been said a little bit, I'd like to emphasize that. That the builder of roads, bridges, other objects, organizes and transports air and underground electrical networks, thermal networks, and other electrical objects, the owner of buildings, or networks of other objects. That's fair. Of course, this change to article 18 is correct. You want to build, you have to take some responsibility and put your share into what's already in the electrical plan, because it's been either dismantled or transferred and so on. But why a double attitude? There is article 25 of the Law on Electricity, and listen to the bill. It is proposed to exclude the situation of article 25, where electricity consumers are entitled to compensation for the costs associated with the construction of their networks, according to the technical conditions issued by electricity companies. That is, if, according to current legislation, the person who does this on his own initiative is compensated for it. And the bill proposes to rule that out. Thus, an additional burden falls upon him. In principle, if you look purely from a legal point of view, this is a narrowing of consumer rights. Yes or no? Yeah, it's a limitation of rights. So that's the position. Are there any positives in this bill or not? Obviously, it can be accepted as a basis. But some of the observations, including the Science and Technology Administration, have to be taken into account, or I want to say again, it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u33	Ivan Kirilenko. Vladimir Bondarenko gives the floor. Please. Carmazine is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u34	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. Dear friends, we remember not so far from history when the Yanukovich government conducted similar things through the NCRE and the Ministry of Energy. In due time, a group of National Deputies, consisting of Ostap Semerak, and some others, and I also addressed Minenergo during the work of Yulia Timoshenko, and asked to see why, for example, for one kilowatt joining in Kyivska, they took a thousand bracelets, in Ivano-Frankowishka, 5,000 bracelets, and in the Cherniew region, 200 bracelets. It turns out that this is really being resolved by those companies that now own energy, these energy companies. And they decided that they were raising money for some construction project and they were starting to tease citizens who were joining the network. All these networks were built by the citizens themselves. They paid for it, and then they waited until they decided to join. We have a unique situation today when this corrupt scheme is being renewed, which was canceled by the government of Yulia Timoshenko. The point is that today natural monopolies, including energy distribution companies, have become a system of mistreatment of citizens. Build up at your own expense, put it into operation. Then they will balance it with you, and you will prove to be insolvent. One day in the Kyiv region is shut down, I have thousands of statements, Kivoblanergo has an organization that just terrorizes the population. And today it gives on behalf of the new authority. And it discredits this power, from a political point of view, I should be happy that people today hate this power, hate Chivoblanergo, and more will hate it when this law is passed, because it gives us the right again today to strengthen the system of violence against citizens. It's just with the gas grids. So, dear friends, let's still postpone this law. It is not to be supported, it is to be worked out for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u35	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u36	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, the further I look at the rule of law under the leadership of Mikola Janović Azarov, the more I see that this government becomes a government with the service of oligarchs. Because of what our colleague, the previous speaker, Bondarenko, has said, what has upset our colleague Zarubinski, who has said a double attitude. Of course, you're going to have a double attitude, colleague, because you're going to be changing six laws right now, which is going to be the basic ones: the Master Code, the Electricity Act, the Natural Monopolies Act, the Pipeway Transport, the Pipeway Planning and Construction Act, the Natural Gas Market Principles, and none of these proposals are going to benefit that nation. What is more, it referred to article 25, and article 18, you have issued the suggestions? Look, please, part three, which was, and part three, which is now being proposed in the new edition. The cost of building them in size and order set up by the Cabinet of Ministers was reimbursed in the 18th article. It was written with 25 articles called "The Rights of Consumers of Electric Energy." Finally, a new article in article 14 of the prime article, which seems to me to explain a great deal. It's called "The Pay for Connecting Gas Facilities to Gas Networks." New construction, reconstruction and so on — pay, pay, pay. That's what this law can be called. By the way, my colleagues used to call it Kivoblanergo. What do you think Odessablanergo is doing better? This is because the owners are not in the territory of Ukraine. People go off all the time, fights all the time. I'm against this law and I'm proposing that it be rejected, as the Science and Technology Administration is proposing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u37	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal of a profile committee on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the organization of payment of services provided by natural monopolies. Please vote. [[16:36:16]] For 253 The law was passed in the first reading. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on insider information. [[Registration number 7330]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:36:49]] For 212 Supported. Reported to the Head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market, Dmitry Mikhajlovich. Please, two minutes. Prepare Prosulov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u38	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on insider information developed by the State Securities and Stock Market Commission. [[Registration number 7330]] The bill is designed to eliminate the shameful practice of abuse through insider activity and to enhance the protection of investor rights through a clearer legislative settlement of issues related to insider information. In addition, the drafting of the bill is related to the need to implement European legislation in the field of prevention of the use of insider information. In particular, adaptation to the European Parliament Directive of 28 January 2003 on insider activity and market manipulation. But before the recommendations are made by the Financial Action Task Force to combat money-laundering, which requires criminalizing insider trading and ensuring that the law is pre-emptive. [[FATF]] The bill thus provides for amendments to articles 39, 44 and 45 of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets to clarify the terminology of the notion of “publishment of insider information”, “insider information” and “insiders”; a clear definition of what kind of information belongs to insideric and legislative settlement of matters of the moment of loss of insider status. With a view to clarifying the rules that provide for criminal, administrative responsibility and the establishment of financial sanctions for legal persons using insider information, the bill proposes to amend article 232-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, articles 163-9 of the Code on Administrative Offences. In addition, the bill proposes to sanction the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u39	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u40	to comply with the FATF recommendations by predicting punishment for the illegal use of insider information in the form of willlessness. In view of the above, please support the draft Ukrainian Law amending the laws on insider information in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u41	Thank you. Please, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Prasolov Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u42	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! The bill proposes to amend certain articles of the Code on Administrative Offences and the Penal Code, while strengthening sanctions for misuse of insider information, clarifying certain provisions of the Codes by aligning them with the Securities and Stock Market Act. The Law on the Regulation of the Securities Market and the Securities Act are also being amended. First of all, these changes are aimed at resolving the details and constituents of insider information, the use and dissemination of such information in the securities and derivatives market, the activities of persons with insider information, and the creation of an insider database, etc. The Chief Research and Expert Office made a significant comment on the project and recommended that it be sent for further refinement. However, the Fin monitoring Service has supported the bill and considers it extremely important to adopt it. In view of the draft discussion at the meeting on 2 February, the Committee decided to recommend the adoption of the bill as a basis. I would also like to say separately that the Committee has also decided to set up a working group to finalize the bill with the participation of people's deputies, representatives of the Securities Commission, the State Service, Finmonitoring and other public authorities with a view to finalizing the bill by second reading. Therefore, I ask you, my distinguished colleagues, to support the decision of our committee and to adopt this bill on first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u43	Thank you. Yes, who wants to share in the discussion? Besides Arjewithin, are they desirable? You don't? Sign up. You've got competitors. Yes, please, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, the two speakers on this issue have made a very reasoned presentation of the law. It really involves two main things: the first, it adapts our legislation to international law, and the second, I would refer this law to a series of anti-corruption laws. Therefore, there are indeed issues that require a settlement. I am sure that we will find a compromise on second reading, so please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u45	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u46	Thank you. I'd like to have derivatives, insiders, issuers and other words that people don't know about translated into Ukrainian, but I'm actually referring to Boluri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u47	Bolura, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u48	Indeed, it is vital that we keep order in the Fund’s market and securities. In fact, it's very important to understand what insider information is when it's published. In my opinion, this law is very and very underworked, as punishments are expected to be very serious in general, and there is no clear definition: who refers to the Insider category, which is "insider information" when it comes to the period of publication. That's why I'm here to work on it and really, really seriously. And I'd like to ask you to join the commission to cooperate with the opposition of the candidates as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u49	Stojko's handing over Arjevitina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u50	Dear National Deputies! Indeed, the initiative to avoid illicit use of insider information is right. But if you look at the changes in the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code, and those who read the conclusions. a report by the Scientific and Expert Office, which states that this is significantly exacerbating existing norms and is contradictory. For example. Today, if a person accidentally receives insider information, he too will be punished, including by being deprived of his will. In today’s legislation, if, as a result of the illegal use of insider information and other human beings, there is considerable damage in the code. The Criminal Code clearly identifies the cost of this damage, i.e. the total amount. The legislation that is proposed proposes to introduce new terms is "significant size", "significant damage", "significant damage". Who will determine the absolute sums? And what are they? With regard to criminal liability offered for the illegal use of insider information, such as the deprivation of liberty up to five years with the confiscation of property. Well, we know that this harsh sanction applies to us in Ukraine when there was a deliberate murder, a change in constitutional order, a change in state borders and so on. I think it's a very big punishment that's being offered at the level of these crimes. I'd like to emphasize once again, just pay attention, our committee has now proposed to create a working group to work. I think if we accept it in the first reading, this group will be limited to the first reading and 116 articles. So I think it would be a good idea to start working with this group and instead of giving the already worked version and not wasting time, as they say, with the back number of something to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u51	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal of a committee of profile to adopt a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on insider information on the basis of the first reading. [[Registration number 7330]] Please vote. [[16:47:08]] For 251 Thank you, copy. Although, if possible, I ask the committee to listen to Kirilczuk's thoughts. And even with any bill, let's say as few foreign words as possible, especially in the laws, that would be better. Because not all of us can now explain what insider activity is, but what those for whom we adopt laws will say. So I would ask, really, to have that in mind. The next bill, 3495, is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's electoral financing laws. The author of Anatoly Grizzenko's bill. But he sent us a letter about the repeal of the bill. I am voting on the author's motion to withdraw Bill 3495. Please be supportive. [[16:48:18]] For 269 The bill is rejected. The following Bill 6401 is a draft Law on a special regime for investment activities in priority development areas in the Odessa region. The author of the Barwinenko bill asks us to postpone the consideration of the bill. Please be supportive. [[16:49:02]] For 243 The bill's author's proposal is supported. The same request was made by the author of the Barwinenka Vitaliy Dmitrovitch Bill on Bill 6402 – to amend certain Ukrainian laws on taxation in connection with the introduction of a special regime of investment activities in the Odessa region. Well, of course, your honorary colleagues, if there is no Odessa Region Priority Development Act yet, there can be no law on tax changes. I'm asking you to support Barwinenko's proposal to transpose Bill 6402. Chechchev asks the cook to vote. [[16:49:59]] For 257 The author's proposal is supported. The bill is being transposed, its consideration. We're looking at a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Regional Development Promotion. [[on the expansion of groups of territories that are considered to be depressed and given such status]] [[Registration number 6519]] The author of the Efraemov Bill, Alexander Sergiyovich. We can do it in a nutshell, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please support the proposal with a reduced procedure. [[16:50:46]] For the 220. Please. The supported offer is 220. Alexander Sergiyovich, on the rostrum. Please report the bill. Prepare Plednik from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, I have prepared a large statement on this issue, because it is important for many regions both in eastern and western Ukraine. But I think we all remember the bill. And the bottom line is this. That, in its time, the State had decided to close the mines. Under the closure of the mine, appropriate project and estimated documentation was developed to address all issues related to the closure of the mine. The shafts have been closed, and all remaining issues remain unresolved. Today, those settlements where miners used to work in their mines are closing down schools, and hospitals are closing down. The terricons that are there burn, smoke, burn. The water's almost gone. People are in a terrible state. It is proposed that these territories should only be included in those areas where mines are closed and for which the State has failed to fulfil its obligations, in the category of territories that are depressed with an appropriate solution to the issue of the depressive territories. I would like to support this bill. We took him to the hall once. At that time, the State had no adequate resources to address those problems. Today both the Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee and the Cabinet of Ministers conclude that the bill can be adopted on first reading. If any questions arise, we'll finish it up to the second reading, although there's nothing to work on. In fact, we give hope to the people in these regions that the State turns to them and sees the problems they have and is ready to resolve those issues. That is why I would ask all colleagues, not a political bill here, it is exclusively social in nature, to support and adopt it on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u53	Thank you. Please, Mr. Plotnikov Alexy Vitaliyovich, head of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u54	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 11 January 2011 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Promoting Regional Development, introduced by the People's Deputies of Ephraim. [[on the expansion of groups of territories that are considered to be depressed and given such status]] [[Registration number 6519 from 14.06.2010]] The bill addresses the socio-economic and environmental problems of mining cities and villages affected by the elimination of coal enterprises. In particular, the bill provides for amendments to the Regional Development Promotion Act, namely, to be added to groups that divide. depressive areas, populated areas that have been affected by the closure of coal enterprises since 1996, and by development indicators that identify areas of depressive, populated areas where coal enterprises have been eliminated since 1996, but have not been fully completed with measures to address socio-economic and environmental issues envisaged by appropriate eradication projects. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded on 7 September 2010 with a number of suggestions and comments on the project that could be taken into account in the drafting of the second reading bill. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Law on the Promotion of Regional Development, which was submitted by the People's Deputy of Ephraim to be adopted as a basis in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u55	Thank you. Who wants to share in the discussion? Sign up then. Yes, please, Vasil Kravchuk, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u56	Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u57	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko. Alexandrovsky's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, we had a lively discussion today at the faction meeting on this bill. The board of experts has previously decided not to support it. I'm going to say to Alexander Sergiyovich that the very first factor he called was not political and do not politicize this bill. This bill was introduced into the hall during our previous government, but then extraordinary politicalism and speculation on mining did not allow the decision to be taken. Therefore, we support that we do not politicize the subject, for the problem really is. But the faction’s colleagues emphasized such a subject. Dearly beloved, I am addressing the author, my colleague Alexander Sergiyovich, believe me, when to look at the territory now in the color of Ukraine, as the situation today is economic and social, the colleagues today rightly said. The Policía Zone, Polissa, are four areas, extremely depressed, extremely depressed. Today, we have destroyed animals. We see flooding, wetlands, so there's no growth in vegetation. There is, unfortunately, no other work in these regions. Plus, the Chernobyl problems that attach to these areas are averting the real development of the real agrarian business, not just the agrarian business. Hersonianism is the South: wetlands, salinization, submergedness is also a huge problem. Therefore, if it is good for this bill to be adopted, we believe that before the second reading, although we have 116 articles of the Rules, but to expand the list of areas that need really serious State aid. We understand that today is the mining land. And I've got two districts in my district, and I've got mine, and I've got mine, and I've got the mining area, and the western Donbas region, and the yellow waters region, you know what yellow waters mean to us. But we know what the problems are, and you know it. So the mining region is right, but let's think about the whole of Ukraine. So I would ask for a second reading, regardless of our strict regulatory requirements, to expand the list of areas in need of serious help. We'll support the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u59	Alexandrovska Alla, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u60	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Indeed, we will soon expand this concept throughout Ukraine. Not surprisingly, the restoration of capitalism has been going on for almost 20 years, and we are blubbering the results of the construction of capitalism in Ukraine. When I was a member of the Energy Committee, we had a retreat, we went down to the mines. We have lavas that don't develop, lavas that have great coal. We have huge reserves of coal that are not being developed. We don't have the mines and the lava. We don't even have work to do. I basically support this bill on first reading, but I think we're really going to finish it because we need to refer to the depression zones and the cities, at least the regional importance in which all production is actually stopped. In the city of Izum, the problem of the Izum thermal repair plant is not resolved by the Government and today, it has not been resolved by the orange Government yesterday. The Buyer's Lithuanian factory was looted, destroyed. First-majskichimprom is an enterprise that has given life to the entire city. These issues have not been resolved in orange, unfortunately they are not being resolved today. To conclude, please hand over the remaining time to the MP from the Pecklusenko Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u61	Well, there's no such thing as, excuse me, a broadcast. I'll give him one minute later, because. Although Smith's signed up. Please. No, I'm sorry, no, there's 15 seconds left. What can he say in 15 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u62	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I have taken the floor today to make it true that Alexander Sergeyevich has raised this issue, not only for mining cities, mining towns and coal mining, so to speak, the working class. This is indeed an archival problem for our social, for our just, so to speak, the distribution of Ukraine's economic potential today. And the fact that these entire regions have been deprived of a normal livelihood through earning money, and that money would allow their families to feed them, of course, is a huge problem. And the State, I hope, will draw attention from the beginning of this debate today, and we must make every effort not to forget this subject, but to expand it. Why am I saying this? Because you know that, as a result of the wrong policies for privatization of public enterprises, the policies of previous Governments and presidents of Ukraine. We've got whole areas, areas, cities dying out because there's no jobs. That's what the Poles region said, where I came from. Up to 30 per cent of the labour force is abroad and is forced to seek a piece of bread. This is a huge socio-political topic on which we must work seriously today. Because we can't go on like this. Sometimes we show reports, chronicles on news, where entire cities, where entire villages are dying out. This is also true of the Crimea step zone. This is true in the areas of the Polish regions, with regard to coal mines and other regions of Ukraine. It's time for Ukraine to pay attention and do something about it. Because people need help. The State could no longer stay away from that problem. Therefore, I also associate myself with the position that, in spite of article 16 of the Ukrainian Rules, the Supreme Council Rules, the law, yes, we need to talk seriously about this issue and give serious attention. Please join us on this subject and address it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to be the shooters of those who violate the law. No 116 articles will be violated. You want to write other laws. Because you can now agree that this law will not be adopted to be written in a new way. Please, Karmazin. He wanted to say the word, but he changed his mind. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u64	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, surely I will uphold this law. Although it's not written properly, first. Secondly, there's a note of why we're only asking questions about individual population locations, where closed-circuit industries are located. We need to ask the questions a little bit wider. We have Borislav Lviv district. It's a wasteland. It's all gone! We have Kallus, the region of Ivano-Frankiv. The voids of sulfur. We have the Yavorovsk district, Novoyavorovský, Kalš – the Ivano-Frankivsk region. We have the Yellow Waters, we have the Pillar. You also have to add other genealogies and expand it. And I think this is possible without violating article 116 of the Rules. Now I'd like you and I not to be working from all over the region, from all over Ukraine. And it's obviously going to be a soul for those who do everything they can to make poverty a nation because of price increases, the illegal withdrawal of capital. Those black lists that are now being published by the European media. There are 118 officials from three branches of power, particularly with regard to the Ukrainian government, there are Azarov, Kljev, Kolesnikov, Tikhov, Grishchenko, Tobacco, Zločevsky, Lavrinović, Jaroshenko, Ježel, Baloga, there and the Supreme Council officials, there and the Constitutional Court, there and the Central Election Commission, all those who joined in violating the right of opposition, the right to freedom of speech in Ukraine. That's why the opposition will uphold this law. I ask that you pay attention to those lists that are going to Europe today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u65	Thank you. One minute, please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u66	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. Since I haven't seen the lists, I haven't read them, I'll be on the subject. He was now trying to see what is the Antony of the word “depressive” for “progressive”, it is clear that it is “regressive”, and for “depressive” is “progressive”. Could it be a thriving area if, when it was formed, the so-called national economic complex formed one budgetary enterprise such as a mine, such as a mine, when a mono-production system was formed. Of course, if this mono-production doesn't exist anymore, then the flourishing territory can't, in principle, be. And that's why even from this logic where there's the only business that people have been working on and that's giving people a job and an opportunity to live for all families, if it doesn't work, this region, this area is becoming fundamentally not prosperous, it's depressing. So I think, from the point of view of common sense, even the moral attitude of those who are not to blame for what they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u67	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u68	Who are not to blame for the fact that the mine is closed, where they are already working in the third generation, they need to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u69	Please, Hellcat, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I support Karmazin's colleague, who said that we should not stop on coal mines in this very necessary and timely law, because we have Stepnoorsk in Zaporozhye County, where there is a magnetic mine. And this mine has also been depressed, and the marganan has not been mined for decades. 20,000 people have become hostages to this situation. Therefore, I would like to extend the second reading. As for the depressive territories, I believe that there should be parliamentary hearings, and there must be ideology, there must be a concept of the withdrawal of these depressing territories from depression. I am sure that we can develop and implement such a national programme here in Parliament with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u71	Thank you. Once again, dear colleagues, I emphasize. If we listen to almost every single one of you and expand the depressed territories, believe me, none of the areas will remain to be included in this list. So come on, be careful and be more reticent. This is about adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Promotion of Regional Development. [[on the expansion of groups of territories that are considered to be depressed and given such status]] [[Registration number 6519]] Please vote. [[17:08:02]] For 323 Copy that. We are considering the draft Law on security and public order during mass sports and physical health. [[Registration number 7137]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. [[17:08:38]] For 209 Supported. People's deputy Prasololov. Get ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u72	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Preparation and holding at the appropriate level of the Euro-2012 final football championship is one of the strategic tasks of our State, which will be of great importance in building a positive image of Ukraine and will give a strong enough impetus for the socio-economic development of our country. One of the main requirements of UEFA for the use of stadiums for competition is the compliance of infrastructure and technology, organizational activities with the safety and public order requirements of the organization. Today, Ukrainian legislation needs to be improved, particularly in order to ensure the safety of public order during mass sports and physical and health activities. The bill therefore sets out, inter alia, the basic principles of public policy in the area of security and public order during mass sports and physical and physical health activities, establishes specific public regulations for public safety during mass sports and physical and health activities, establishes requirements for the organizers of mass sports events and for the tenants of their places of safety in public order, establishes safety requirements for places of mass sporting activities, lays down rules of interaction between different entities during the preparation and implementation of mass events, establishes rules of conduct and responsibility for the conduct of sick persons and viewers. On the basis of the above, and given the importance of the proposed bill, I ask the distinguished people's deputies to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u73	Thank you. Yes, please, from the committee will have the word of his former member to the present moment, namely, the secretary of the Committee on Legal Protection, Behalery Ananiyovich, because he was there at the time. He's old, I say, but when the bill was being drafted, he was still on that committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, the idea of this bill is that it is time to divide the functions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs or the system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in order to ensure the protection of public order and security and the so-called stewards, who directly protect public order and security in stadiums and sports. More loyally, in the middle of sports buildings and so on. This is the main idea, as it were, of the bill itself. Many questions arise and ask and say: Is this appropriate? It might be easier, make appropriate changes to the Police Act, other legislative acts, and thus solve the problem. But for information, Britain today has six laws that regulate the protection of public order in sports facilities. Belgium has the right law to ensure order and so is called football law, Italy has such bills and so on. Therefore, given that we are taking the final part of the Euro-2012 final in 2012, the committee considers it appropriate to agree with the authors of this bill and to adopt it as a law, since for the future all sporting measures, cultural measures must be taken to ensure public order and security on a completely different legal basis. The committee therefore requests that the bill be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u75	Thank you for your report. Shall we vote? Sign up. Bondarenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u76	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends are certainly required to keep the stadiums in order. Well, of course, it's not the kind of method we saw on TV when the omonovers were trampling boys and girls there, beating them with sticks and all that. It takes the police to get rid of it and create such special services in the stadiums, it's perfectly normal. In addition, they will not have a sign of arms, and they will have a few other ways to reassure the crowd. The only thing I wish we didn't give God this law to turn into a method of political struggle. And by organizing local sports competitions at the expense of this, they would ban any meeting there and all that. So I think in the first reading it can be adopted, but once again I emphasize that it needs to be cut off from the political possible flight, because we're just going to have some opposition, so they're starting to repair the area, they're putting the tree in the middle of summer, that's a tree. A tree is put in the middle of summer, and then something like that is done that doesn't go into common sense and logic. And, in principle, the direction is right, and once again, I emphasize, it cannot be politicized. Moreover, the levels of these sports are also different. The euro is great, it's the honor of the state, and some other competitions are whatever the municipalities provide, let them provide rural councils that it's a rural football game. So that again we don't create a huge organization that's going to operate everywhere. Everyone must have such groups. They will not work every day, but at the time of these competitions they should be on check. In the first reading, we support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u77	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u78	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, the Shahtar won the Roma yesterday, and there was no special law on security and public order. You know, in Italy, it's much worse for cowards, much dirtier streets and everything. For those of you who haven't been to Italy, I'm just explaining. A knife in Kiev or other cities spoken of. Because of that, I'm asking myself questions, including you. And what if tomorrow there's another champion: with regbi, women's football, basketball and everything else -- we're going to adopt special laws under each of them, or maybe our laws are universal in nature, or maybe our laws have some kind of subject matter to regulation. I counted, now this bill takes 12 pages, and the scientific and scientific authorities have 14 pages of obstetric text. The basic conclusion is that this law does not have a single subject of legislative regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be clear that we have the Police Act, that we have the Code of Administrative Violations, that we have the Criminal Code, that we have the Law on Physical Culture and Sports, that we have other laws that allow us to conduct this Euro perfectly properly without what we have done now, when we need to apply the laws, the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code, which is now investigating where the billions buried in Europe are already investigating why purchases are being made into one participant, are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u79	Garbage Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u80	Dear National Deputies! I agree with the logic of this bill in the sense that it is time to look at the problems that arise in our society, and in general to see what is happening in the global arena now in the face of some kind of mass action, we need to look at where and what problems we may be facing or where we need to settle them, in my opinion. I agree with Mr. Carmazin in what we have, indeed, both the Bill of Militia and the Administrative Code and the Penal Code, where there is no doubt that any action is subject to both the organizers and the participants, if there is no breach of public order or order, there is a certain responsibility, there is a certain classification of this responsibility. But I don't understand why we're introducing a separate law into one subject, and I'm paying attention to the conduct of mass sports and physical activities. And tell me, please, we don't have mass religious, we don't have mass demonstrations when people are conducting, miners, other people out there, unions and so on? What does it mean that we cannot have any opposition or wrongdoing? We don't have culture, we don't have concerts or anything else. Then let's do this, if we have to go back today to the question of the solution that it's time to settle some issues, let's actually take the mass activities that arise today or may arise, and let's take a look at what standards we either add, or include, or settle all of these issues. So I would like to invite the author of the bill to a second reading or to add or expand this list. We can't pass a separate law every time we go west. That's the wrong way to think about it. So I express the point that we should support it in the first reading. As for the second reading, we need to work hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u81	Yes, the discussion is over. Of course, those who spoke. Yeah, there was no Communist faction? One minute Beales, please. And you reported it. Dear colleagues, those who spoke, were right. Those who said they needed law were right. And those who said that this law would be worth making changes to other laws. The right ones and the right ones. But I think we'll do the right thing if we vote for a separate law, based on what we're about to do in 2012. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Law on Security and Public Order in the course of mass sports and physical health. [[Registration number 7137]] Please vote. [[17:20:49]] For 258. At least. We are considering a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the transfer of disabled cars in the form of humanitarian aid. [[children with disabilities]] [[Registration number 6266]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:21:29]] For 223 Supported. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u82	Basil Krawczuk, Faction "BUT" – "Fatherhood". Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, your opinion is on a draft Ukrainian Law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the transfer of disabled cars in the form of humanitarian aid. [[children with disabilities]] On December 15, 2009, at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a second reading of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Some of Ukraine’s Automobile Insurance Laws was discussed. In accordance with the transcript of the plenary session, Amendment No. 4 was made jointly by me and the national deputy Martiniuk Adam Ivanovic to the draft Ukrainian Law, which provides for the addition of Article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, part two, which stipulates that after the death the disabled car, as well as a car recognized by the humanitarian aid provided by the disabled for less than 10 years, may be transferred free of charge to the property of the members of his family in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[No. 2740]] [[of 10.07.2008]] [[disabled child]] The amendment was supported by 319 national deputies, and the amendment was taken into account. However, the above-mentioned amendment for technical reasons did not become part of the current edition of the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. The main purpose of the proposed bill is to remove the technical disagreements that arose when the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities was adopted, which resulted from the ambiguous treatment of the transfer of a car issued as a humanitarian aid through work and social protection of the population to the property of the family of the disabled person who died. In addition to this bill, No. 2740 was added as a new article 11-1 to the Law on Humanitarian Aid. The position of the adjusted and supported part of the second article.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u83	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u84	on part two of article 38 of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine creates a legal coalition with the provisions of article 11-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Humanitarian Aid. Therefore, the bill also proposes to amend article 11-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Humanitarian Aid, which will correspond to article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u85	Thank you. Have a seat. From the committee of M. Ulyana Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u86	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons on 30 June last year reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the transfer of disabled cars, children with disabilities in the form of humanitarian aid submitted by the National Deputy Kravchuk. As already stated by the author of the legislative initiative, the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Laws on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities of Ukraine and on Humanitarian Aid in order to introduce free transfer of cars to members of the family of a deceased invalid, including recognized humanitarian aid, which he has used for less than 10 years and to put it into effect since publication. In addition, I would like to point out that since the registration of the bill by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by law of 11.05. In 2010, N 2171, part two of article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities, has already made appropriate changes regarding the free transfer of all cars, including those recognized as humanitarian aid, after the death of a disabled child, to the property of family members. Their families. The issue of the future fate of the technical and other means of rehabilitation that remain after the death of the disabled is also addressed. According to the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, this law can be adopted as a basis. According to the Committee on Budgets, this law can only be passed on January 1, 2012. And we agree. And the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u87	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u88	I think it's necessary to remove the existing legislature. Therefore, our committee believes that this bill can be introduced, voted on as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u89	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up. Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u90	Thank you. The Timoshenko-Batychina-Kloka-Kloka-Kloka. In fact, Adam Ivanovich made a reasonable offer in due time. Most of the hall supported it. And let's go back to logic. If this aid is humanitarian, even if it is a foreign machine that has become disabled and the family has lost on it — in part, care — much has been spent. And especially after she died, where she could be acted. It's got to be given to someone, they'll pay the tax, they'll pay the tax, they'll pay the tax, they'll pay the tax, they'll give it to someone else. People are good, let's be, in fact, decent people and leave these lands to this family, that car that still remains after the death of the owner of this car. I don't think politics should be here, but they will unanimously support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u91	Please, Stoyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u92	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, indeed, there should be no double standards here. It's about cars, we all know where our disabled living are, let God give them a long time to live. But there's one thing I'm worried about here, and it's about the cars that the disabled guy was driving, let's say, up to 10 years old. What if he's been driving for 10 and a half years? Where do you think you're going? So in the second reading, we have to fix this. And of course the law has to be passed. And I would like our hall to be really united here, because this is about people who need our daily help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u93	Please, Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u94	Thank you. I support this bill and I ask you to give the floor to the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u95	Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u96	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I took the floor to confirm that. What my colleague Kravchuk said. I remember very well that day, the plenary session, when we voted on the relevant bill in the second reading, and I remember Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk and colleagues, and I, including myself on this subject, made it absolutely clear what the legal position should be. And we voted that way, more than 300 deputies. I remember that very well. I don't know. So, I'm sorry, this isn't about the Colosseum at all, it's about that. I'm sorry we voted for what we're now proposing. So I propose to vote in favour of this bill, either as a basis, and to restore justice and clarity, because we voted for it, I remember well. One more moment. The only one, and Adam Ivanovich, the honourable colleagues, let's think about it here, so that it doesn't apply to those Mercedes new enough that are registered to the disabled. You know what this is about. So if this is a transport for people with disabilities, well, let's say, middle class or lower class, you can understand that there's not just manipulations with the registration of these machines. And that's the way to vote for it, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u97	Thank you. Zybenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u98	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear colleagues, I would also like to stress once again that my colleagues have already mentioned that you and I have worked with you in this room and voted. In large numbers, it is a matter of eliminating disagreements between laws that regulate the situation in the same sphere, for the Law on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities provides for this, and the Law on Humanitarian Assistance, which also regulates the same relationship, does not provide for this. And Cabinet Regulation No. 999, there's a third problem at all. So once again, I would like to stress that this document should be voted on. And more than that, when the author of the bill was speaking, he was talking about the rule of the law that a car could be transferred. Dear colleagues, there can be no rule in the law "may be passed on", "provided" so that there is no double interpretation. So that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question that we are considering today is extremely sensitive. In fact, here we reminded my colleagues, and you and I in the session room have fought hard, unfortunately too hard, and we haven't figured out who forged the law, because we have, in fact, supported my amendment, the amendment of Kravczuk and others. And then when the law came out from under the pen, which was set up by the profile committee, it didn't show up there. We also tried to create commissions, and we tried to do something else, but unfortunately, we didn't do anything at the time, except for one -- we started doing this new way. And if I'm not mistaken, somewhere in May last year, we made these changes to the law -- the law became law. But unfortunately, the letters that I think are coming to you, including to me by adopting the law, we still haven't decided anything. Because the law, as it is now proposed, was the norm "in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers" and after we passed the law, the Cabinet of Ministers has established such an order that the law has been rewritten, i.e. no one receives cars for free, unfortunately, to this day. So, unfortunately, this is the situation. Therefore, I urge that if we vote in favour of him, we should definitely vote with the exception of the words “in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers”. The law determines that they are passed. And there's no order in the Cabinet anymore, because, once again, I'm underlining that I've defined Kabmin, and I think we'll be back soon to why the Cabinet is rewriting the laws. I understand that Kabin wants to make some money on these poor people with disabilities, and if you have to leave the car, then I have one of those families that he wants to leave behind. The car, you have to pay more than 10,000 dollars, and this car has been in over 10 years, and this car is far from vip class, and so on, you know what cars give to the disabled. So unfortunately, forgeries, I find this bitterly, because I feel it on my own skin because I was active among the deputies, including those who stand up for this problem, and what turned out to be the adoption of our law. That's why I, my dear fellows, please. If we now vote on the second reading, I hope that we will support this law, necessarily take the rule “in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers”, because the Cabinet of Ministers, I have already told you what order it sets. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill 6266, which amends certain Ukrainian laws on the transfer of disabled cars in the form of humanitarian aid. [[children with disabilities]] Please vote. [[17:35:41]] For 180. Please, by the factions. Regional Party – 6, Fatherland – 93, Our Ukraine – 24, Communists – 24, Reforms for the Future – 10, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, let's do some work and take into account what I've said to take back the order of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote on the proposal for a recast. Take away what I'm talking about. [[17:36:29]] For 344 It's going to work. Dear colleagues, those who are now very actively criticizing opponents, do not speak very much, for read the transcript that your government used to say when we were voting. He was a mountain against our accepting him. You don't have to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't call the wolf out of the woods. Once again, I know this problem very well compared to you. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation is under consideration in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. [[Registration number 7065]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:37:30.]] For 210 Supported. Please, Natalia Yuriovna. You have four minutes because you're from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u100	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I invite you to take note of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Law on the Business Authorisation System. [[No.7065]] The purpose of the bill is to bring the other legislation of Ukraine into line with the Authorisation System Act. Adam Ivanovich has raised the question several times in this room that deregulation and the authorization system must be approached in a comprehensive manner. Thus, we have prepared a law that must be finalized by those bills that are unfortunately adopted but are not working in our country today. You know that the Authorisation System Act was passed in 2005, and you also know that the positive effect of this law is not being achieved because it is in conflict with other laws. And that is the basis for corruption today, because there is one rule under one law and another there is another. And every official does what he thinks is necessary. What does the Authorisation Act provide? Next: The need to obtain a permit document shall be determined by the authorising authority authorized to issue, pay or free of charge, the date of the decision to issue or refuse such a document, the list of grounds for refusal or cancellation. I recall that this law establishes the procedure for the work of the licensing authorities and the procedure for issuing permits. The law stipulates that only Ukrainian laws and no one else can determine it. The law thus destroys the possibility of creating additional permits or special conditions for their extradition to the executive authorities. This right remains only with the Supreme Council. However, these rules do not work today, as no other legislation does. What am I proposing with Bill 7065? First, amend the procedure for obtaining permission to the following laws: Water Code, Air Protection Act, Animal Peace Act, Vegetation World Act, Waste Act, Red Book Ukraine. I repeat that the bill introduces technical changes and aims to improve legislation, to bring it in line with the Law on the Authorisation System in the Business Sector and to terminate today the possible manoeuvres of officials in self-determination by which law to act, and by what law, within what time frame and what permit documents to require. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt Bill 7065 as a basis. In the view of the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise, the proposals contained in the bill are useful and unfortunately not only timely but already five years late. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that our task as legislators is not simply to enact and forget laws, but to make them easy to use and to make it a real opportunity to live in this law and in the real economy. The Committee therefore proposes to adopt Bill 7065 as a basis. And please support the Committee's decision. All the inaccuracies and comments to be made by the deputies will be ready for further reading. But only after the adoption of the Act will a law adopted six years ago be fully implemented on the licensing system. And if we are to raise the issue of deregulation and reform of the permit system today, we must ensure that the laws are in force, not adopted only for statistics and only for reporting to voters. I very much hope for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u101	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovno. You were a killer. Who wants to speak? Please sign up. Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u102	Thank you. This bill has long matured. And if, in the follow-up to the Natalia Jurievna Bill on Standardization, Metrology and this, these bills really say that we are here helping entrepreneurs and simply citizens of Ukraine, not by promising, but by actually showing that business and business in Ukraine are more open even to their own, I am not talking about foreigners anymore. When we invite investors here, I see those laws even for myself, for the Ukrainians, they run like hell. So let's show that we can deregulation what we set before us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u103	Yes, Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u104	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this project is designed to amend a number of laws. And that's exactly what Mrs. Royal said, and I thank her for this, that it's a comprehensive bill, and it's a change to the Water Code, and to the Pesticides Act, agrochemicals, waste, plant world, and the free system in the field of farming. There are no changes here that I would like very sincerely, Mrs. Natale, to be about abolishing the positions of the state's seers. This is to be thought out, over all the Black Sea ports, to install the Anakii viewers that the ports saw only on television. And it's all coming down now. The cargo base is coming from Ukraine. The results are frightening. I'm asking you, let's get rid of all the permits that are being eliminated, and the positions of viewers in Ukraine in general over all the ministries, over all the departments, because that's a huge obstacle to Ukraine. As for the amendments that are in this law, I can see them very well, where they are not allowed to burn the stove. But I suggested that my time be 10 times more responsible. Sadly, we did not agree. And so we destroy the animal world, it destroys itself just as it destroys today the leadership of the state to which I want to add, which is also written down, as are those who will be banned from going to the European Union: Salamatin Dmitry Albertovich as head of Ucrobronpostachu, Valerius Ivanovich Horoshkovsky, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, Ivanyushenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, Firtash Dmitry Vasilovich and many others.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u105	Yes. Question completed. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Allowance in Economic Activities. [[Registration number 7065]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:45:58]] For-300 Copy that. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to invalidate the State registration of a legal person and a natural person who is an entrepreneur. [[Registration number 7516]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:46:34]] For 208 Supported. Please, Royal Natalia Yuriovna, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u106	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I propose to your attention the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to repeal the State Registration Certificate of the Legal Person and the Business Person. [[No. 7516]] We propose to introduce the principle that business activities in Ukraine will be carried out without a State registration certificate. Can any of you respected colleagues name any other function of the State Registration Certificate, other than the fact of the State registration? I think you'll agree with me that there is no other function in this document. Moreover, this is the only function of establishing the State registration is duplicated by other existing documents - a copy from a single register of legal entities and individuals of entrepreneurs. In addition, the information contained in the single registry is considered more reliable and can be used in a dispute with others. On the contrary, the State registration certificate protects, not the legal person from liquidation, but the businessman, the natural person from termination. Finally, the certificate can be falsified. In this case, the existence of a paper certificate of State registration only deceives about the status of the entrepreneur. It is clear that the State registration certificate is empty and nobody needs the paper today, and the confirmation of the registration by issuing such a certificate is outdated and does not correspond to the time. What is specifically proposed in Bill 7516? First, to renounce such anachronism as a State registration certificate. To establish that a statement from a single registry is the only necessary and sufficient document confirming the State registration and the status of the legal person or natural person undertaking. Second, a statement from a single registry shall be issued free of charge when registration is made, as well as in the case of changes to the constituent documents, in the case of changes to a single registry, in the case of termination of business activities, and in the event of bankruptcy in the case of the termination of a business, of a physicist by decision of the court, in the case of cancellation of the national registration of the business person. Third. We suggest that the statement from the Single Register does not require a notary certificate and is indefinite. The rules proposed by the bill would significantly reduce and simplify business. And it will be easier and cheaper for the State to work with business. Costs of strict reporting forms will disappear. It's going to make the paperwork easier, it's going to take a shorter turn in the eye of the state registration. In other words, this is one good step towards deregulation of business. The Chief Research and Expert Office does not support the adoption of project 7516. A completely different position for the members of the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise. They believe that the adoption of the amendments set out in the bill is useful and timely. The Committee therefore proposes to adopt Bill 7516 as a basis. Second, to take into account the comments made by the Scientific and Expert Office, to finalize it jointly with representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. And then you'll have to accept it as the law. Remove extra papers. I would also like to remind all of us of Churchill's words, since I have a few more seconds: “Where there are 10,000 requirements, there can be no respect for the law.” Today we have the opportunity to cancel one of those regulations and take a small step towards respect for the law. Thank you for your attention. And I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u107	Shall we discuss it? Please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u108	Please, Lipina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u109	Xenia Lapina, Party for Ukraine! As a co-author, I'm very much asking you to support this law and I want to point out that the fears expressed by science and science, as I see it, are completely groundless. In fact, today's state registration is confirmed by two papers, although, to me, it is really confirmed only by the contents of a register that has been in operation for many years and will now function under the patronage of the Ministry of Justice, which makes it an even more reliable source of information. In the modern world, registers carry basic information, and paper is anachronism that has long been abandoned in the world. Another question that we need to ask the government together and ask the government to make this register more accessible so that each counterparty or, for example, the civil-law parties in the court could contact this register in public access and get the right information to confirm any register information. Less fraud, because paper can be falsified, no matter what degree of protection there, and the State Register under Minoust's patronage is a reliable source of information. So in fact, I point out that, along with the adoption of this bill, we really need to make an effort to finally make our register as open and accessible as it is in Europe in parts of the information that should be disclosed and accessible. Thank you very much. I'm hoping for backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u110	Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, I remember one of the politicians of the Orange Ages saying, "We will create a single window for entrepreneurs." Well, no one to the only window would let go, he would walk in the door and then walk in such corridors, such doors that he had already been thrown out through the window for weeks two bets on a vote with empty pockets. And then he got some permission to do business. But that is not all. I'd like Natalia Yuriovna to introduce another bill. Natalia Yuriovna, you know, as today a man who opened this business, a small entrepreneur started working, and it didn't happen. And then he starts retreating back. He needs to go back to that door, push again, and wait six months until he's allowed to be eliminated as a private entrepreneur. That's why we support the first law, and the second law is very good, Natalia Yuriovna. I think our political power will support this because we need to simplify the principles, really. But you, Natalia Yuriovna, remember one thing that these laws deprive many officials of the possibility of living normally. You know what they'll tell you about it? But we support your offer to cut hands. Because, for example, there's this experience in England, you want to open a business, you send documents to the clerk, and in three days, you get permission. We have to look into the clerk's eyes. He'll look you in the pocket. It was in that power, it was in our power, it was us. Admit it. That's why we support this bill. And please, Natalia Yuriovna, just as a specialist to you, make another law on a simplified system of liquidation of a private enterprise if he can't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the committee's proposal, although the Chief Scientific and Expert Office proposes to reject the adoption bill as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to annul the State registration of a legal person and a natural person who is an entrepreneur. [[17:55:20]] For-286 We should now consider, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activity. [[Registration number 6660]] However, the author of the bill, colleague Pinchuk Andri Pavlovich, asked to postpone the consideration of the matter. Please support the transfer. Vote. [[17:56:14]] For 218. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand that you're obsessed with the very brilliant law that we've just passed. True, how will it be implemented? And we forgot what we were talking about. This is about transferring to the author's request the Bill 6660 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activity, on strengthening the legal and socio-economic protection of students. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. [[5:57:05]] For 257 We're back. Now I'm putting a motion to vote on the postponement of the bill. Please vote. [[17:57:28]] For 257 Thank you. The decision is supported. The same proposal for Bill 4723, the draft Law amending article 34. Are you ready? Yes, please, I continue for 15 minutes. We are considering a bill amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. [[Registration number 4723]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:58:19]] For 213 Supported. The bill's author is Sergei Volodymyrovich Vasilenko, please. Peacemaker, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u113	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, there are more than 14,000 special vehicles in the ranks of the MNS, designed to extinguish fires, eliminate the effects of accidents, floods, earthquakes, and other technological and natural disasters. In view of the fact that such a situation arose as a result of the adoption of the law on September 24, 2008, by which the MNS was denied the possibility of carrying out a notice of registration and accounting for its special means of transport. In a nutshell, I'm going to say that the Armed Forces today are MNPs, they're specialized, and they have black numbers. But. Because the rescue service of MNS is a special form that performs complex tasks every day to protect the population of areas from technological and natural emergencies. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council supports this bill in the first reading that I would ask you to do and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u114	Yes, please, from the committee of Mikhail Ivanovich Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications at its meeting on 14 April 2010, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. The author's team proposes to amend article 34 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Code, which aims to introduce a well-known registration and the calculation of the means of transport of the Civil Protection Operations Service. As explained in the Explanatory Note, the purpose of the bill is to ensure an uninterrupted exchange of technical means, to increase the level of road safety in this service, and to save public funds. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of April 1, 2010, notes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine does not support this bill, and the introduction of an additional noticeable registration is considered to be inappropriate. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not support the bill. Taking into account the above and the outcome of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the prescribed draft law of Ukraine should be returned to the subjects of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u116	Thank you. Who but Bondarenko insists on the performance? Please, Vladimir Bondarenko, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u117	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Of course, the Ministry of Interior's monopoly on all matters relating to State inspection, including public transportation, is a monopoly. This complicates the work of the MNS and the military today, where huge amounts of transport are found. This morning, when I opened the Internet, I saw a unique report from the DAI of a southern city called Berdjanska. There was a meeting where instructions were given, how many protocols to bring in, gasoline, and money. It was clearly indicated that there should be one protocol for transporting dangerous goods, cargoes, and two emergency driving protocols. Each of the inspectors who went to the task had to return with these protocols, otherwise they would not accept the change. That is, what is being done in the State Inspectorate today deserves serious attention. Perhaps deploying a part of the functions of State inspections that are not specific to them would increase the level of service. So obviously the IMF is against it, so maybe the Cabinet of Ministers is against it. But let us make this comfortable, including those who work in other departments today. So far, this monopolization is going on at the highest level of corruption that you can imagine. And those poor inspectors who are afraid that they won't be able to pass on the change until they give up a certain amount, a certain amount of fuel, these inspectors, and they're suffering from cold, standing there for 10 hours a change to knock out those protocols. Who's to be kicked out of? Of the people. And they say pedestrians, if you stop 8 at the crossing, take only two, get a lot of them. Take those who charge boats, boats at sea, and take 20 gallons [20 L] of gasoline. There's a direct briefing. If this report is not considered in the IMF, then corruption will be even stronger. I think the minister should look, the deputies should look and take action, including those who report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m1.u118	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. [[on the notification of registration of means of transport, the Civil Protection Operational Service]] [[Registration number 4723]] I'd like to make a statement. [[18:04:01]] For 252 Adopted in the first reading. Dear colleagues, from the 15 minutes I wanted to take away from you, I only took four minutes. We're out of order today. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. We'll start tomorrow, like always at 10 o'clock.
