ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests, invited to the Supreme Council! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. There are 389 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues! Today, our colleagues are celebrating our birthdays with us: Darda Alexander Panasovich, Jereshko Igor Henadijovich, 55 years old, and Yagoferov Anatoly Mikolaiovich. Let's say hello to a colleague on his birthday. [[Applause]] Let me inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council at the plenary on October 4. We discussed 30 issues of the agenda with you yesterday. As a result of their consideration, 1 law was passed, 4 bills were passed on the basis, 5 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, 21 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. Dear colleagues, in accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Yes, please show me the list. The word is Grigorovich Lilia, "Our Ukraine." Prepare the Chapel. Lila Stepanovna, your word. Right. Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! 110 years ago, a prominent government official, Edmund Egan, died tragically on Zakarpatta. In 110 years, the Carpathians have respected this figure. This year is also 160 years old from his birth. Edmund Egan paid for his life for having dared to tell the truth about the troubles of the Carpathians. He's the first to propose to the then government to undertake socio-economic reforms in Zakartat for the benefit of the peasants. Egan was the only then government official who dared to tell the public the truth, who was responsible for such troubles in Zakarpatta, and especially in the Highlands. It was he who answered the question of why 250,000 carpathians went to America and Canada for 10-15 years at the end of the 19th century. Egan wrote his reform programme in the memorandum "The Economic Situation of Farmers". The first thing he suggested was to take immediate action to protect peasants from local fraud, Jewish bullies, Hungarian land speculators; to introduce an alternative state system of cooperation and population lending, land reform, and so on. This was the cause of his murder near Uzhgorod by the hands of the speculatives. A special program, Egan offered to return to the peasants the synonym, the pastures, the land they shared for hundreds of years. In order to avoid loan loans and loan loans, he suggested that alternative public credit cooperatives be established. The arrival and distribution of new breeding animals among the peasants on acceptable return conditions was a great support for farmers at Zakarpatta. The earthly reforms of Edmund Egan at Zakarpat can be compared to that of the pillar reforms in Russia. Egan was unable to witness his socio-economic rescue program, and especially the upper-ups, but during the 19th century, and especially the Czech authorities in Zakarpat in the 1920s and 1930s, and then the Communist authorities in the 1950s used the advice and the projects that Edmond Egan proposed. I think that the distinguished national MPs that National Carpathian Ambassador Edmond Egan deserves to be set an example by the people’s messengers today, or at least honored by him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u3	Please, Caplienne, the Reform Group for the Future. Get ready for Kojari.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future points out that, having recently passed a bill on documents certifying the person and confirming the citizenship of Ukraine, they did not go to the protection of citizens of their state. We call on the President of Ukraine tomorrow, which we have been doing over the past week, to veto the adopted Law on Documents that Confirm a Person and Confirm Ukrainian Citizenship. Those who lobbyed the passage of the law through the sessional hall in the Supreme Council claimed that it would turn on the green light of the visa-free regime, with the countries members of the European partnership. However, in the regional office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the view is diametrically contrasted: The key positions of the adopted law are, according to international experts, not in line with European and international standards. The adopted document, stated in a presentation by the UN High Commissioner, not only does not bring Ukraine closer to the EU, but rather undermines efforts aimed at meeting the requirements of the action plan and the liberalisation of the visa regime with the European Union. In our view, at least five points are in the document. The first, orientated cost of the minimum number of documents required for every Ukrainian citizen to sign and adopt the bill, and the list, apart from the foreign and internal passports, also included social certificates, and an insurance card, and a pension certificate, and a driver's license, and a disability certificate, would be at least 1,600 dollars. So our citizens are only going to have to spend 60 billion dollars on these documents in 2012. Secondly, the cost of producing documents and restocking from the State budget is estimated to be about 24 billion dollars. Most of these funds, both state and Ukrainian citizens' pockets, will be acquired by all known commercial structures. Thirdly, the leaders of this commercial structure will be given complete information about all citizens of Ukraine who will form these documents. It's also a special reference to human beings, and information about social status, and the routes that move them, and the revenues, and the costs of everyone. With regard to biometric data that will be included in the documents, we are convinced that they are a component of personal data, and therefore their scope should be determined as a minimum by the corresponding Law of Ukraine. Fourthly, neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, nor the Ministry of Justice, have supported this Act and have been firm against it. Fifthly, the passed law restricts the President's constitutional powers. So the Reform for the Future faction emphasizes that the adopted law is absolutely not in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine or with the interests of our fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u6	No common sense. This document serves the sole purpose of enriching those behind it and therefore needs the immediate veto of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u7	Please, Leonid Kojara, faction of the Party of the Regions. Tomenko will come after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u8	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Last week was extremely effective in the field of foreign policy. The international schedule of President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine was particularly saturated. In about 10 days, the President of Ukraine met with the leadership of most of the great nations of the world. Just mentioning the positions of the Head of State. This is the President of the United States, the President and Prime Minister of Russia, the Federal Chancellor of Germany, the Prime Minister of Canada, the Secretary-General of NATO, the Head of the European Commission and the Head of the Council of the European Union. Not to mention about two dozen working meetings with the leadership of important countries for us, from Austria, Poland to South Korea and Turkmenistan. The participation of the President of Ukraine in the 66th session of the UN General Assembly testified: "The world community highly values Ukraine's contribution to the non-proliferation of nuclear materials." Ukrainian-American agreements on the exchange of high-tech technologies for the export of highly enriched uranium from Ukrainian territory are being materialized. During recent meetings, the President of Ukraine and the United States agreed to achieve a concrete outcome in this important matter before the second nuclear security summit in Seoul in the spring of the twelfth year. The President of Ukraine made a personal effort to unlock the temporary pause in Ukrainian-Russian relations. An important result is the agreement of the parties to hold an inter-State bilateral commission in the near future. Ukraine also confirmed the position of leader among the Eastern Partnership countries at the second summit in Warsaw. The concrete outcome of the summit is to recognize the role of Ukraine as a kind of icebreaker for our partner countries. In fact, the Eastern Partnership is to run the European Union with partner countries of those forms and means of cooperation that are already working successfully or will soon become operational with Ukraine. In recent times, however, Ukraine’s relationship with the EU has gained unprecedented depth. The negotiations on the political association and the deeper free trade zone have been completed, the first evaluation of Ukraine's implementation of the visa-free regime plan has been approved, and this assessment is positive. Not least under the influence of Ukraine, the EU itself is changing its approach to cooperation under the Eastern Partnership. Yes, the summary document refers to the allocation by the European Union of almost two billion euros for partnerships for 2010-2013, and this amount is significant in the light of the unprecedented crisis in the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u9	But faction, more loyally, afterfaction, sorry, Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. Then he'll be performing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! I'd like to draw you to the Odessa events that we've gone through inconspicuously both in the assessment of the public authorities and in the assessment of the Ukrainian Parliament. To be honest, we knew that the authorities of the state, which care for national security and defence, and the law enforcement agencies in Ukraine are not working very well, but we didn't know that. I looked at the details of the Odessa event, and when I heard the conclusion that four and a half hours of war in the center of Odessa is called "the professionalism of Ukrainian special divisions," I probably don't understand how the law enforcement organs in a civilized country should function. We would like to urge the President to draw a number of conclusions from the situation. Conclusion one: There is no government policy in the migration field as such in Ukraine. Today, Ukraine has been transformed into a sanatorium for closets and thieves who are free to come here to rest because they have long been expelled from other neighbouring countries. The second conclusion is budgetary or financially organisational. We heard from the minister in the session room that he bought the best vests, the best hand-delivery, the best weapons, and it turns out that the whole country was gathering this weapon to carry out this so-called special operation. The third question is the human question. We've heard here that the police have gathered the best human beings in the history of Ukrainian independence. I have a question: which of the best staffers have sent guys without training, without cover, without armor, to death -- and for that they are not responsible? Where were those professionals who, without knowing the basic Asian solutions to the special operations, organized the situation, and half the city watched the B.S.A. with rifles and armoured transporters drive around Odessa? The whole world laughs at this special operation, and only in Ukraine is it considered normal. A moral conclusion. After this situation, do we have to ask the heads of the special forces to repent, apologize to the people who have died, to the country that is awaiting international competition, and today the special forces are not ready to take one bandit?Oh, my God! That is why we demand that the President hold an urgent meeting of the National Security and Defence Council. During the investigation, the Minister of Internal Affairs and the head of the Security Service filed resignations. If the investigation reveals that they acted adequately, no questions asked, let them work. But the general preliminary conclusion is that there is no chance in the country where they work in the police and in the BSS to protect the life and freedom of the citizen. They learned how to kick grandma out and from under the silence of the MPs -- learn to protect Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u11	The word is Soltus, the faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u12	I'd like to give the floor to Deputy Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u13	Yes, please, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u14	Respectable national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, have recently been spreading alarming, pessimistic predictions about the further development of the country's economy in our country. There is a situation where small conjunctural fluctuations in rates changing according to the demand/supposition ratio result in discussions about the irreversible collapse of the national currency, when certain technical complications in the treasury accounting system are caused by the noise and the technical sovereign default of Ukraine on bonds. These and other challenges are often expressed on subjective evaluations and on disturbing signals about the prospects of the world economy. But I would like to point out that, without looking at the debt crisis in the European Union, we feel confident. The heavy debt burden in EU member countries, which is now one of the main causes of crisis in the euro area, is much higher than in Ukraine. The country's state debt with the worst economy in the European Union of Greece is 153 percent, with Germany's best, 83 percent, while Ukraine's government debt does not exceed 60 percent. After the comprehensive reforms initiated by the President of Ukraine, foreign investors' confidence in Ukraine is restored. In eight months this year, direct foreign investment has been invested in Ukraine for more than $4.5 billion. The very strong inflow of investments has completely overturned the negative value of the trade balance and has provided a significant positive balance. This, in turn, allowed for an increase in international currency reserves to a historical maximum of $38 billion that would allow the exchange rate to be maintained only by monetary instruments, even without macroeconomic support, for not one month. Ukraine’s economy also shows significant growth rates. Over the six months, GDP grew by 4.5 percent, industrial output rose by 9 percent, and the total volume of deposits increased by nearly half a trillion dollars at the beginning of the year. These and other macroeconomic indicators say only one thing: the situation is stable, predictable, and managed, and the government, and the National Bank are holding their hands on the pulse. And most important for us ourselves is not to rock a ship called Ukraine. Because everyone loses: both the passengers and the team directly. So I urge you not to give in to speculation, to believe in yourself and your country, and this will help us through any trials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u15	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. After him, Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u16	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Respectable citizens! As we build our domestic economy, we are much more concerned about global issues: GDP growth, macroeconomic growth, domestic or external borrowing. Of course, these questions are important. At the same time, let's think about the end of the '80s -- the beginning of the '90s. Then all the discussions, speeches, projects, proposals for economic change were about giving every person the opportunity to be a co-owner of the enterprise that this person is working on. Both privatization certificates and cooperatives were designed to do this: to make everyone feel like they own themselves. However, economic injustice, and in some cases the misunderstanding of the economic system itself, takes away not only the desire to do something but also the disappointment of life, but also the disappointment of prospects. We can talk about foreign investment for a long time, but if a Ukrainian citizen does not believe in the ability of the Ukrainian economy, why should others believe in it? Let's take Ukrainian shareholders, not top managers, not members of the government, ordinary small shareholders. Who defends their rights today and yesterday? Here's a reference from Mikolai's pensioner Vasil Omelanovic Derepapa, who became a shareholder of the Astra Trans VAT in 1994. However, he was never paid dividends or a penny for the shares purchased by him. Moreover, on his repeated appeal to the registration of a company in the city of Mikolayev, it was reported that such an enterprise was not registered there at all. Only in 2006 did he receive invitations to the congregations of this VAT, which were to take place, not in Nicholas, at the place of registration, but in Chernig. Obviously, the pensioner didn't have the opportunity to go there, and he didn't have the money to go to another city. After that, neither the hearing nor the spirit nor the dividends that were to be paid to the pensioner over the years. What kind of owner is this? That's cheating! Fraud involving not hundreds but thousands and millions of small shareholders, those who wanted to become small owners. Embarrassing financial affairs, unpunished frauders have betrayed people not only in the economy, but also in the ability of the state to protect their property rights. So today, no public - minded manipulation will be able to remedy this situation. Only by restoring the confidence of its citizens in the economy is one of the most important ways of transforming them and restoring their effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u17	Arsenius Yatsenuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please. Taras Cnerwell will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u18	The people of Ukraine, today in Ukraine, are a very important day. Let me just say this is the day of judgment. Let me just say, this is Ukraine's self-determination day. Does the President tell you the truth when he says that Ukraine is a European state that wants to move to the European Union, to sign the Political Association Agreement and the Free Trade Agreement and to stop the political persecution of its political opponents? Today, there will be four bills on what is called decriminalization. Or, in other words, the depoliticization of criminal justice. Political opponents cannot be fought through the courts, the prosecutor’s office, the prison. Political opponents need to learn to fight only in European -- in open debates, in elections, through the struggle of ideas, not through the use of force and the Criminal Code. We want the President to show his will today until political persecution is stopped. And so today Parliament will take a decisive step towards the destruction of the Soviet criminal system, which in the 1930s destroyed the political elite and now destroys the political opponents. We urge the party of power to vote in favour of laws that decriminalize political persecution, and which enable the political struggle to fight exclusively in elections, not in the investigative isolation. It turns out that killers, criminal authorities, those who have committed real crimes and those who are supposed to be persecuting criminals today are pursuing civilians like a recently published video when a student boy actually killed the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And here I can only support my colleague Tomenka about the need not only for a PNP meeting, but also for a special Parliamentary meeting on what is happening in the country today. There was another video released yesterday, another video of how cars accompanied by a higher official not only broke the mirror in the cars of ordinary citizens, but a few minutes more -- and I think they'd start shooting because they didn't miss our citizens. We have introduced a bill that provides for the prohibition of escorting, the use of military eyelashes, and the closure of the movement for the President, the Prime Minister, and the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the one whose cars hit the cars of ordinary citizens yesterday has to admit it and file a resignation application.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u19	Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future. Anatoly Matvienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u20	Honourable Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, national MPs, MPs for the Future, considers it necessary to draw attention to the leadership of the State, the government, parliament, the Ukrainian and international public at the turn of the official Russian authorities on Ukrainian diaspora civil organisations in the Russian Federation, the unification of Ukrainians in Russia. Let's think about a little bit of retrospect. At the beginning of last year, on January 27, 2010, the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation finally eliminated the federal national and cultural autonomy of Ukrainians in Russia, which had existed since 1998. In December 2010, repression began against the Ukrainian literature library in Moscow, and on December 23, 2010, in a criminal case based on the spread of allegedly extremist literature, the Department of Extremism of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation launched a search library and a series of unfriendly actions, including the beating of the director of the Natalia Shirinu library. Let's imagine: if in Ukraine we were to verify and compare in our libraries, in our bookstores, the literature that was considered extremist in Russia, and also to approach the Russian literature that is sold in us, I think that under the criteria that were proposed there, three-quarters of Russian books would be considered Russian standards as extremist. Praise be to God, neither the Ukrainian authorities nor the Ukrainian public have ever been allowed to do the same! Let's move on. The decision of the Moscow Mosquito Court upheld the position of the Ministry of Justice of the Russian Federation in the case of the liquidation of the Russian Union of Ukrainians, as evidenced by the continuation of an open-minded policy of some Russian Federation authorities regarding the Ukrainian national minority in Russia. Apparently, there is a strong policy in the Russian Federation today aimed at the complete assimilation of the Ukrainians who live in that country. For them, it creates a very uncomfortable moral and psychological atmosphere. Which, in fact, leads to the fact that after such actions, we can't find among many hundreds of thousands of people of Ukrainian nationality who live in large Russian cities, an appropriate number of people who would like to start a Ukrainian school. Let's imagine again. If someone thought of doing this in Ukraine, what would be the reaction of the Russian Federation?Oh, my God! And what would that look like to our citizens? In view of the fact that such actions are truly unfriendly, they do not apply to the Ukrainian diaspora in any country of the world, and the Russian Federation is our strategic partner, we refer to the President, to the government, to the Head of the Supreme Council to address those facts. And defend the rights of our Ukrainian citizens and our fellow countrymen, who have already become citizens of another state, the Russian Federation! This is our duty, our sacred duty. And our strategic partners also have obligations toward us to avoid such actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u21	Anatoly Matvienko, faction “Our Ukraine. ” Next up will be Elena Shustik instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u22	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” block. Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to two problems. Apparently, they come from the fact that these problems that exist in our country today confirm the truth that the poor society and the tragic history of that state, where the authorities, instead of open politics, dialogue with their own people, have a different policy of conjunctural politics, the policy of cynicism, if you will, the policy of such petty theft. As a result, there are appropriate decisions and relevant laws that undermine society and which lead to the fact that this authority is not to be trusted, and no reforms will then take place in this state. Those who were in the districts today or last week have seen that while we are struggling with the so-called cynical draft of Law 9127: the State's guarantees of enforcement -- and we're talking about how we can't deal with the benefits of war veterans, Afghans, black people -- I want to let you know, whoever was in the districts knows that the Order, the so-called 745, is now based on Bill 3491-6. They've cancelled all the benefits from the government's decision and no one's paying anyone anything today. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you. Three relevant bills have been registered to reverse this decision. The 7th paragraph, which was a violation of the Rules, should be brought to this law and brought into conformity. I ask that we consider this as soon as possible at a meeting of the Supreme Council. And the second question. A question that concerns the experiment in four areas regarding the so-called reform of the medical field. [[Kyiv, Dnipropetrovska, Vinnitsky and Donetska]] I know a bill has already been registered that proposes to exclude the Donetsk region from such an experiment. I mean, Vladimir Mikhailovich and my esteemed colleagues, I've analyzed the Ministry of Health, I've been to eight hospitals -- no one's doing anything. As a result of what we need to improve, so - called, public health services, we optimize the so - called health system, bring in the minimum budgets, release people, and no one knows any prospects. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this experiment undermines our trust in our own Supreme Council. I'm asking for your commission as a committee, and I think we need to listen to this information on the Supreme Council, otherwise there will be nothing but a deterioration in the health situation in these areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u23	Thank you, too. Olena Shustik, BUT faction, Fatherland. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u24	Olena Shustik, "BUT" is Fatherland. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished Ukrainians! Today, two months ago, Julia Tymoshenko was illegally deprived of her will and is in the compound. Perhaps for the love of the people, Ukraine and indeed a national, stately position, because the criminal case against it is exclusively political revenge and fear of power for its immediate future. Court debates have finally overturned all charges, there is no evidence of ex-Prime Minister's guilt in the 23rd volumes of criminal proceedings. Each page of the case is a forgery and a gross violation of the law by investigators, experts, judges. The work of falsifying the case against Timoshenko was conducted at a brilliant pace, and investigators and experts worked day and night, awake and weekend, and even in the nonexistent days of the calendar. The long - prepared expert conclusions were signed under the direction of the CBS’s coworkers. There aren't even any original directives that are incriminating ex-premier. The court was supposed to stop the prosecution’s claim, but it became a siege of lawlessness, a tool to satisfy political interests, and to combat political opponents. Of the thirty protected witnesses, only two were questioned, while 39 were heard at the request of prosecutors. Of the one hundred protection concerns, only five were partially satisfied, only falsified material was involved, and the evidence of absurdity was not taken into account. Timoshenko’s criminal persecution has resulted in a brutal violation of the right to protection, the right to freedom and respect for the individual, the cynical disregard for the principles of the rule of law, the rule of law, the competition, equality, the transparency and openness of the trial. Even the verdicts are going to be announced without the public and even without the presence of the national MPs. Julius Tymoshenko was deprived of the opportunity to speak with a closing word. This is not even the case with dangerous criminals. A delicate woman was confronted by a criminal group of investigators, prosecutors, experts, judges. And so, understanding this and realizing that there is no crime in Timoshenko's actions, the world community actively defended Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko. However, the court, which should be the conscience of society, became a hostage of power and unreservedly carries out political will. This is a disgrace to the entire world for the democratic rule of law. But perhaps the urge to eliminate a strong political opponent is stronger. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches of the national MPs have been completed. I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate referrals and assignments for the proposals made by the national MPs. In particular, I draw your attention to what Anatoly Sergeiovich Matviyenko said. Well, all other presentations should also be analysed for an appropriate response from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the issue of ratification. draft Act ratifying the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Mutual Recognition of Rights and Property Relations of 11 August 1994, registration number 0196. There's an offer, my dear fellows, to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:36:20]] For 221 Decision taken. Reporter – Head of the State Property Fund Rybchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich, co-rapporteur – First Deputy Head of the Committee. Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act ratifying the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on mutual recognition of rights and property relations since 11 August 1994. A deal was made between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on August 11, 1994. The agreement came into effect on October 19, 2001. In the course of the implementation of the agreement, it was found that both parties claimed to be objects of production that did not fall within the scope of the agreement, since, as of December 1, 1990, they were in the name of the ministries of double federal and republican subordination, and the agreement was intended only to regulate matters if the federal subordination of the Ministry or the republican was not taken into account. Such objects include part of the Dniestrov’s buffer tunnel, located in the territory of the Republic of Moldova, claimed by the Ukrainian side, and the Pervomayan granite and Chernobyl gravel sand careers claimed by the Moldovan side. A draft protocol has been developed for the purpose of settling the ownership rights of the listed objects to the parties. The protocol was signed on February 1, 2010. The adoption of this protocol will provide legitimate grounds for settling Ukraine's ownership rights to part of the Dniestrovski buffer node and, according to earlier Ukrainian-Moldov agreements, this will accelerate the conclusion of an agreement to ensure the operation of the entire Dniestrów complex hydraulics. We are further informed that on 28 July 2011, the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova ratified the protocol that we are considering today. And I also want to tell you that there was an earlier question about the recognition of Ukrainian ownership on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u27	Finish up, please. Microphone, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u28	Under the Odessa-Rani highway in the Palanca area. And this year these 18 hectares are recognized as Ukrainian property, and the corresponding act is passed to the Ukrainian side. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u29	Thank you. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Over the past 12 years, the Supreme Council has been actively working with the government to solve the complex 12 problems of Ukrainian-Moldov cooperation. Thank God, we have managed to move out of the place, and as the head of the Property Exchange has told us, there are concrete results -- and open doors for a final and fair equal solution to all the problems that have accumulated. The Committee on Foreign Affairs held 12 inter-parliamentary meetings: in Kiev, in Odessa, in Chisinau -- and with full moral authority, it initially slowed down this issue a year ago, and on September 21, it reviewed the draft Law on the Ratification of this Protocol and recommended that the Supreme Council ratify it. The bill, as has already been said, provides for a legal basis for settling Ukrainian ownership rights in part of the watershed of the Dniprov’s buffer well and a number of problems. We got 18 hectares under the Ukrainian highway, and that's more than we gave Moldova in Judgulesta. As far as the procedure is concerned, the adoption of this law and its further implementation do not require additional budgetary funding. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and the Committee of the Supreme Council on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u31	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u32	The Rules Committee recommends and supports ratification. Please support the positive recommendation and ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign in. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Andrey Schlell, "BUT is the Fatherland." Gregory Smythech will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u34	Thank you. I would like to point out that this ratification is not as simple as it looks on the surface. Because it actually opens the door, of course, for the dialogue, and it's very good that this dialogue started, and I welcome it. Because there has actually been a change of power in Moldova, and a dialogue with new authority in a sovereign country needs to be supported. But what is the property relationship between nations? This means that Ukraine has accepted all the claims made since 1994 regarding objects located in Ukraine. In particular, this is about, for example, a sanatorium in the city of Truscavez "Moldova", which is passed on after the ratification of this agreement in the unilateral order of the state of Moldova. And another 42 objects located in Ukraine, which, of course, equally does Ukraine receive in return, Ukraine receives a promise to negotiate that would open the door to continue the dialogue on the ownership of the Dniprova Hydral. That's the sinking dam that was mentioned earlier. What, though, happened to the Dniestrove basin? At the end of 2002, in early 2003, Moldova’s border post was unwarranted and unmotivated. With all due respect to the country, we need to keep this in mind. And whoever is now actively aspiring for ratification needs to know about it because there is a property relationship between nations. And I'm pleased that the faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block has decided not to support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u35	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is George Litwin. Oleg Zarubinski, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I don't think the Supreme Council should ratify this treaty today. And for the following reason: first, we set a dangerous precedent for Ukraine that we recognize today some objects as property of another state, and tomorrow other states can also refer to allied, ministerial or other agreements that were under Soviet rule. And as a result, we're setting a precedent, and we're going to be constantly ratifying it, because each country is going to be making claims. Please tell us, how much Ukraine has created, for example, objects in the Russian Federation, and where are they owned by the Ukrainian people? And please tell me how this ratification of the Constitution relates to article 13 of the Constitution, which states that nadra and so on. Belongs to the Ukrainian people? And I'm told that I don't need any more funding. What is the situation today that holds these careers? And who owns it? Are they active today or are they not? And how will this matter be resolved? And so on and so forth. It's a question. I think that if we're so easy, in the short term, we're giving up part of the state territory, and objects and territory, that's the territory of another state, I don't understand why the committee is so easy to deal with. I personally said that the ratification of property rights, especially in the Soviet Union’s property section, took place in 1991, had borders. If this is accompanied by borders in one part or another that the road has fallen in the middle of the border or, there, the river has fallen or changed, that is still to be understood. And this needs to be investigated, and we need to make this clear if there is a need. And then we can have mutual respect for one country to another, including the road that is on the Moldovan side, including the hydraulics that it provides.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u37	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u38	How can we react and give up territory in Ukraine? Whoever votes will commit the crime against the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u39	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, please, faction of the People's Party. Then you? Then there's Yuri Carmazin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u40	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I came from this rostrum, apparently three or four times against any contractual new novelties with the Republic of Moldova, referring precisely to the fact that the Republic of Moldova does not fulfil its key promise: in exchange for the territory on which it was to build an oil terminal near the Danube, and thus in fact become a maritime state, Moldova promised and pledged to give Ukraine 18 hectares of property in the Palanca area, a significant section on the way to Odessa-Rani. [[This is the area of Judjuleste.]] That was the main argument, and it remains today, but we have to look at it differently. Because it's a matter of new or old power in Moldova for us. We have to work with our neighbor, whatever it is, it's not that. But the thing is, today is officially, legitimate property in this 18-hectare area is recognised as Ukraine. This was a key point, it was a major obstacle, not a contractual obligation that applied to what was in the territory of Moldova and Ukraine for 1990. By the way, there are a number of objects that Ukraine will have in its possession in Moldova, but the main moment is hydrosol. And you all know very well that this is a strategic object. And if you've taken the scales, put two key strategic objects on the scale, where you've already adopted the form of ownership, the form of ownership, what I've said, the road in the Palanca area, and the second moment, which is a real opportunity to build this part of the decommissioning hydraulics in the form of ownership, it's clear that there are no obstacles that would have previously allowed you to slow down the process of making treaties, international agreements with Moldova. And that's why I think in this case, the head of the profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u41	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u42	The head of the profile committee, where, as far as I know, it was sufficiently detailed and thorough to deal with the problem, made the optimal suggestion that in this case it would benefit Ukraine and not anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u43	Yuri Carmazin, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, I would like to tell you that such an important issue cannot be considered under a reduced procedure. Especially because there are so many questions. Why? Today, they're comparing those 18 hectares to sections of the Odessa-Rani road, which we haven't had in Palanca for years. But please remember the story. At first, Ukraine made Moldova a maritime state, gave them a port, gave them a territory, and made it a maritime state. Instead, Ukraine did not receive these 18 acres [18 ha] of land. Now we've finally got them. But there's a big but. Here's the protocol. I think we need further clarifications and MMS, and additional guarantees for what's going on. Because nowhere is it written about the GES of Dniester, it's nowhere to be found. It only says that the right of ownership of the other party and of citizens and legal persons in relation to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u45	Microphone, please. Finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u46	Thank you, I'll finish. Because of this, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to have a friendly and warm relationship with the Republic of Moldova. And in order not to upset them in any way, I think we need to put this question down and consider it in full procedure. Maybe we'll all consciously support ratification, maybe postpone it to some other negotiation. But I'm now proposing that I put it off so that we can take a closer look at the full procedure. Including the fact that some factions were spoken of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u47	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, no more willing to speak than factions who did not take advantage of the right to speak? Oleg Grigorovich, please. And I'm telling you all, dear colleagues, read the document and see when it was signed, then we'll talk, Yuri Anatolyevich, about the opposition. This was just signed by the opposition’s representatives today. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u48	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, I have taken the floor to dismiss the accusation of a fellow member of the honourable Smith that the committee hastened and so on. Your speech, a distinguished colleague, is interesting because it shows that you have neither enough information nor sufficient rights for such statements. On the part of the school colleague, it was stated that the BUT faction would not vote. This does not answer, to put it mildly, reality. Today, the faction has decided to vote freely. And you, a school colleague, should take part in a committee meeting and study the problem in detail before making such multilingual statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u49	Your Honor, is he there? Andrew Schlell, last name, a line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to emphasise that the ability to discuss and not to switch to personalities is the ability of great people. And I hope that in this room, most people are big. Therefore, they lead the respective committees and structures and their greatness should not be to trample on other people, but to be large and not to move on. As for the absence of someone on the committee, I was on my way away from the Supreme Council, and I could get help and replace the gaps in my memory. I reiterate that this resolution, this ratification we have no right to vote now, at least at this stage. Because under the circumstances, we are going against the interests of the Ukrainian State. And I would like everyone consciously to make their choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. It's pretty obvious that there's a right to any kind of question-making, but I think we should get to know all the materials before that and say what they've been cheating on. I want to say again, what were the interests of the Cabinet of Ministers betrayed when I analyzed the matter and signed it, the previous Cabinet of Ministers? And today's Cabinet of Ministers has supported them. Two members of the government discussed the matter. And there's obviously people sitting there who don't want to give up any property in Ukraine. But we have come out of the fact that we need to resolve issues that concern Ukraine’s national interests. And it is obvious that we have no basis to claim a betrayal of national interests. Therefore, the honourable colleagues, considering what the statements were, are finished. Here we go. Names weren't called. Dear colleagues! In view of the circumstances that have been expressed in contraversive positions, I would ask very carefully to approach the national MPs to make the final decision. I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on the Approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova to Amend the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Mutual Recognition of Rights and Property Relations since 11 August 1994. Please vote. [[10:55:34]] For 279 The law is passed. The factions? Please. The Party of Regions – 174, "BUT – "Fathership" – 9, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 22, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, "The People's Party – 20, "Afterfaction" – 9. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0222]] Please, one minute. Why don't you check with the Secretariat? The name was Gregory Smythech? He was called to have the right to a replica. They'll check and tell. Dear colleagues! Taras Vejeslavovich, can we follow the brief procedure to address this issue? May I? Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[10:56:46]] For 204 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, indeed, called the chairman of the committee the name Gregory Smithyuch, the secretary told me. Please, microphone, right on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u52	I want to tell the head of the committee who left the hall and I didn't see him, the following line. Maybe I don't understand anything about foreign affairs and I don't have the experience of Mr. Belarus, but I care about Ukraine's interests and Ukraine's independence. That's the first question. And I do not agree with the fact that the head of the committee is considering a simplified procedure as a matter of such importance as the territory of Ukraine. Yeah, I can't as a deputy ask him questions about which to answer in order to make a conscious decision. And it's not just about me, but it's about the majority of the deputies who should have the right to ask the question when it comes to the territory of Ukraine. And I ask you not to consider such questions in the short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u53	Thank you, too, the remark is accepted. Please, Oleg Belarus, who has not left the session room, is head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u54	I wasn't going to leave the session room, I was expecting an honorary colleague to speak. But the question of a reduced procedure is not a matter of committee, it's a matter of decision by the Supreme Council. And there's one important question when you say that Ukraine loses territory, well, study this question, Ukraine loses nothing. The spare part of the hydraulics in Moldova was, is and will be, but Moldova will give us this territory either for rent or for ownership. But even border changes in demarcation may arise. Learn carefully, and you do not need to be hysterical.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, they exchanged their thoughts. We continue to work in the spirit of constructiveism, as before. The rapporteur is Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine Rodovko Volodymir Mihajlovich. Correspondent is the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On March 14, this year, an agreement was signed in Amman between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on mutual protection of information with limited access. According to articles 2 and 32 of the Ukrainian State Secret Act and article 9 of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, it is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Security Service, as a specially authorized state authority in the field of State Security, has prepared a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the International Treaty, which is proposed for your consideration. The bill is in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, and according to the Ministry of Justice, it is in line with the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine. By order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 31 August of this year, this international treaty has been submitted for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If the agreement becomes effective, it will enhance the effectiveness of mutually beneficial cooperation between Ukraine and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in the areas of defence, economy, science and technology, external relations, state security and the protection of the rule of law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u57	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Taras Vjačeslavovich, please report the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Law on Ratification at its meeting. We unanimously supported him. In this case, we have a standard document that we don't vote for the first time in our Supreme Council Hall, which we really do accept as the relationship between Ukraine and the State in question increases. As soon as the documents that form us begin to pass, confidential information contains or secret information, there is an immediate need for a clear record of the rights and obligations of persons involved in the exchange of such information. Such documents do not create new secret documents, new classified information, do not promote any secrecy and transfer, they are designed to produce mechanisms, such as one legal person who owns classified information and has to transfer it to another State, should consult, should determine whether those who accept information have carried out appropriate procedures for confidentiality, information conservation and so on. So in this case, in this law and in this agreement, absolutely all the points are set out according to international conditions, it's not very different, practically, from other documents, except that in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, there are certain individual griffins that we've adapted here. In particular, except for "All in secret," "The Secret," "The Service Use" is also used in documents of particular importance. The complete document is in keeping with our international obligations and interests. Now today, when Ukraine strengthens its contacts with Jordan, when we have enough cargo, and when we have serious human contacts today, we have direct flights of Kiev-Oman, under such conditions, of course we need to enter and appropriate. an appropriate contractual base. The MPs of our time visited Jordan with a very important visit, we prepared, I, Yuri Karakai, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, prepared a visit to Ukraine by the King of Jordan, and after that visit to us, really.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u59	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u60	rose to the point when we should exchange information and store it. The committee is asking for the support of the draft Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on discussing this matter, please sign up. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Then there's Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u62	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, the signing of this agreement has been legal in nature, since in recent years, especially in the last year and a half, the relationship, the relationship between Ukraine and Jordan has deepened and intensified. And I would also like to say that if you look at the map of the Middle East, Jordan is a kind of stabilizer of the situation, it doesn't always succeed, and the authority of Jordan and the leadership of that state, this kingdom, is extremely large, including the opponents, some even call themselves antagonists in the Middle East. Therefore, Ukraine’s relationship with Jordan needs to be strengthened in every way. And according to Taras Cranwell, as this relationship becomes larger, more extensive, more multi-profile, there is a need for certain procedures to protect information in relations between two sovereign states. In addition, I want to say that this document is absolutely a framework, this agreement is absolutely a framework. And we didn't make one such deal. I hope that as we deepen our cooperation with other countries, we will make many more of these framework agreements on information with limited access, on mutual. on cooperation in this area as well. Our faction will vote unanimously in favour of ratifying this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u64	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the treaty has to be ratified. But what kind of information protection are we talking about? Can we protect the information that the defense in Ukraine is broken, that 8,000 soldiers are being reduced now? Can we protect the information that we had a gang for three years at first in Crimea, then in Odessa, run into businessmen, or then shoot a man with his hand held up so that he doesn't get hurt? Will we also hide this information? Are we going to hide that we today have all the grain sales agreements with Jordan under threat, not just in danger, but in favor of the Russian Federation, which, in these five months, has exceeded the amount of harvesting of grains from Ukraine? They sold 4.5 million tons of grain, and we're 0.9 million tons, and we're waiting for what happens, or we're going to get this Ukraine. That's what we want to hide. Ladies and gentlemen, let's probably take down all the griffins from everything. I can see that we have no secrets. This has to be ratified, of course, but it probably doesn't have to be kept secret right now from what's going on in the state. In the state, and we need to be clear, anti-national action is taking place, and anti-national power is taking place. Because of the fact that April 31st appeared in the state, is it a secret for us to keep Yemen a secret? On 31 April, documents were approved by the Attorney General's Office. Is it possible to draw Timoshenko, or is it not?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u65	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u66	I'm done. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Of course, I've stared, of course, but life makes it happen, the whole country knows that April 31st doesn't exist, and Baron Munhausen is everything today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u67	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! We completed the discussion of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on mutual protection of information with limited access. Registration number 0222. The proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:09:22]] For 332 Decision taken. Thank you. I mean, the law's approved. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now consider the inclusion in the agenda of a series of bills. Let's do this: I'm going to call the bill number, if there's a need to discuss it, then in summary mode we're going to talk about it. If not, I am simply voting for inclusion in the agenda, and if necessary, we will then discuss it in accordance with the Rules. Honorary colleagues, the President of Ukraine introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the humaneization of responsibility for wrongs in the field of economic activity]] [[Registration number 9221]] I am voting on the proposal to include this bill in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:10:35]] For 263 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we now need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to Article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the decriminalization of the responsibilities of individual officials]] [[Registration number 9157]] By Viacheslav Kirilenko and Vladimir Moisik Shall we discuss it? Then, honourable colleagues, according to the Rules, the procedure is shortened. Reporter - Viacheslav Kirilenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u68	Viacheslav Kirilenko Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, my colleague, national deputy Volodymyr Moysik, I am introducing to your consideration a bill on decriminalizing the responsibilities of individual officials. It is no secret that this bill is directly related to the political repressions that take place in the country now, and directly to the leaders of the opposition: Julius Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka At the same time, in addition to the political component associated with the unlawful persecution of politicians, it has a clear legal component that draws our legislation closer to the European Union’s legislation. And it foresees political responsibility for political decisions, if only in the actions of a political person there are no personal motives, this is a practice that is applied in other civilized countries and is fully applicable in Ukraine. At the same time, it should be noted that if my bill is not supported, both external and internal tension in the country will increase. The issue of political persecution has long ceased to be the issue of President Yanukovic, which is the issue of the Ukrainian State. The owners are coming to any country in the world, the first question is about Timoshenko and Lucenka. This is already in the national interest of Ukraine. I'm not saying that the lawsuits themselves are deadlocked, the charges against Timoshenko are falling apart, and it's essentially been deprived of the last word in a court of law. The Witnesses in Lucenka’s case reject each other’s testimony in the trial. And that means that the white threads that sew these things come out. And in order to defuse this situation, it is necessary to decriminalize those articles that allegedly accuse the leaders of the opposition of Julius Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko. Please and most will support my bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u69	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! I ask you to sign up for this discussion. There is no need to speak from the committee because the committee has not considered the matter. And we agreed, taking into account the sensitivity of this problem, to bring this bill to your attention. Please sign up, your honors. Yeah, we've already got the footage. Irina Heratschenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I want to say that the authorities have certainly simply driven themselves into a dead end by these shameful processes that have nothing to do with justice. And today, the opposition is essentially stretching its hand to help the government to save Ukraine from the disgraceful situation in which it was subjected to political repression by the leaders of the opposition. Today the world is talking about selective justice, and today Ukrainian citizens do not believe that there is at least some healthful grain in these processes against Timoshenko and Lucenko, as if fighting corruption. Because in the wild, those who have stolen the Kiev go free to those who are now in power, robbing the country simply with tons, millions, and so forth. And it's all about political repression, the authorities say it's stronger than ever. So, powerful authorities, they never fear opponents, they win fair fights with them, not hide them in prisons and camps. So, of course, we're just stretching the hand of help to the government today to save the country, so that the country will sign an association political treaty so that we can get closer to the European Union together. And let's vote together for that. What's more, I particularly want to go to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, and to the entire National Party of Ukraine, and to those distinguished colleagues who were still part of the BUT faction yesterday and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." It can't be like, "what seat determines the point of view." In 2009, you had nothing against those gas contracts and talked about it saving the country. Today, you are absolutely calm in looking at the shameful violation of human rights in these two courts. And I would also particularly like to refer to the prominent lawyers in this room. So that you can go to those trials once and see what's going on there, that it's an absolute disgrace to the Ukrainian judicial system. It's an absolute disgrace, when people who run justice there are called judges, that's what spoils the image of Ukraine today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u71	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u72	Dear friends, dear colleagues, distinguished presidencies, distinguished voters! Clearly, the situation must be saved. On the right hand side of Lucenka and on Timoshenko, it spread into the air and into dust. There is no warehouse or event. Dear friends, we need to save the country's reputation, the image of power and the judicial system, the reputation of the judicial system. One of my rescue options was offered by my colleague Viacheslav Kirilenko. Guys, he's already given the argument. I might add, and such arguments are so many that in any civilized country of the world with such materials on the threshold of the court they wouldn't let go! I won't speak again on April 31st, December of this year. For the fact that 500 pages and more of the paper were done in two days. Dear friends, what is this?Oh, my God! What's that called?Oh, my God! In the final analysis, the accusation is literally: "Tymishenko has created a positive image of an effective manager." Can you please tell me who's in charge of politics to make a fool's image?Oh, my God! Dear friends, this bill helps to save the situation, to divert suspicions from the becimto order, from political motives. It allows the really judicial system to show that it is independent. And, my friends, this bill must be voted on. Politicians should determine their relationship in the elections. It's not our words, it's the words of Europe's leading political actors, including, and probably, Angela Merkel, who said, "Find out for your political decisions in the open debate." Today the government decided to block the grain market, not to export it, just as my colleague spoke about it. Friends, 50 million grains in the country remain, price collapses. Millions of peasants do not profit. What kind of decision is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u73	Finish up, please. Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, we are now establishing a very bad tradition when, with political relevance, we begin to change the Criminal Code into a specific event or a specific person. Our second tradition was that there is no judgment today, but there is already pressure on the court from the parliamentary rostrum. Then what example should we set for our citizens? What is stipulated in this bill? It is stated that political persons cannot be in office and thus avoid responsibility. Then the question arises, and what about article 19 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which establishes legal order in the state, and it clearly states that public authorities, local governments, their officials act only on the basis of law, within powers and in a manner defined by the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. Then you and I bring together a bunch of politicians who can avoid being held responsible for wrongdoing. Of course, the question is, Why have we seen this today? This article was before that. Unlike the Presidential Project, he asks questions about decriminalization of business, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, about a situation that has arisen abnormally in the state, when, for petty minor offences, people in prisons are planted, their business is destroyed. And today we see that only out of political relevance is there a desire to change the Constitution. Then we start a tradition that every citizen has the right to go to Parliament because of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u75	Finish up, please. Dear colleagues, well, we're tolerant, but we're giving everyone the opportunity. You all have it, don't you? Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion of proposals for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law. I put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, please vote. [[on the decriminalization of the responsibilities of individual officials]] [[Registration number 9157]] [[11:21:44]] For-154 The decision is not taken. The factions. Factions, please? Regional Party – 0, "BUT - "Patkaščina" – 98, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 48, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, "The People's Party – 0, "Afterfaction" – 6. Now, honourable colleagues, we are moving on to a consideration of the proposals for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, Authors - Yacenuk, Zvarić, Knazevitch. [[on the introduction of European standards in criminal justice]] [[Registration number 9165]] Arsenius Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u76	Dear people of Ukraine! I will begin with the legal basis for this bill. I want to make it clear that the article of the Criminal Code, under which hundreds of Ukrainians are being persecuted today, including representatives of the opposition, namely former Prime Minister Timoshenko and former Minister of Interior Lucenko, was born in the Criminal Code of the Ukrainian Socialist Republic in 1927! This is article 98, edited by Comrade Stalin. This article is currently being followed by Ukrainian citizens and opposition leaders. There are no similar articles in Anglo-Saxon or in the continental system. This is article 365 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which defines the incomprehensible status of transfer of power and official authority. The proposal that we offer is as follows. Eliminate the Soviet Stalinic article. Allowing us to stop political persecution. But in doing so, amend article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, namely "abuse of power and duty." This is what today’s authorities are doing. And make changes to article 191 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which foresees that, for example, representatives of today’s authorities either receive property or spend national and national property, and will bear criminal responsibility for it. So we insist that we make complex changes to this criminal law. Now it's about the political component. Strangely enough, now politicians have become criminals and criminals have become politicians. That's why I'd like to. (Front) [[Applause]] so that today's ruling majority can vote for this law, stop political persecution, lead the criminal legislation of Ukraine to European standards, and know what's behind this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u77	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u78	And she knew that under our law every action of today’s authority would be criminally persecuted. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this bill. Yes, the names, please show me the national MPs. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u80	Colleagues, I'm asking you to pass the word to Oleg Lashko. He wants to give someone something. But one phrase. I speak again, I want to be correct, but I'm going to be invalid, to the showers that came to Parliament under the banners of Lucenka and Timoshenko. Have a conscience, please! Those who brought you into Parliament today are in prison. And it's just that if you have a drop of conscience at all, you have to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u81	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u82	Dear Ira Heratchenko, the hero who always stands on guard for freedom of speech, thank you for allowing me to make this gift! The Ukrainian community, the Ukrainian people, are asking me to meet with them every day to pass this hunchback on to our government officials. You know, according to Ukrainian tradition, when girls take out unloved grooms, they give them sausage. Now, the people of this power that we have today, they don't just love it, they hate it. And today the Ukrainian people are handing over to the government Azar’s gourd, and tomorrow they will come with the pitchforks. So after the presentation, I'm going to hand it over, and I hope that government official Ivan Ivanovich will bring this gourd into the premier's office so that you know how much people love you. Look at how rotten this garbuze is, like your authority, like that and the harpsichord. And now for this bill. I am also behind the decriminalization and introduction of European standards into criminal justice, because hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian people are sitting in jail for years without trial, without investigation. But, dear fellows, please think about it, and when the time comes, for this authority is not forever, how will you judge Azarov, who today, among millions of pensioners, veterans, disabled persons, the Chernobylites illegally, by way of protocol, takes away the benefits? Under what article will you judge other officials who today demean, rob Ukrainian citizens? So Timoshenko's case, you say, fell apart long ago, from the beginning, but you don't have to do bear service to Timoshenko. Because when you decriminalize this article, you actually stop under unrehabilitative circumstances. It will prove that it is innocent, and this article should be used against those officials who are guilty — against current officials. For "harkov gas contracts", for Moscow.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u83	Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Yes, Shishkina, faction of the party. The BUT faction, Fatherland, Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u84	Oleg, of course, needed a girl to deliver, not a boy. It's a little unconventional. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u85	May I have your attention, fellow officers? Well, if you'll excuse me! May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u86	Decent political suicides! Otherwise, I can't call you never again in the 20-year history of Ukraine, never before has Europe given us a hand today, let it be an associate membership, but it does. Such a chance will be lost today by Ukraine’s bitter and dull power that we have today. Well, can you do that? Everybody's saying today, the whole world's up. And Severinsen said that Janukovitch should be judged for "harkov contracts," which were really completely closed and signed under the spell, and it seemed like Ukrainian territory half a century ahead. And you're judging Julia Timoshenko! I've been in court all day. I brought Bogdan Futtey, an outstanding judge, a member of the Supreme Court of America who spent 20 minutes in court, took his head and said, "I can't sit here, Mr. Volodymyr, I'm degrading! It's not a court of law, it's a mockery." Everything is falling apart in front of your eyes, and you don't want to vote for this bill! This is your rescue, boys, because we're going to judge you for this law someday, if you don't change it now! Vote, please! There's an amazing chance to help Yanukovic. I don't know who's telling him to do this catastrophic nonsense that's long since been turned into the President. Vote for this bill, don't take sin upon yourself! I think it's a way out for you. Try to do so if you have just a little bit of conscience and humanity left!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u87	Vladimir Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the previous speaker, who received a cup of tea from the electorate, deal with him as well as with his feet and do not know where his children are. It's a name harpoon, and it's not a transitory one, so we need to take it home. [[Applause]] In fact, the point is that these same bills rotate around the same orbit again. Make a unique decision. If we set up such a tradition, I say again, we'll never get out of it. What Is Happening in the World? Are there similar examples? Yes, the prime minister of Iceland is called to account for the improper performance of his service duties, which were related to basic duties. He didn't steal anything there, he didn't have the benefit, but as an official, he didn't warn Parliament, the government as a whole about the crisis, he didn't read a letter to the National Bank about the risks that arise in the country. And today he is rightly called to account. Our situation is absolutely no different. Individuals who want to improve their image today have some personal relationship and problems with another state should not solve them at the expense of the Ukrainian people. But there's no such thing as a mess. For people to know, if the people of the Constitution are allowed anything that is not prohibited by law, they are now proposing to officials to give their freedom, of their own free will. He doesn't have the benefit of denying you something, but he's going to be killing you with help, making some, you know, unreasonable decisions, and all of this wants to bless Parliament, give it to an official. But we should not forget that the country is highly corrupt and should ask more of those in office.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, don't other factions insist? I would ask you, fellow honourable Members, one thing I will now put to the vote so that we can understand that we will need to seek compromise and dialogue in the process of considering a particular law. And I'm starting to think that the first thing we have to do is leave the door open for the dialogue. One of these phrases came from the Bible. We will come to power and judge you. It's our trouble, my respectable colleagues, when they come to power instead of organizing a job, they start judging. Let's think about it. Please! Dear colleagues! I urge you to do one thing: let's save the opportunity to find compromise. That's it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet. Dear colleagues, please! You're smart, please. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of European standards in criminal justice]] Registration number 9165. [[11:33:59]] For-160. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT" – "Batakushina" – 100, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 50, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, "The People's Party" – 0, "Affective" – 8. Dear colleagues! Proposals for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code are now under consideration. [[on circumstances that exclude conduct in criminal matters]] The reporter is Hennady Hennadiovich Moskal. Please, Hennady Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u90	Dear National Deputies! The whole world is saying that we've had the Criminal Procedure Code since 1962, and it's getting old, being with the Soviet Union, not that in 20 years of independence of Ukraine. Nowhere in the world does political decision - making bring criminal responsibility but political responsibility if there is no personal advantage. I would like to add to the article six, "The circumstances that rule out conduct in a case," which is that the case cannot be disturbed, and the criminal case is closed if the person is in a political position. And not so many of them are ministers, three deputy prime ministers and the prime minister of Ukraine. And let the election give them an assessment of the people, let them give an assessment of Parliament and let the President of Ukraine give an assessment for making such political decisions. Ladies and gentlemen! We have no responsibility. You say here that all are equal, and Mr. Olinick tells us that there are no more lawyers in the Party of Regions. And are the deputies of the Supreme Council responsible for making decisions? They're responsible for adopting the anti-corruption, paid-up Biometric Passports Act? So then let's say that everyone is equal before the law. So let us correct this error in the 1962 Codex. And he didn't make that decision -- he got out of office, and let the party go, and the people give him an evaluation. So, your honor, just so it doesn't go as far as we've been yelling here and most of the paedophiles are concerned, I congratulate you: yesterday it closed with a zero result.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u92	Sergei Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u93	National Deputy Pashinsky. Please, your performance. Next up will be Kirilo Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u94	Dear friends, I am absolutely convinced that today is an important day for the development of the Ukrainian State. Today, we still have an attempt to bring the vector of our nation's development back into civil order. Today we still have the opportunity to turn from that path of crime and crime that Janukovic and his team put us on, towards civilization and Europe. And I want to go to the entire MP Corps so that we can understand that clearly. If most people don't realize that by throwing Timoshenko away for playing absolutely groundlessly, it's completely cynical, without a crime component, they think that this situation, like a pregnancy, will go away on its own. No, you're compressing the spring, and I'm warning you, and we're all warning you: don't squeeze this spring to the end, because if there's a social explosion that you're taking with these seven steps, there's not going to be much space in this room, including. Timoshenko and Lucenko were thrown out for playing with absolute motive for political dissuasion and political fear. But no dictatorship has ever won in history in this way. And if the examples of Libya, Egypt, or more ancient examples of Romania teach you nothing, well, if you'll excuse me. Once again, like my colleagues, I appeal to the majority: don’t play with fire, don’t smoke this house, which is called Ukraine. Vote! This is your last chance to stay in this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u95	Kirilo Kulikov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u96	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Today, we do have a historic chance to resolve the issue of peace. This is a question that gives power the opportunity to get out of this situation, a question that will take a degree in society. Today we do not decriminalize separately Timoshenko or Lucenka – today we decriminalize political positions. Because, in fact, what Mr. Moscal said about the political decisions that are being made in this room, we have to judge every national MP, so let's look back and see what decisions are being made at our level, for example, in Kiev, when Kiev divides the land in Kiev. Let's make a decision for each individual MP who makes an unconstitutional decision to reduce the benefits to Afghans and black people. Why do they go to the Supreme Council? This is really a way out of a more complex situation. It's really a decision that gives the authorities the opportunity to get a face that allows us to start a dialogue. Another question that we have today is that it is very difficult in the world to explain what is happening today in Ukraine. I'm asking you to listen to me because I've been working, and I know how, and how hard it is to make a relationship. No one's going to deal with the situation, no one's going to figure it out. It is clichéd that there is political persecution in Ukraine. I don't care what kind of power it is, but whatever power it is, it has to prove in the world that Ukraine is a normal, civilized, democratic country. If we don't do it today, and I'm afraid I'm sure the signal will be given that -- not to vote -- we'll lose our chance. I call you to your senses, I call you to your state position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u97	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I'm not a lawyer, I don't have a legal education, I have some political experience in the walls of Parliament, and I'm probably going to say something that doesn't appeal to everyone. We are now considering proposals in the session room for bills that really matter and should, I'm sure, contribute to the search for what we need today for a social, social and political compromise. But respectable colleagues, but not cheap, disgraceful clowns, and no more methods of blackmail, pressure, or insult. In general, a slimy and incomprehensible role is played in the Supreme Council Hall by this exclamation point with a harpoon. So he and the men in the tents spent the night under the Supreme Council, so like a capricious bride, a hunchback brought here. These are not ways of finding compromise, and this has not affected us in any way but laughter. Colleagues, compromises are not blackmail or ultimatum. Deeply mistaken is the one who tries to tell us what may be going on in the future: Libya, Egypt. What are you looking forward to? What are you looking forward to? And they won't join Europe. Well, isn't it true that everything can revolve around some person? To be honest, I'd like to see here, in the session room, among the national deputies of Ukraine and Lucenka, and Timoshenko. And it's not our fault what happened now. I've got this feeling right now that someone's interested in them being there, and they're all over it. And there's the President's law, what doesn't he do for us? What doesn't he do, what doesn't he blow things up? Once again, compromise is then. Don't yell, you can see! Compromise is when both sides remain dissatisfied. We haven't found such a compromise in this room yet because we didn't want to look.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. [[on circumstances that exclude conduct in criminal matters]] [[Registration number 9230]] [[11:44:13]] For-162 Dear colleagues, now, one minute. For 162. The decision is not supported. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT - "Patkaščina" – 100, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 53, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, "The People's Party" – 0, "Afterfaction" – 7. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues, once again, when we're talking to you about something, we're trying to make a deal, we don't have these mutual accusations. So let's think about it this way: if the committee's prepared for, if we've considered the consideration of Bill 9221, let's see, if there's no objection, we'll bring it up on Thursday. And then, in preparing for the second reading, I think we need to look for and compromise on this bill. I would like to go to the final decision to refrain from these mutual accusations. When there's no objection, let's go this way. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now moving to the agenda of the Criminal and Procedural Codes Act. [[on the improvement of individual positions]] [[Registration number 9075]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on the Legislative Protection of Sweden's Law Enforcement Activities, Viktor Dmitrovich. Please, Victor Dmitrovich. The fact is, unfortunately, the author and the committee strongly deny the reduced procedure. Let him go after the whole thing then. Dear colleagues, let's do this: now the report and the answers to the questions, then the break, after the break, let's continue the consideration of this question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u100	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I was pleased to hear that the Chief of the Supreme Council and representatives of the majority, the Party of Regions, began talking about the need for compromise in this room. This is absolutely the right and necessary approach. Sooner or later, we're going to have to find this compromise. The bill that we introduced to Parliament in August has been a political compromise that, I think, could find a positive solution in this Supreme Council Hall. Dear colleagues, previous speeches by the national MPs regarding the inclusion in the order of the day’s analogous bills, have in many ways explained the need for the adoption of this law. So I'm only going to let myself stop at the main moments. First. Today, dear friends, in the 21st year of life in an independent Ukraine, our country has more than ever approached the moment when it can return to the bosom of European civilized countries. There are literally one or two steps left, and we can become associate members of the European Union, and join the Free Trade Zone, and get a visa-free regime, all of this is possible. As Prime Minister Donald Tusk of Poland said: "Ukraine is now at a distance of the outstretched hand." That is, today, dear colleagues, we can get through this distance. We can today adopt a decision that will remove the last obstacle to Ukraine's European integration. And it's a shame to talk about it, but the obstacle, dear friends, in Ukraine's European integration, is the very indisputable definition of article 365 of the Criminal Code. And this bill, which we are considering today, is about to be deleted from the Ukrainian Criminal Code. It was said here that this is a steel definition, that this is a rule of law that is not specific in nature, that it can be applied to any official. Consider, though, the respectable colleagues mentioned in this article, especially in the second part. You, on the other hand, who are not lawyers and who are lawyers, should understand that criminal responsibility under article 365 occurs only if the excess of authority or official authority has caused harm to the public, the personal interests of individual citizens or legal persons. What does that mean in practice? That means the next one. That any Ukrainian citizen or group of Ukrainian citizens, depending on the political situation that is in the country, may appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine, claiming that the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the President, the Minister and any other official who refers to officials, has exceeded their powers. And he was harmed by this excess! We have, as you know, in the country you can easily find experts who will sign the appropriate conclusion. And they are building legal grounds for imprisoning this person for years to prison. That is the essence of article 365 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. We suggest that this article be deleted. Dear colleagues! At the last meeting of the Conciliation Council, one of our colleagues said that it was a member of the Conciliation Council, and you know that it was 25 committee heads, 3 deputy heads of the Supreme Council, the Head and deputy heads of the Supreme Council, and factions leaders, 22 persons, colleagues, 22 persons were still in the criminal proceedings under article 365. We propose that this shameful period be ended when each of the following authorities oppress their predecessors by applying the Criminal Code as a means of political settlement. Dear colleagues, so much has been said. I think we are all aware that we need to make the important and necessary decision for all of us. Millions of Ukrainian citizens will never forgive us if we don't take this last step if we don't find a compromise here, if because of this inadequacy, the wrong definition of article 365 of the Criminal Code the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian state loses its European perspective. This law that John Grigorovich Kirilenko and I have introduced, it is not personalized, it does not apply to anyone, it corrects that mistake that was made for political reasons. At the time of the introduction of this rule of law, she played solely political motives. We suggest that we stop using criminal law as a mechanism for political dissuasion over opponents. Please, there are elections, there are Ukrainian voters who should give political evaluation to the actions of political leaders. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement Reviewed the bill very carefully. We listened to the positions of well - known lawyers, scientists, and lawyers, who were all, all of whom said that the deletion of this article would be painless for the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The application of article 365 does not seem to take place separately without the collection of other articles; it is the only article that does not need an article. Officials, respected colleagues, should be held criminally responsible only if his actions in the administration’s decision involved corruption, that is, if he personally had the benefit of doing so, he had a personal interest. In any case, the official's political decision is not criminal, it's a political decision, a dot. Honorary colleagues, the decision of the Committee, the majority of the members of the Committee, was adopted as follows: The Committee on Legislative Protection recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt in the first reading a bill on the improvement of individual rules of criminal, criminal and procedural law, which provides for the deletion from the Criminal Code of article 365, the deletion from the relevant provisions of article 365, and the amendment to article 365, with the symbol 1 and article 365, with the symbol 2 of the Regulations governing the legal status of the official. In addition, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council should be approved in the first reading on the basis of the adoption of the law and generally as a law. I think, dear friends, this will be our answer to both our friends in Europe and around the world. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's kind of uncomfortable to see and hear all the important people from the European Union, the leaders of foreign states, who are insinuating the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian government, the Ukrainian Parliament. Find this compromise so that we can accept you into the bosom of European civilized countries! Let us take this step, dear friends! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u101	The report is complete. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the rapporteur and co-author of the bill. Please show me. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear Viktor Dmitrovic, please tell me, I have a question for you as a lawyer, and I have consulted with my colleague Mishchenk, is it possible for me to make your amendments and additions to the presidential law, even if we go to a violation of article 116 of the Rules? That's the first question. The second question, the specific question. In 2008, the government of Julius Volodymyrna set a fantastic price for electricity for Zaporezium Aluminum: instead of 2-4 cents, as in the world, almost 10. The impenetrable aluminum unit stopped its work. I remind you that the Zaporozhye aluminum combination is the core of Ukraine's color metallurgy. Six thousand pensioners were provided with social payments only by this Zaporez metalworking combination of social funds. Loss is huge, crazy! We'll never play the Zaporozhi aluminum combination. In the same situation, because of the high price of electricity, it found itself ferrous, titanium - magnesia, and other combinations of Ukraine. Please tell me, is this something you need to answer for? First question and second.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, on your first question, I will answer in this way: if you remember, one of our famous deputies said that the Supreme Council could do anything. If the Supreme Council makes it appear that there was no violation of article 116 of the Rules of Procedure Act, it is certainly possible. As for your second question, dear colleagues, I would say so. You know, the Supreme Council made an unprecedented decision a few months ago when it wrote down 24 billion debts to the famous oligarchs. So let's look at all of these issues the way we should look at them. It was then a collegiate decision by the government, and today the government is also making a lot of decisions every day. If you and I were to sit down together, we'd find 20 crimes listed in article 365.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u104	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank you first of all for this bill, which is today. I think the whole of Ukraine will listen today and hear that we, in fact, are the Block of Yulia Timoshenko and NUNS, offering today a colossal solution to this situation, in which we have been taken by some of the rulers. And my question is specific. Once the right ideological arm of our President, Mrs. Herman said, "If I knew who put the President up like this, I would have done it with my own hands," is the quote, "with my own hands, I would have strangled him." Please tell me, you're an experienced person, a prosecutor, a member of many paintings, do you not know that name at times?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u106	Dear Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, I think this name knows all of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u107	Please, Mikhail Kosov, ask the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u108	Mikhailo Kosov, Timoshenko Street. Dear Victor Dmitrovich, you have rightly said that there is no such decision of an official -- whether it be a minister or a prime minister and so on -- that would not have caused a denial in some part of society. So, article 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, I've given it a lot of thought, it allows for a phenomenon that is unacceptable in jurisprudence. So the estimate approach, the estimate: that's what I think. And if I were Prime Minister, I'd do it quite differently. Clearly, then, it must be ruled out. But would you please tell me if similar legal standards still exist in the world? Because the whole world is yelling that this is an unacceptable norm for politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u109	Thank you for asking. You know, a few weeks ago, I met with representatives of the U.S. Department of Justice. And they couldn't understand Timoshenko's guilt. They're asking me, what's the corruption component of this process that she took, what interest she had. I'm saying there's no personal interest in it. It's about some mythical interests of someone's unknown. They say, well then it just can't be, it's not a crime, it can't be judged. A person for such crimes, respected colleagues, cannot defend himself. You understand that. We can't protect ourselves from this. What's going on right now. I'd like to draw all your attention to one simple detail. Tymoshenko didn't personally sign any papers, do you understand? Why are you judging her? She did nothing to make them subject to the rules of the Criminal Code. You can imagine, the people who signed the gas agreements, they're on the loose. Timoshenko as Prime Minister, who provided Ukrainian citizens and millions of Europeans with warmth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u110	Finish up, please. Vladimir Olijnik, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u111	Victor Dmitrovich! Of course, the question lies in such a plane. First of all, if the official is authorized to give direction in this way to the owner, there is no problem. If there's a surplus, you have to evaluate it. And the question is a little different. Now we've called for consensus, compromise, harmony and so forth. Please tell me, I'm reading a statement from the head of the BUT faction, this is Channel Five, October 3rd, two of these: "Julia Timoshenko against the decriminalization of article 365, hopes for a justifiable verdict." That's the first one. The second is, "The Presidents will not vote in favour of amendments to the legislation." Since the president didn't foresee a similar decriminalization in 365, in the context of what you're reporting, then I have a question: what's happened to the faction that you're taking your position, why are you reprimanding others and you can't figure out what to do in one head?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u112	Victor Dmitrovitch, if you don't mind. That's right. Since Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko is at risk, thank you. Ivan Grigorovitch, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u113	Dear friends! To put the dots on this issue, where we're being accused of not going to vote for anything, but just hoping for what the previous colleague said, I'm officially saying that on October 3rd, the head of the BUT faction wasn't on the 5 channel, that's the first. The other one. Our statement was, but on behalf of the representative of the Party of the Regions, who said literally this, "We're going to meet if he puts a billion and a half into the cash register." Friends! For that reason, we stated that we would not vote for such standards. Nothing and no one has been proved in a court of law that suffered material damage or exceeded the authority. It's a complete waste of time. That was the point of the statement that I actually made in the media in response to the charges of the Party of Regions, one of whose representatives said what I just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. And we'll have a discussion after the break. Please record for discussion of this bill. From factions and deputies. Dear colleagues, the law will be discussed after the break. I'm calling it a break until 12.34.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! We continue the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me remind you, we are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal and Procedural Codes. [[on the improvement of individual positions]] Now we're talking about factions, and then we're talking about MPs. From the faction "BUT" – "Paternity" will be performed by Mikhailo Kosov. Behind him is Yuri Carmazin. Please, Mr. Michael!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! All summer I spent in Kiev and attended all the trials at the Cave Court. On July 6th, Judge Kiriev removed me from the hall, although I was not in violation of anything, I merely told him one truth that I, as a representative of the sixty-six dissident generation, was very familiar with the fact that I met with the investigating bodies of the court in those communist Soviet times that we now call "totalitarians." Well, those courts were much more professional and, in their time, much more honest, because they knew exactly that the underground journal "Ukrainian Proclaimer", a law-abiding magazine, was published by Viacheslav Crnowil. That after Viacheslava Crnovola was arrested on January 12, 1971, the magazine continued to be published by Mikhail Kosov, but they had no evidence. They didn't have the "delicate body" stuff, so they dropped the Viachelav charge, and I was forced to release. Now there is absolutely no specific charge in the Pecher Court for article 365 of the Criminal Code against Julia Timoshenko. But this article is pure, as I said, appraised, because it seems to them that it has allowed abuse. There's a genre in journalism called "if I was the director." So if I were the director or the prime minister, of course I'd do much better. I would force Russia to give us gas at all for free, because through Dashava-Moscow, the gas pipeline still exists, they called out from Ukraine before the war and after the war. But the thing is, once again, it's an assessment approach. I have this offer. This article, mentioned by the Swedish deputy, is a disgrace to Ukraine. Hence, it must be removed from the Criminal Code because it is for corruption and bribery of other articles for officials. We voted in the first reading and draft Law 9221. I suggest, let's also vote on Law 9075 in the first reading. Then, without violating article 116, we will unite these laws and see that one, normal, common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u117	Thank you. I'd like to invite Yuri Carmazin. He will be followed by Zablodsky’s national deputy. And I'd like to put it on the board of all the speakers if you didn't. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u118	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express the faction's position that we will support this legislative proposal. Because article 365 provides for criminal responsibility for the excess of authority or service authority, that is, for the deliberate conduct of an act of service that clearly goes beyond the limits of the rights or powers conferred upon it if they have caused material damage to the rights and interests of individual citizens, either public or public, or to the interests of legal persons. But given that this situation is politically appraised, the actions of Prime Minister Azarov, who does not accept Ukrainian national deputies, also fall under these measures. And the actions of Prime Minister Azarov, who gives instructions on failure to comply with court decisions, and the actions of the leaders of the judicial branch of power, who give orders to freeze and do not execute judgments on children of war, and not to consider, nor to take, nor to take, and to the inklings. And the actions of former Prime Minister Yanukovich, today's President, are estimated to have spent $38.6 billion on Naftogaz as a result of those gas-supply agreements. And because of that, because of the Supreme Court, the Plenary of the Supreme Court stressed that the question was to be taken into account, whether it was obvious or not, that their conduct was wrong. I mean, we don't make decisions for one thing. No one will blame me for acting unjustly when it came to threatening the lives of today’s President Yanukovic in 2004. I went out to this rostrum and said that, Victor Fedorovich. No one will touch me when I've been called to account. I went out on this stand and on TV and said, "You're illegally drawing a person to criminal responsibility." But I want to tell you, Victor Fedorovich, from this high rostrum. When it comes to rulings of 31 April 2011 in the Timoshenko case, it is a decision to add documents to the criminal case made by Senior Criminal Prosecutor Psuk. These are other documents, such as April 31st about the review and so forth, which are on the case today. That's the best way for you today, for the authorities, is to go to the adoption of this bill. A slightly worse way out is to call this thing off. And you should think about it. You're the pedophile case that you stopped, stopped, stopped yesterday, and who's going to answer?....
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u119	Finish it, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u120	I'm done. Mr. Chairman, I would like you to ask the question of the responsibility of all those who have disgraced Parliament. And when it's shown that pedophiles are sitting here, announce that the case is terminated by this authority. And of course, pedophiles continue to govern, only apparently outside this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u121	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Thank you. As soon as the D.A.'s decision is made, I think there'll be an opportunity to announce it. Until we saw him. From the faction of the Party of the Regions, I invite Vladimir Oilynik to the performance. He will be followed by Yuri Prokopchuk, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, what is proposed to make this a bill? It is practically one thing — freedom for officials, and the law for the common people. And it's going to happen again. The one who stole it there, a sack of potatoes in court and in prison, and the one who abused his job and did considerable damage to the state, the interests of the people for a billion and more, on the will. Go to the polls, let the people score. And we go beyond the 19th article. I'm talking to the Democrats, to those who have recently shared a very interesting position, so tell people the truth that the January 19, 2009, treaty is in the national interest of Ukraine. It's working. Then stand in the position of Russian officials and say that we are here today people who have the lowest price and have no right to view this price. Stand up and defend Russia that by 2019 we have absolutely no right to change this agreement. Then tell the citizens honestly that they should thank Yulia Timoshenko for having the tariffs raised, the prices for the goods raised, because when they talk about it, your reaction is a good confirmation that you have everything boiling there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, give us a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u124	And when you talk about the price that went up for businessmen and oligarchs, sorry, it's priced and people pay for it. But when an oligarch receives a high price for gas, what do they do to be competitive? Stop the salary. Then let the voters thank you. Wages do not go up, and prices and tariffs are rising as a result of such an agreement. And to the end. You know, if you go to European standards like this, stop saying things that don't fit European traditions! European Commissioner Fuele emphatically stated: "The European Union does not consider Timoshenko and Lucenko to be political prisoners!" Why do you keep torpedoing the subject? And because there's no argument. And one more thing. Why is Julia Timoshenko against 365 today, decriminalization? And because that position is going to be a testimony to guilt. And we need to avoid responsibility in this way. People see it all. And they'll give you a political evaluation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u125	I'd like to invite Yuri Prokopchuk to join us. He'll be followed by Andrew Sanchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u126	Yuri Prokopchu, "BUT - "Paternality", Equality. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! What's going on in this room today? Article 365 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has been in force for 10 years, has been on the shelf for all 10 years. And it was only in the last year that Janukovich came into power that he began to exert himself intensely. Applying to Whom? To the leader of the opposition of Yulia Timoshenko, to Yuri Lucenka, to all ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Timoshenko and so forth. This is the statistic. And what is article 365 of the Criminal Code today? A colleague of Jacinyuk may have made an inaccuracy. This is article 27 of the 58th article on the enemies of the nation! It was when 30 million people in the Soviet Union were illegally shot, evicted when the best genofond of politicians, scientists, was lost! When all the chiefs of war were shot before the war -- Blucher, Tukhachevsky, Yaqar, Yegorov -- which then led to the consequences of those we had in the Great War of Homeland. What is article 365 of the Criminal Code? This is an article that allows today’s authorities to carry out political repression. This is the article that benefits this authority today, for recently, when held accountable under another article, 364, they shouted that it could not be. So, ladies and gentlemen, in order for us to really, in claiming to be a European state, we have to stop doing this, from the Soviet Union yet, article. In order not only to release someone from political repression or to get them out of prison, but also to make this article disappear from both our society and our jurisprudence. And there's more. I would like to address everyone, especially those who go to all the festivals with candles to the temple, and under the cameras, they show what kind of people they are. Remember, then, that besides criminal laws that are being misused, there is still the Law of God: Do not judge in vain, and you will not be judged in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u127	I would like to invite Sergei Mishchenka, who was given the word Andrew Senchenko. It will be followed by Andrew Pavlovsky, the "BUT - "Paternity".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to ask those people's deputies who are now in the official camp, who were judges, prosecutors, lawyers, investigators and those who have gone through more than one trial with their own hands. I've been through more than a hundred trials, too, so I want to ask you these questions. First. Have you ever had such experiences in your life: Have you ever had the experience of giving 3 days for 15 volumes? None of you will say what it was. I can tell you that now Julius Volodymyr and her lawyers have given 15 volumes, 5,000 pages to get to know each other. I want to ask you a question. Have you ever had one case in your life when the defendant asked for a lawyer, a protector, and she was not given an opportunity to defend herself? And Julius Volodymyrni was not given. Were the witnesses not allowed to stand trial, but only the charges, in your practice? In this process, neither defenders nor defendants were given the opportunity to defend themselves. And in your practice, were there cases where national deputies and trial participants were removed from the courtroom? But you won't call it that, because it's forbidden by law to do that! Was the arrest applied to a defendant who did not evade an investigation that did not affect the course of the investigation? And to Julia Volodymyrna, as a woman, a precautionary measure of arrest was taken. What about not allowing journalists into the hall? What about the final decision of the court not to allow Ukraine’s deputies and other citizens to be sentenced? So I can say that those accusations that exist there, which are letters from the Attorney General's Office and the Justice Department that they're challenging, directly say that there is no crime. But the Ministry of Justice -- it's in your time, it's those people who are now, who signed this letter now, it's not the Ministry of Justice, when they were under the government of Timoshenko, they're completely challenging the charges. So I can tell you, my dear colleagues who worked there, explain to your fellow MPs from a runaway camp, that, God forbid, it will come back one day when the power changes, by analogy, you can plant a kind of post under this article. God forbid we should be exposed to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, the word is Andrew Pavlovsky, the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland". Sergey Shevchuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u130	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland". Dear fellow countrymen, even today’s authorities themselves, I understand that with the imprisonment of Yulia Timoshenko, a grave mistake has been made that undermines the international reputation not only of Viktor Yanuković but of the country as a whole. And this is evidence of even Hannah Hermann’s words that she said that she would smother with her own hands the one who founded Yanukovich and decided to arrest Julia Timoshenko. Yes, and Victor Janukovic acknowledged that he regretted it, and he understood that it undermined his authority and authority in general. So let's compromise if you start to understand that! Why haven't we seen this in this Parliamentary Hall today? Why do you continue to ignore the calls and demands of the European community, the leaders of the European Union, the leaders of European governments, the United States government? Are you going to ignore it, and what do the people say, fight against the whole world? Come on, you guys! I don't want to talk about sanctions that can be applied, for example, to Belarus, that high-ranking people involved in human rights violations, with political persecution, will lose their right to travel to European civilised countries that will block your accounts in Cyprus. Your offshore accounts. More than three hundred dollars in this room! Think about it! You hide your capitals in offshors, they're in danger. So let's go to compromise so we don't have to go out at all. Friends, and we need to understand that the main objective of the persecution of Yulia Timoshenko is the goal, and this is the end of the signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union. But on the other hand, those who do, they don't really want to go to the Customs Union. They are. They want to chat in their swamps and consume Ukrainian resources and hide them in offshors, that's their main goal. But I think common sense must overcome the criminal nature of today's power. Well, when will you come to your senses when we find compromise? It's up to you. You have the right voices. We can make that decision, find compromise, there's a last chance. Do you want to repeat Egyptian events? Or don't God give the lefties? Don't bring it up! And I understand that now one of the goals of imprisoning the leaders of the opposition -- Yulia Timoshenko, Lucenko -- is to distract society from the deterioration of life, from what falls from a catastrophic purchasing power.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u131	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Eugene Kirilchuk will be next. Andrew School? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, please step forward from the deputies. So I want to express my own position. When Eugene Kushnarov, a late colleague of ours, was arrested in 2005, this led to misunderstandings and misunderstandings. Not only the persons of Kushnarov, but the charges. Because if the term "separatism," not "federalization" was then used in that famous Severodonian, but in the European Charter of Regional Self-Government, then there would be no trials. A few years passed, and instead of two, three, four then prisoners who were in the Syrian Union, the number of such political prisons increased several times and became several dozen. I want to talk about the trend, dear colleagues. What happens in five or six years when the power changes? The number of persecuted will be hundreds. Is that what you want? Do you want to keep rocking this pendulum? I don't want it to be in our country, for example. You know, in recent times, two resonating cases involving the former leaders of the state -- the Yulia Tymoshenko case, which is much talked about, and the case of former President Pinochet. Think about the pictures from Euronews and the other channels. A sick, malnourished former official is facing trial. He's sorry. You don't think there can be a repeat of this situation with today's guarantor: the catalytic, the sick, the malpractice, the friends who fled to Russia, the man who was intimidated, the society doesn't support it. It's not a fantasy, it might be a reality if we don't make the right decision today at this defining moment. And one more thing. The question of geopolitics, the question of Ukraine's historical path. It is clear that if the right decision is not taken in these days, the European Community will put an end to all our efforts to integrate into the European Union. How, then, can authorities or individual authorities act? They will encourage you to knock on the door and embrace the Customs Union in your arms to the Kremlin. This is the political value of today’s issues that we are considering. It will be a tragic turning point in the history of our nation. And so, of course, everyone who cares about Ukraine's future must today make a judgmental compromise decision not for the sake of your future destiny, for the sake of our future state.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u133	Andrew Schlell, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Teren Victor will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u134	Dear National Deputies! Dear radios and radios! The Honorable Presidium! I will not, of course, call for compromise for people who are not comfortable with it and compromise is a compulsive phenomenon for them. Because what is called compromise? This is when the desire of the parties to find the common ground makes it possible to make a decision. There's nothing to do with it. We understand it very well, with the representatives of today's authorities. Why was Timoshenko involved? Of course, it's a simple, trivial revenge multiplied by fear. And neither the desire for revenge nor fear has passed away in today’s authorities, as far as I can see from their performances, because the incompetence of today’s authorities is being demonstrated every day. Society will see it and evaluate it. This is understandable to today’s authorities, but in order to demonstrate in some way their power, they try to demonstrate their authority through the destruction of the opposition. It is not a high flight, nor is it a high possibility of present - day authority. When we talk about a path that could be taken through the decriminalization of an article that certainly smells like a trivial and serious Soviet mattress but does not want to be done by today’s authorities. They have aesthetic pleasure when the leader of the opposition is in the investigative isolation. A large part of them were once there, a large part of them were once there, but nevertheless, a sense of power, greatness, and power made them drunk just when the opposition was in prison. Believe me, even more drunk is the feeling of the firing of the opposition on the tanks, riding peacefully and shooting the opposition. You'll be even more pleased to have a picture like this. But what will this lead to? You know perfectly well that someone who sows a storm reaps quite another than pleasure. So it's never too late, even though I know you'll never find yourself. And I'd like to literally say a few words. You know very well that bad ends the one who gets off on the wrong foot. Your authority has gone bad, your authority has begun with terror and persecution, your authority is using the law enforcement system exclusively as a baseball bat or as an electric shocker. This is not a law enforcement job. And believe me, those who are now talking about what is important to Ukraine's European integration are very aware that this is what all the European integration routes are doing. When you talk about your need for cheap gas, you personally need it to produce cheap products and dispose of them in Europe. And don't forget that sanctions will touch not only the person but also the goods you want to take. So think about your future, don't get too excited about your children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u135	Teren gives the right to speak to Yuri Gnatkewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, today at the Mikola Tomenko faction, after my emotional performances yesterday, invited me to create a Communist platform in the "Timoshenko – Fatherland" faction. I think after today's performance he's going to propose that I create such a platform for the Party of Regions in our faction. What's the matter? The thing is, Julia Volodymyrna once called me a fan of the Party of Regions. That's why she called me so much that I was one of the main promoters of the negotiations with the Party of Regions that she once led with you, after knowing who was betrayed by the slogan, "The Oligarchs will pay the real price." I felt that if the capital had been legalized, I would have to negotiate with him. And she was negotiating with them, not fighting them. One man fought and defeated the capitalists, but then what happened 70 years later? And then the capitalists came back. I have a cabin in the village under Squire, and I'll tell you what the people say. And what the people say, I'll give it to you now, in your own interests. Victor Terrence told me that a woman at the market said to him, "You know, I want Julie to give a term like, well, one year so she can get out soon, and then she can give them all 10 years later." This is what the people at their own level think. And he says, "Well, what but July, we don't have anyone to judge in our country?" "And maybe -- they say -- we'll start with Kravczuk for a fleet that's built for no nuclear weapons; or maybe we're the guy who's handing out now after the guns have been delivered somewhere in the world enriched with uranium? [[Let my countryman forgive me]] " And who, let's say, gave up the gold stocks? Why don't we bring Kuchma here to the Cave Court for tearing down the colporteurs? Maybe we'll remind him of his earrings. The people say, "There are those who have robbed the state." And it really is. Maybe we have one factory or a large factory that was purchased without the use of fraud, which many people in this room can do, and outside this hall are now being drawn to the Cave Court and other courts? Dear colleagues! In the interests of your party, we must take over what is being done in the people. He's indignant -- he's not so indignant that July is being judged, but he's indignant that you and all the others who have robbed the state are not being judged. I understand it's hard for you to forgive her for calling on Midan, for calling on Midan's land forces to protect her from having a list of 330 companies she wanted to resell, that she reselled the Creature and took away, you know, who and who she's forced to buy Zaporoztal right now. I know that her program says that oligarchy clans are the main problem in Ukraine. Is there something wrong with that? She doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u137	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u138	But it says that the capital must be put into the service of the people. You're acting like this because you think you've come to power forever. In my political experience, I saw what was in my head.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! I would like briefly to clarify my position. In fact, I was talking about the fact that in my time, the Ukrainian Communists were trying to combine the national social idea, and in their own way, they were right. True, after that, the Bolsheviks shot them for being Ukrainian Communists. So every time I compare the activities of the Communist parties, I mention and highlight that there was such a flow of Ukrainian communists in the Ukrainian political opinion. And I don't think it would be bad for a party of Ukrainian communists to arise.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u141	Olga Bodnar, please. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u142	Honorable colleagues, honourable chairman, distinguished colleagues! Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Fatherland Party. We're dealing with a very serious question today that comes up in this room, at least in my memory, from 1998-1999, it's about decriminalizing our society. Let's take this serious step and see if what the bill actually gives us. You know, when I listened to the discussion in this room, I remembered the 1917 anecdote when the barista asked her assistant and said, "What's going on out there?".. And she says, "The revolution, the barrage.".. And she says, "What do they want? - They want there to be no rich. And she says, "Wonderful, my father wanted everyone to be rich." So in this case, let's decide if we want Ukraine to be a rich, powerful and powerful country. 20 governments have changed in our country. So let's be consistent then, let's get all the government officials for these 20 governments right now, let's get together and ask, and why did we turn off the light, why we didn't pay our pensions, why we had debts, why we had crazy inflation, why we were millionaires with you all and we bought bread for almost a million dollars. Yeah? Let's ask, we'll plant them all together -- and then we'll all eat 10 copies, because, in principle, the funding is going to be low. And then maybe somehow we'll increase the cost of the budget and somehow cover our travel costs to Cyprus. This bill, it says that there can't be a willful composition in that a person who exercises his authority in such high offices and takes decisions or other decisions is not making much of a college decision. Honorary colleagues, law enforcement, and all the lawyers here will confirm that there is a definition of what crime is and what mental composition is. In this case, we're talking about the fact that this article 365 that we're talking about is in no way compatible with what the officials are doing. It can really only be applied to its political opponents. Let's count, maybe it's been applied at least once? No, it's not. Maybe it was used at these times when it was scary in 1937-1939? Yes, similar measures were then applied. And that's when it was used exactly how it should now apply to the present power. So I want to tell you that you're uncomfortable with Timoshenko, you're uncomfortable with Lucenka. Well, you know, life is a long and happy life for all of us. But you know that it's this energy conservation law that's going to happen, and it's going to respond. I don't want to scare anyone, I just want our legal field no longer to have that possibility. So I ask you to listen to common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office commented on the bill. At the same time, and in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on the improvement of individual positions]] [[Registration number 9075]] Please vote. [[13:08:46]] For-144 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Regional Party is 0, "BUT - Fatherland" - 98, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 41, communists - 0, "Reforms for the Future" - 2, "The People's Party" - 0, "Afterfaction" - 3. Ladies and gentlemen, two factions have made a statement in accordance with the Rules to declare a recess. Is that how you're going to make a statement? Statement. Please. John Kirilenko will make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u144	Clearly, the unjust judgment against Julius Timoshenko is coming to an end. For the eyewitnesses of this absurdity, it has long been clear that the court case has failed and the imminent justifiable judgment that can still save the state, its reputation, its reputation, the reputation of the judicial system, and the image of power. But today, we cannot help but mention the violent lessons that must be learned immediately from this shameful history. The most important lesson is the lesson in memory. Is it that far back in January 2009? Did you forget the demolished gas crane and thermometer that longed for minus 20? The gas remained for several days in the EU countries, and in Ukraine it was the first time that it had been diverted from the west to the east, to metallurgical and chemical giants. They were facing an inevitable halt — a technological, technological, and economic disaster. Possible losses were estimated at hundreds of billions of dollars. In general, Alcevsk was expected by the utilities. Have you forgotten whose business was saved then? The wealthiest people in Ukraine in times of crisis, think twice. So the price of gas was inconvenient? How many telegrams and letters of despair did the government of Timoshenko receive during those terrible days? Their point was to save one! Did they forget how some at the time calmly burned on Christmas vacations, while someone skated on skis? And she left, arranged, and saved herself, without giving in to national interests. Why did you forget that? Europe has not forgotten. Another bitter lesson is that perhaps for the first time in the role of catalyst for this execution was the parliamentary majority. Who has adopted such judicial reform in an hour? Who took out the national jury? Who blocked the jury? Who was so insistent in lobbying the law on speeding up criminal proceedings? As a result, as Julia Timoshenko put it right, we received Lynch’s trial. And that's the third lesson of what's going on in this room. Think about it, and once again, I emphasize, in the end, the point of the accusation was that Timoshenko in this story tried to create a positive image of an effective manager. We're done. And in all of this, seven years of prison according to an article that predicts that the suspect had a premeditated plan of stealing for a useful purpose. Where is she, that goal? Where is the thief’s idea? People who care have learned yet another lesson. It's impossible to protect anyone in this country. When even such personalities are known, and like Julia Timoshenko, and like Yuri Lucenko, they are defenseless against the fallout. From ancient times, wisdom has come to our day, which says, "You want to have a country with a beautiful future -- develop art and crafts. You want to get in trouble, you fill up the prisons and blow up the machine." What country, then, is being built in us? Maybe it's time to think about it and stop this horrible hell machine mower before it's too late for every one of us here?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u145	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. If there is no objection, we have included a bill from the President of Ukraine on the humanization of penalties for economic crimes. That's my offer. Let's, if the committee's ready, we'll take it out on Thursday. And in preparing for the second reading, I would ask you to consider carefully all the proposals that will come to the bill in the form of amendments, additions and clarifications. I think this is going to be a more effective way. Is there no objection? Let's move it this way. Dear National Deputies! The draft Law amending article 34 and paragraph 1 of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Control is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Viktor Josephovich Matchuk. Correspondent is the Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy of the Forests of Igor Volodymyrovich. Victor Josephovich, can we put this to a vote? Here's the offer, for short, isn't it? May I? I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:14:35]] For the 220. Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u146	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! My bill is extremely brief, very concise, and it's aimed at correcting what we've adopted in the current year, the City Activity Regulation Act. The law itself contains a lot of positive points, it simplifies procedures, arbitrary procedures in the construction sector, but it needs some clarifications. Because of the fact that according to the law we have adopted, schools now need documents to demonstrate ownership or use of land to obtain permission to repair or reconstruct a large apartment building, a nursery, or a school. To be honest, more than 99 percent of all apartment buildings in Ukraine do not have such documents. Most schools, kindergartens, hospitals, and so forth have none. So by making the right decision in general, we've actually, without taking this one moment into account, created huge problems, when even with budget, budget, it's very difficult to repair and reconstruct those buildings that really need it. There is very little time left on the street until the end of the fiscal year, so I am very much asking you to make the necessary changes by voting in favour of the bill that I have proposed. My bill contains another rule. Since the adopted and already in force Urban Control Act provides that, as of 1 January of the following year, land will not be allocated for urban needs in the event that the population does not have documentation on zoning or detailed planning of the territory, and in the vast majority of the population, such documentation is not available, we will be given a situation where the land is effectively frozen to the construction needs of January 1, 2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u147	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u148	Thank you. The population simply did not have time and resources to carry out this documentation. I propose to introduce this rule into force on 1 January 2013 and to allow this documentation to be produced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u149	Yes, thank you, too. Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov, deputy chairman of the committee, will inform you of the committee's decision, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u150	Keep it up, huh? All right. The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the committee considered a bill submitted by our fellow MP from our committee to amend the 23rd article and the final position. The main scientific and expert office, after reviewing the materials, suggested that the bill should be drafted. There were many suggestions in our committee to complete and expand the article. And the committee made a unanimous decision: to support the bill and request that the bill be approved in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please sign up. No, we'll vote then. Sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u152	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! This is the case when a bill by a representative of the opposition is introduced, but which really solves serious problems. And I think there is no policy here, and the left side of the room, and the right side, and the Party of the Regions will vote. And we are for such bills to be introduced primarily from the opposition camp, which would help people who solve the day-to-day problems that would unite the hall. Therefore, I would like to thank Mr. Matchuk for introducing such a bill, which finds support in both the Cabinet of Ministers, and in Parliament, both left and right, and the “regions” and the BUT, and “Our Ukraine” will support. Thank you. The Party of the Regions will vote in favour of the bill. More of these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u153	Vladimir Yavorowski is handing over the right to speak to Yuri Serbin, the BUT faction, the Fatherland. The next one will be Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I will ask for our faction, and I think it will support this bill. The first question in this bill does not raise any doubts. It expands the circle of buildings that can be reconstructed without forming the right to land, if they are communal objects. And secondly, I don't agree with the committee's decision, nor with our author, and I'm asking you to consider it. What's it say? It says that the term is carried on. zoning of the plans for January 1, 2013. Look, let's not turn Parliament into a circus. Everyone understands what can't be done in one year. General plans to renovate and make zoning, because it takes several billion to do so. And actually, what we've evaluated with the Minregionbud is five to six years, and the fact is, we only have two institutions that can do it in a very good way. So if we're the responsible people, I suggest, let's put on a second reading, let's get some more information on Minregonbud, though I have it, let's put a real deadline for transferring this zoning term and the master plan. Moreover, so far there is no clear definition of zoning, which, in my view, is purely populist in terms of urban documentation. So I ask you to support the bill in the first reading, and the deadline for transferring updated master plans and zoning to make it real is 5-6 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u155	Thank you, too. Alexander Blackwolf, the faction of our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u156	Dear friends, it's obvious that Machuk is doing well. This is the right bill, and I support it with Serbian comments, so obviously it needs to be supported. But, dear friends, when we consider this law, we have to say that Azarov is bad, and the Cabinet of Ministers is in charge of him, who introduced this Law on the regulation of urban activity is bad, especially since the City Code has been drafted on the committee. Obviously, there were progressive provisions of the law to be introduced and not to invent anything that was not on the head at all. Indeed, the concept of zoning is unknown where it came from, never used. We had the concept of "general plan," and we had the notion of "detail planning of territories." That was more than enough to make it work properly. We've written down a completely ridiculous norm, but in most of the 99 percent of Ukrainian cities, there's no master plan, and the zoning can only begin by developing a master plan. So completely right Serbian, which says you can go to 13, you can go to 15, you can go to 20, you can't do that. Laws such as the Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities should not be adopted. As for the first part, it was obvious that it was also necessary to think when talking about the necessary documentation in order to begin the reconstruction. Evidently, in most of the buildings built in Soviet times, there are no documents that would be necessary to implement this. So they deliberately adopted such a bill to increase the corruption component of the Ukrainian economy, the Ukrainian government. And what's more, before this city activity regulation bill, the cabinet then adopted more than 20 sub-laws, which once again increased corruption, because for each act, it had to be rewarded somehow by the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear friends, this shows.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u157	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u158	I'm done. The level of preparation of drafts in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That's the end of it. I'm already talking to our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u159	Yes, Your Honor, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill needs to be finalized. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 34 and paragraph 1 of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of urban activities. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] Registration number 8696, please vote. [[13:25:00]] For 355 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! A draft Decree on certain measures aimed at preserving the cultural heritage of the national meaning of the city of Volodymira is a child of ancient Kiev with the foundations of the Decade Church. If Jaroslav Ivanovich does not object, may we consider a simplified procedure? Do you mind? I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:25:51]] For 212 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u160	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank Vladimir Mikhailovich for the operationalization of this very important issue in the daytime order, which is intended to address the extremely disturbing events that are taking place around the spiritual sanctuary of the Ukrainian people of the Tenth Church. As we know, the Tenth Church was built in 988-996 to celebrate Christmas. The great Prince of Kiev, Vladimir, was buried in this church, and the powers of the Princess Olga were preserved there, that is, one of the greatest shrines of the Ukrainian people. The entire period of the temple’s existence, from the 20th century when it was, until it was destroyed, was the temple of the Kyiv Church. The Moscow patriarchy began in 1589, centuries after the temple was destroyed. Nevertheless, today there is a paradoxical situation where there is a real threat that the temple of the Moscow Patriarchate itself will be built on the territory of the Decade Church. Therefore, given that the local level is unable to resolve this issue, we, Yuri Kostenko, have prepared a draft decision that foresees the obligation of the Cabinet of Ministers to take urgent measures to preserve, maintain and use properly, in accordance with the law, the object of the cultural heritage of the city of Volodymira, the child of ancient Kiev. Including stopping the construction work or any other work that could lead to a violation of the regime of use and protection of the cultural heritage of national importance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u161	Finish up, please. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u162	I appeal to the deputies to support this draft decree, to preserve one of the greatest shrines of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u163	Thank you. The committee will be chaired by the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Mr. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, after my novel that just came out, "The Longest Night of the President," I'd like to write a little mobile novel about the horde. About the horde that lives on this earth, but it's not its land, it feels temporary: let's stay a little bit, pick everything we can from this earth, and move on. I mean, that's exactly how we feel about our historical memories today. And the story around the Decade Church, an absolutely unique monument that has an amazingly tragic millennium biography of its own, when in 1240, in an attack on the Kyiv-Tarro-Mongol horde, the Chinese were hiding there -- and it crashed on these kyans. It was reborn in the 19th century, and in 1928 the Bolshevik authorities destroyed it. There are unique things left, there is a foundation, a true foundation. What passions around him today! It feels like someone's just getting their eyes dirty. Some recommend building a papal machete, which means a new completely church on these foundations. So to hide the true historical things, and that's the brick and that's the foundation. Only the ignorant may not understand what it is! What holiness! And no newly built church -- no visitors are going in there today, no tourists are going in there, because that's not interesting. This is going to be the same thing as our Golden Gates. Because of this, we are convinced that today, indeed, there are some adventurous ideas: something to build there. I'm not saying what a patriarch. None: neither Kyivsky nor Moscow or Greek Catholic -- no one has the right to build anything there today. It's supposed to be a unique museum, and we need to think about it. We had a committee meeting on the way out. What a terrible condition these foundations are today! There's some of them covered up with all these leaves, and they're splintered, and all that sort of stuff. But someone's itchy. Come on, let's build something there! Nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u165	Microphone, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u166	I finish, and I'm saying, what Jojik did, thank him, but this is another test. Let us vote so that no one interferes. Let us preserve this for our offspring. If we're not clueless, maybe they'll do better.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, I would like you to sign up for your position on this bill, if you insist. Please, Mikhaylo Kosov, "BUT" faction, "Paternal Motherhood." Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u168	I want to continue with the idea that our committee chairman, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, has concluded. So it's not at all that there should be a church of one religion or another building. The point is that no one should build anything on the sacred remains, the ants, the foundation. In addition to what has already been said, the site is marked with many memories of the pre - Christian period. After all, there is still burial of pre - Christian soldiers, some apparently and family funerals were at that place to Prince Vladimir and Prince Olga. They're completely unexplored. So if you build something there, how, in what way? What, new boilers kicked or piled stones or bricks, building materials on the foundations that are already there? It's totally unacceptable in history, there's one thing to do, what it's called, museumization. So we need to make sure that people can see it, and there are such monuments in the world. It can be found, whether the material is transparent or transparent, and you can see that there is still a quality of access to it. In a word, make it the museum of ancient Kiev and all that it has to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u169	Vladimir Karpuk faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u170	Vladimir Karpuk "Our Ukraine". I don't think I should thank you for introducing the bill, but I think it's just a place that's clearing up under the Peacekeeping Bill. I continue to ask you to pass the word to Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u171	Stanislav Arezhvitin. Vladimir Zubanov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u172	Honorable National Deputies, a respected Ukrainian community. I would like to express the opinion of the All-Ukrainian Foundation for the Remembrance of the Historical and Architectural Heritage of the Name of Olesia Potter, and I am a member of the government of this organization. And by the way, this organization is the leading public organization on this very issue that we are considering. Thus, when the government learned of the initiative to build a building that was unclear, or to reproduce incomprehensible terms of the tithe church, they were, these people who spent their entire lives trying to recreate the monuments, the Ukrainian monuments, they were shocked. This is the fourth attempt to play incomprehensiblely. And the decision that is being made today must be supported today. On this point, the Gonchar Foundation, the All-Ukrainian Memorial Fund, wrote a letter to the President of Ukraine about the need to stop any construction there. Because there's 16 choices to what this decimal church might have looked like. There's a national concept of a targeted scientific and technical program for the engineering rescue of Kiev's buildings. And by the way, if you start work there, everything will go there, especially the Andrivian Church. So those who want to do the construction work have to read this government program, signed by 20 leading state institutions. Clearly, this monument should serve all the communities we have in Ukraine. It should not serve any church community. This is a fact. The important thing is that there are still pre - Christian historical monuments. All our cultures, which were still pre - Christian, were intertwined there. This must be preserved. No construction. Let's keep what's there now. Thank you. Support the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u173	Vladimir Zubanov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u174	Thank you. Well. The question of the Church of Decain is very serious and complex. And you know there were excavations by the Institute of Archaeology of the Academy of Sciences. And under the foundation of the Decade Church, the found dwellings of the 19th century are the early Slavs. Thus, this monument is even more powerful and valuable to our nation. But she's in a terrible state today. And to try to limit any action or power, or the Kiev community, to order this monument by decree of the Supreme Council, I find it inappropriate. And that's why it's not an option. But I would like to draw further attention to the following. These are the authors of the project and those who supported it, they mentioned the question of the Moscow Patriarchate, and they fear that the Moscow Patriarchate could be the church itself. But somehow at the same time, they forget that their leader, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, as Mr. Cloud said, is a well-known politician who sold Ukraine to the same Russia. So here's a double standard: criticizing the Moscow Patriarchate -- and at the same time, leader Julia Volodymyrovna sold Ukraine with all our interests. So we have to be consistent here. Then at least start criticizing your leader. That's why I think the determination to regulate these issues is inappropriate, and the government and the Kiev community need to be involved, and the issues are being resolved professionally in this direction. I don't mind taking this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u175	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u176	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! The first, very brief explanation why we've already pressed the "minus" button is only because we want very much, on the basis of the very issues that should unite us, on the basis of the spirituality of our largest spiritual centers, including the Decade Church, not to turn these issues into some resistance on religious ground. We are troubled by the interfaith conflict on this subject. For the time being, we feel that it is best not to touch the subject. Now, as far as the position of our MP group is concerned. We will vote in favour of this draft decree. This is our principle position. Once again, without joining the religion that claimed any wishes. The thing is, it's really a spiritual sanctuary. The thing is, we have to go there and meet that prayerful place, those stones that are the foundation of our Christianity, which is the foundation of our history and culture. I'm just amazed that a culturally intelligent person -- our colleague Yuri Miroshnichenko introduced a bill to do what, unfortunately, my fellow countrymen do when they burn beautiful old 200-300-year-old wooden churches, because there, you see, their priest is close enough to build monsters with bricks or concrete that are still sewn with plastic cars. This is roughly what is written in that bill that we have to stop by adopting the law that our colleagues, Jojik and other deputies have passed. This bill is a direct continuation of the current legislative base of Ukraine today, written out how such monuments are to be guarded. It is written that they cannot be mutilated; they cannot be constructed on top of them. It is the State’s duty to museumize these monuments. And this is a continuation, this is actually an additional point to take the responsibility of Kyivsky for this monument from the Kyiv Council, which allowed for a contest with conditions that are simply unacceptable and contrary to the law, and to hand over to Kabmin the responsibility to carry out the law in force today. I ask for the support of this bill on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u177	Peter Cibenko, faction of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u178	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Ukrainian Company has examined very carefully the draft decision proposed by colleagues, and I would like to express this position. Well, dear colleagues, the national deputies of Ukraine, I welcome you with the fact that we are starting to make a decision, responding to rumors. Because I understand that if someone had made a decision about building something at that point, this document would certainly have been added to the draft decision -- no. It reminds me of, you know, this kid they're taking to the hospital, and she's crying. She is asked: Why? And the child answers: “It is likely that it will hurt. ” That's what we do in this case. This is the first time. And second. Dear colleagues, we have the Law, not the Order, but the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. What will the decree add to the law that has already been passed? So we don't think there's any need for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion. Well, please, Kirilo Kulikov. What do you got? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u180	Yeah, I'm saying in the microphone. From the kyans, at least. I'm asking you a lot of people who are really taking part in Kiev's issues, I'm asking you, for once, let's listen to the Kiev community, what the Chinese really want to see. I was born there, I grew up there, I have the right to think that we want to see the tenth church. Why should we be resolved by the Supreme Council? Why should these questions be resolved by someone else? This must be decided by the community of Kiev. Unfortunately, the city of Kiev today has a public council, which is the pre-election headquarters of the party of power, but these must be citizens. And in Kiev, there are enough citizens who want to make decisions and who want to take responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. We've been discussing this, it's clear to everyone. The main thing is that this monument must be preserved, and it is clear that there is no accurate drawing of the reflection, but how to implement the reconstruction initiatives. That would remind me of trying to rebuild the Colosseum, something like that. In this case, when such pressure is on the way, an appropriate decision has come to light. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Here the committee proposes to take as a whole. We'll see for ourselves first, and then we'll talk about the whole thing. So I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft decree on certain measures aimed at preserving an object of cultural heritage of the national importance of the city of Volodymira, the child of ancient Kiev with the foundations of the Decade Church. Registration number 9128. Please vote. [[13:43:44]] For-164 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: Regional Party – 0, "BUT" – "Batakushina" – 75, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 46, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, "The People's Party – 20, "Afterfaction" – 3. The decision is not taken. The draft decision was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our morning session for 15 minutes, taking into account your request. [[B in m in s a l in]] A draft decree on the 180th anniversary of the Russian Trinity and the 175th anniversary of the Almanac "Dnistrov". The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Spiritual Culture, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, why don't we take a brief look at this? Because we can't make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u182	I am. Obviously, let me do it both as an author and as a head.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u183	Then, if you don't mind, I'll put you to the vote in short, four minutes you'll have.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u184	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, I am voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:44:56]] For 219 Decision taken. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski will be both a reporter and a co-reporter. That's four minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u186	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Of course, I am very sorry and sorry. It seems that we have taken shame on our heads that we have not voted for it to be simple. Just don't do anything yet, let's keep it as it is. We didn't want that either. We've done so today, in our legislative body, so it turns out that we've made out, well, I mean, the people's deputies, we've disemboweled individuals from this amazing trinity, which includes Markian Shaškević. He is the most prominent figure, for in Lviv a monument, a large museum in his village on the road to Kiev, has already been opened to him. He, as it were, remained an absolute figure, and we even introduced this bill here, and I no longer remember who the author of the bill was. Because of that. Then, so we decided to separate the Russian Trinity, and then the Russian Dniestrow Rousalka is the first piece they released. Because, why, what motives, what was the motivation for introducing this bill? It was the only one: to bring one block to society's attention to, frankly, the half-forgettable page of our Ukrainian history, which primarily concerns Ukraine of the West, not Central and Not Eastern. And it would be very good if, in the following year, let's say, one celebration to celebrate the whole block of these questions: and the output of this unique book, "Dniestrov Rusalka", this collection, and the formation of this group of "Russian Trinity" and its founders, of course: both Shaszkewicz and Golovatic and Vagilevich – all three. I'll just explain a few words, because this page, really, maybe not everybody knows about it, because I have a little bit of time on this one. You may recall that someone knows how this Slovenian brotherhood in Kiev, including Taras Shevchenko, was formed, or something similar, just a little earlier, of course, happened in Western Ukraine. Three highly educated patriotic intellectuals went to the people, it was really one of the first to be found on the western Ukrainian lands of the nation, to go, to collect Ukrainian folklore, to collect some unique documents and so on, and decided to release their collection of Rusalka Dnistrowa, where for the first time, I emphasize, where this is the first actually printed piece in Galicina, in Western Ukraine, written where I live, I emphasize, live folk Ukrainian language. It was an act of great courage at the time. It was Austria-Hungary. This collection was then banned. We managed to just distribute it there in good hands, so to speak, but it was a unique signal, it was a signal to all the great Ukraine, as they called it and still called it on Galicina, a signal to Ukraine that it was Ukrainian land. It was very interesting to see another position that they promoted everywhere, that all those arms, dialects that are in Western Ukraine, that's all the Ukrainian language, that's the same basic Ukrainian language, only it has certain dialects, just like it has today, of course, there's Zacarpathian, let's say there's a dialect, and my dilapidated dialect there, and so on. Because of this, it was truly a unique, unique phenomenon. And it would be very good, there's no politics here, it's just a unique cultural fact that would unite Ukraine. Another such messenger would be Central Ukraine, and Eastern Ukraine. That is why I propose to celebrate this Jubilee next year. It's a small cost. But I think, in order to preach and tell people that such a fact was, indeed, a unique, beautiful fact that is approaching.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u187	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u188	The fact that unites Ukraine and draws us closer to both Western Ukraine and East. Please vote for him, at least a little rehabilitate for your previous vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? If anyone insists, write it down. Demyanchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u190	Please pass the word Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u191	Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u192	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I'd like to point out to the honourable reporter, to the head of the committee, and to everyone that we've recently turned the Committee on Culture and Spirituality into a committee by date. Let's take a special decision from the Supreme Council -- and rename it from the Committee of Culture and Spirituality, into a committee by date, by designation. Vladimir Alexandrovich! I would like to draw attention to you, to the leadership of the Supreme Council, to all citizens of Ukraine, to the fact that in 20 years of independence Ukrainian culture has fallen into such a decline that we no longer need to be allowed to talk about the question of the closure of cultural buildings, that the libraries of 20 years are not being filled with books, that the share of gross national income that goes on to develop culture and spirituality is an absolute pit. Let's put once in the debate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the state of cultural development itself. I was just addressing you to the committee that in Lubna County, local authorities are closing down and deciding to demolish a city culture that will never be built there again. And your committee that you run has not taken any action: even if you set up a working group, go to the place, look, look at the whole population of Ukraine, to protect at least one, not all, but at least one cultural institution. It's not there. But the dates go, that's right, we have to celebrate, but the committee is by date, not by culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u193	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u194	Vladimir Karpuk. I would like to deny the previous speaker because every year there are decrees to mark the memorial dates and the Jubilee, and I have filed, and Vladimir Aleksandrovich has made such decrees. Unfortunately, it is not supported by the majority, including the faction of Communists. And so, of course, when decisions are made to the Committee and the Supreme Council to mark certain dates, the committee is forced to consider them. And I think it's very objective, taking the most important to the Supreme Council Hall. But unfortunately, they're already executive power, which is created by the majority, not really at the state level, not at any cost, not taking any action. Even Lesi-Wolinski's jubilee, which was celebrated at this level, was practically only on the Volin level, Novograd-Wolinski, and somehow went unnoticed in Kiev. Such facts can be cited in many ways. What was proposed by Vladimir Alexandrovitch is a valid decision, that's for sure, because the creation of the Russian Trinity and almanac are just the sprouts of Ukraine, the sprouts of Ukrainian thought, the Ukrainian act and conscience. And so I propose to vote without any politics for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u195	Thank you. National MP Grivkowski. He's refusing. Please, Hennady the Bull. Then there's the school. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I suggest you don't argue, because it actually looks very strange. Let's do better in the budget that we're going to adopt for 2012, and we're going to provide the Ministry of Culture with so much money that we don't have that kind of conversation. And the MP's Group on Reforms for the Future considers it necessary to support the draft decree on the 180th anniversary of the creation of the Russian Trinity and the 175th anniversary of the release of the almanac of the Rusalka Dnistrov. Today, it may be difficult to overestimate the significance of these events for the establishment of Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian identity, and the unity of our nation. Because the Russian Trinity actually started a national cultural rebirth on Western Ukrainian lands. Therefore, the MP's Reform for the Future will have to vote in favour of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u197	One minute, it's school, I already called school. And then Michael Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u198	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Of course, I will also urge you not to argue. I understand that for many there is a Ukrainian culture, perhaps not that close. But it must be understood that for most, the vast majority and the dominant majority of the population of Ukraine, Ukrainian culture and spirituality are close and related. And out of respect for them we must, and we must, and we must make appropriate decisions here. There is no other mechanism for marking and celebrating such dates, which is essential. Because, of course, in Lviv, in Lviv, and Galicina, everyone knows both Shashkewicz and the Russian Trinity and Rusalek Dnistrowa. But sadly, in the East, these questions are often ignored and not known. And that's what the problem is, is to tell the level, the significance, and the greatness of Ukrainian culture, and the spirituality in Ukraine. And of course, people who despise, don't like Ukrainian culture, they're in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u199	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u200	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. Well, what even the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality is doing is a draft decree on the 180th anniversary of the creation of the Russian Troika, the key word "Russian," which says that there's a vision in both the left and the right! That we came out of an Alma mater, from Kiev Russia. That only the mutual enrichment of Russian and Ukrainian culture would raise Ukrainian culture to an appropriate level, that only friendship between our brotherly peoples, Ukraine and Russia, would contribute to both peace and the prosperity of the two brotherly peoples. Thank you, Head of the Committee. The keyword is "Russian." I propose to maintain friendship between our countries!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u201	Adam Martinyuk. Please calm down, dear fellows, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, I would ask those who speak not to politicize the fact that everyone who has studied the school curriculum conscientiously knows everything. That's the first one. The other one. I want to remind, especially the Lvivians, who don't know what class they went to back then, but in 1988, when I was secretary of the City Party of Ideology, I headed the headquarters for the construction of the complex dedicated to both Shaškević and the Russian Trinity. So let's support it. But talk less, and let’s do more.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u203	Dear national MPs, dear colleagues, let's move away from politics. If there's a word for Carpathian or Galician, that means that. Ukrainian. And let's, dear fellows, I ask your attention, let's agree that this was a phenomenon in Ukraine's spiritual life. This was either the beginning or the great impulse to awaken the Slavic peoples. We speak for the friendship of the Slavonic nations. So again, it's people who have done a huge job for all of Ukraine. And for understanding, what is Ukraine? And the word "Russian" and "Russian" in Western Ukraine was the meaning of the Ukrainian after World War I. I'm asking you. I'm voting on the proposal for acceptance on the basis of the draft decree on the 180th anniversary of the creation of the Russian Trinity and the 175th anniversary of the release of the Almanac of the Rusalka Dnistrov. [[Registration number 8636]] Please vote. [[13:59:02]] For 351 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the draft decree as a stand-up. No warning? I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:59:28]] For 347 I'll take the order. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is to consider another draft of the 100th anniversary of the birth of the Hero of Ukraine, Alexa Hoornik. The reporter will be Zeno's Skutak. The narrator is Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, we have just 15 minutes, I ask you to support the proposal to consider the issue of the cancelled procedure. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u204	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u205	Just a minute. Just a minute. Let them vote. [[14:00:15]] For 227 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u206	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, is 100 years away from the birth of the Ukrainian dissident, political prisoner, the Hero of Ukraine, Alexa Gornik. The native of the Atonement of Alex the Mountain was actively involved in open protests against the politics of the Polish authorities regarding the oppression of Ukrainian language, the humiliation of national dignity. In 1937, he was sentenced to 5 years in prison in Poland for his statements against the actions of the Polish authorities and appeals to Ukraine’s independence. In 1939, the Soviet authorities added to Alexi Gournik another 8 years of concentration camps, which did not break his desire for freedom and independence in Ukraine. Realizing that any opposition to the Russianization of Ukraine, to the pressures of the Ukrainian nation in the Soviet Union, is being carefully silenced, Alexa Hoornik chose only the possible form of protest. On January 21, 1978, the year before the 60th anniversary of the declaration of independence of the Ukrainian People's Republic near the monument to Taras Shevchenk on Montenegro in Canoe, he carried out an act of self-incineration. Earlier, Alexa Hoornik wrote his own label of patriotic contents and scattered them around his own sacrificial fire. Despite all attempts by the KGB to silence this event, it has gained publicity not only in Ukraine but also worldwide. Evidently, Alexa’s heroic act not only is worthy of the sight of his contemporaries but also serves as an example of unselfish service to the native people for their offspring. The Ivano-Frankiv District Council has adopted a request to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the adoption of the 100th anniversary Decision of Alexa Hoornik, whose project is proposed for you. [[Registration number 8661]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u207	Thank you, too. Javrovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, reported on the committee’s decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, our constituents! I want to answer my colleague from Lviv about the date committee. It does, and it'll do as long as you make your proposals, and that's your offer, you make it. Volodymyr Mikhailovich and I agreed and asked you, let's take one single list of these dates, and there we can even go for some compromises. Someone on one side is going to meet the other, and we can make some national marking, not improvise one, the other, the third, the fourth. Sometimes it's secondary, but then they vote for it because they're introduced by regionals, let's say. Come on, I'm in. And as for dates, we're going to be giving historical and all that. If you are interested in just one date, November 7, 1917, well, please note, but do not prevent others from marking our historical dates. About Alexa Gorenik. The author of this decree told you his biography. Believe me, reading these means that the encyclopaedic material about the Hoornik is now being seen in the morning by this inflamed man lying in the snow near the monument to Taras Shevchenk. And realize that this person, well, I think anyone can understand, there was no fake here. Put your life in order to signal that Ukraine should become a state that must have its own language, its own history. We just, well, before this man's memory we don't have the right to vote against. And two, what I'd like to say. His own son, Alexa, who, too, I think, Alex, if I'm not mistaken who he was. () [[B in m in s a l in]] And, Eugene, if you'll excuse me, Eugene Hoornik, who seemed to be two cadences here as a national deputy and voted with us. Look at the continuation of my father’s position as son today! Because, well, I think we should just vote for it, just to remember this person. He's gone, but what he's done, you know, it's a unique case, it's so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u209	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u210	So pure and clear of every feat, and what Hero gave him, I'm sure it might be one of the best heroes these golden stars hang today, like Boris Belasch, for writing poems and carrying Janukovich's beer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Names, please. Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Then there's Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u212	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, Ukraine had found the independence it had sought for ten centuries. And among those who added to Ukraine's long-awaited status was Alexa Hoornik. You know, today a lot of people have said from this important rostrum, and we're talking about this at a meeting of the MPs, and nobody even wanted to say no. We unanimously supported this decision, and we're going to vote because they're heroes. But I'd like to turn on behalf of the faction, and I'd like to draw your attention to the following. This is the first person convicted of article 54 of the tenth U.S.S.C. Penal Code: "Anti-Soviet Propaganda." This is the person who in those days, in 1939, and then in 1978 she found the strength to go up and say no, little when he was alone. But I would like to remind you of what was written in that card they referred to today. By the way, it was published only in 1992 and has long been a secret for Ukrainians. It was published by "Literature Ukraine", which was written in Russian, and it said, "It's a protest against Russian occupation in Ukraine. This is a protest against the Russianization of the Ukrainian people. Long live the Independent Ukrainian Assembly Power, Soviet but not Russian! Ukraine is for Ukrainians! As a sign of the sixtieth anniversary of the proclamation of the independent Ukraine by the Central Council of 22 January 1918, and the signature: “22 January 1978 in protest burned by Gyrnyk Olex of Kallus”. This is the only way to protest in the Soviet Union. A low tribute to those heroes who could write those words. Praise the Ukrainians and glory of Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u213	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u214	Please give the floor to the head of the Alexa Mining Foundation Yuri Gnatkewicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u215	Yuri Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, I remember very much the days when Kiev heard rumors that a sick person or an alcoholic had been burned in Cane. And it was only among the Ukrainian patriotic environment that we learned why Alex Gorenik was burned. After Ukraine became self-sustaining, we organized a foundation in the Enlightenment of Alexa Hoornik, who rewarded our patriots for the national patriotic upbringing of young people. We already have 60 winners of the Alexa Hoornik Award. But the fund suffers from moneylessness. And you know why? Because we have a lot of capitalists, oligarchs, but unfortunately, there are no Ukrainians among them, and there are no nationalized people. Why? I want to tell those people who don't like nationalists that the Mountain was actually an internationalist. Do you know what he was set up for, as it were? For what he saw, it seems that in Lviv at the station, Soviet encavedists plunged into the wagons of Poles and beat them, and he stood up for them. And that's why he got concentration camps. It was for those Poles that he stood up for when he opposed Polish chauvinism for the Ukrainian state. Dear colleagues, I think the discussion of how we're going to take this decision would be very relevant. I think we have one important question that we have not solved: it's a national issue. A language issue in Ukraine. And that's what you're feeling. I wanted to tell you as a Ukrainian nationalist: we have the opportunity to build a tolerant national, language-based state. What are we still doing? We just push each other, they call you bandits, nationalists, we're already called fascists, we call you chauvinists. And once we sat at a round table together, did we talk? I think we have all the possibilities today to build the model that we're talking about first.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u217	Microphone, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u218	To Alexa Hoornik himself, a model of an interesting tolerant Ukrainian state, where everyone would be well and developed Ukrainian language and somewhat protected and Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u219	Thank you. Vladimir Zubanov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u220	Yeah, it works, yeah. I'm proposing that this decision be sent for processing, not because I have something against Alexa the Mountaineer. We have so many people and figures who are known to be honored and respected. We had a conversation with the Committee on Spirituality and Culture, which is that not only do we need to have a desire to celebrate at the state level, but there is a regional level, there is a city level. And when you ask the question, the area insists that either one figure or another be marked at the level of Ukraine. What does the area itself do? Is she celebrating? Oh, no. They don't get their hands up. Why do we want to drag everything here to the Supreme Council and here to celebrate any date at a high level? So there's a regional level, a district level, a city level. There are figures, in fact, that do not raise any questions, that unite. For example, Lesia Ukraine. And Balaklavia, there is a monument in Crimea, and there is a museum in Yalta Forest Ukraine. Taras Grigorovich Shevchenko, Danilo Galicki, Jaroslav Wise – they unite, they have their dates. So let's not push a lot of dates here, but let's keep the heroes of the regional level at the regional level. It will also be a sign that we have a culture that rises, that spirituality is restored. That's why I think we should go back to the question of date-fixing in the future and send this decision back to work. And by the way, next week, the Academy of Sciences has released the last volume of "Ukraine: Development Chronology from 1917 to 2010", where there are many, many answers to data, including by prominent figures. I urge everyone to read this encyclopedia, there will be a lot of clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u221	One moment, Sergey Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u222	Sergey Pavlovenko, faction of the National Party. Please pass the word to Zarubin Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u223	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u224	Dear colleagues! Mankind will always remain in the earthquake, in the mud, if it disrespects its prometheus. Prometheus is hard -- clearly, Prometheus is ahead of time, they're on the edge. It's easier to be in the crowd, easier to be a soldier, harder to be ahead. The People's Party faction unanimously supports Alex Hoornik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u225	Dear colleagues! Please, Kulczynski one minute. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u226	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Mikola Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear and venerable national MPs! I'd also sign the words of my colleague Zarubinski, but I'll make that accent. When Jan Palach burned himself in Prague, protesting the Russian occupation of Czechoslovakia at that time, today he is honored by the whole Czech Republic and Slovakia, he is known by the whole world. Who knows about the Ukrainian martyrs? Because they are truly heroes and stars, stars that shine for generations and generations to come, to preserve their land, to love their people. What's the crime here? There's no crime here and there's no cheating, there's no regional marking, there's no regional hero level -- no, it's all a Ukrainian hero. And a nation that doesn't know these heroes will have no future. Doesn't that make sense? I ask you all to appreciate this man's feat in a time of complete darkness.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u227	National deputy Volintz, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u228	I learned today that we have such remarkable people, unfortunately I didn't know about it. I'll tell you what an interesting form of struggle the gentleman has chosen. Unfortunately, his predecessors, Shuhević and Bendera, other nationalists, chose another form of struggle. If they had chosen this same form of struggle, how many innocent people would we have saved in our own time! And about this gentleman, I'll say one thing: how many people were there during independence: the same miners, the same teachers who were driven to despair, and they also burned themselves, and we don't remember them for some reason. And if we remember every suicidal person and make it a big date, I don't think it's that important. The Communist faction, understandably, will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-05-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. May I have your attention, please? I'm going to put to the vote now first the proposal for acceptance as a basis, and after the support, we'll continue to determine if there's support. At the same time, I draw attention to the committee's recommendations on the need for changes and clarifications to this draft decision. So, taking into account the comments and recommendations of the committee, I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Decision on 100th anniversary of the birth of the Hero of Ukraine, Alexa Hoornik. [[Registration number 8661]] Please vote. [[14:16:22]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Honourable National Deputies, evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm sorry. And there was a second suggestion: to return to the committee for further work, that is to say for the first time again -- that's what the proposal sounds like. I am voting for the proposal to return the bill to read again – this is a draft decree marking the 100th anniversary of the birth of the Hero of Ukraine Alexa Hoornik. [[Registration number 8661]] [[14:17:18]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you for finding an understanding. Dear colleagues! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Parliamentary hearings will begin at 3 p.m. The topic is extremely topical, and it refers to the problem of reforming the system of the Ministry of the Interior and implementing European standards. I invite you to attend the parliamentary hearings. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work from 10 a.m. to Thursday.
