ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the registration and the National Deputies please invite you to the session room. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:25]] Cards were registered in the 364 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our consideration of Tuesday’s schedule. It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on targeted bonds. [[Registration number 7331]] The rapporteur is the head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, Dmitry Mikhailovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Prosolov Igor Mikolajovich. The committee suggests that this issue be examined in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:01:25]] For 181 Decision taken. Please report to Dmitri Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u2	Honorary Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, is proposing a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Assigned Bonds, developed by the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, with a view to comprehensively improving the regulation of the market for targeted bonds, including the fulfilment of the obligations that are envisaged by housing units called housing bonds. It should be noted that the principal investor in the housing bond is individuals who aim to improve their living conditions. By perverting the social features of consumers of such a financial instrument, the State must ensure the greatest guarantees of its security. There is an urgent need for the adoption of the draft law to improve legislation in this area. The project is aimed at correcting shortcomings and improving the investment mechanism by means of targeted bonds, including residential bonds, as well as improving the regulation and control system for the placement, circulation and repayment of such bonds. The bill provides for amendments to Ukraine’s laws on government regulation of securities markets, on investment activities, on insurance, on securities and on the stock market, and on article 195 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. In particular, the bill provides for the introduction of a new article 8.1. to the Law on Securities and Stock Markets, which is designed to limit the number of possible issuers of living bonds and the amount to which they can place them. The need for a housing issuer to provide insurance for its financial liability for damages that may be incurred by the owners of such bonds. The bill received comments from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Correct comments can be taken into account in the drafting of the bill before.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u3	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u4	In view of the above, please support the draft law and adopt it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u5	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Igor Mikolaiovich Prasolov is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u6	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The bill before you was considered at a meeting of the Committee on 6 April. I recall, as the previous speaker said, that the law deals with the improvement of the system of control over the issue of trust bonds. A certain legal gap or legislative gap is being filled, as the issuance and circulation of targeted bonds is governed by the general rules on the treatment of bonds. But since this instrument is specific, special article 8.1 of the Securities and Markets Act is introduced to this end, which regulates the issuance and handling of targeted bonds. With regard to comments, a number of comments were made at the meeting of the Committee, which focused primarily on the contract of purchase and sale of trust bonds. It must be approved by Kabmin. Then there were a number of insurance-related issues related to the issue of targeted bonds. And there were some questions and thoughts about the norms limiting the maximum amount of emissions of these targeted bonds. But in general, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the law should be adopted as a basis and that the second reading should be finalized. Therefore, I ask you, distinguished colleagues, to support the decision of our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Your word. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u8	Dear National Deputies! Clearly, the purpose of this bill is to resolve problems with housing bonds. But if you look at this bill in terms of money-credit relations or commodity relations, we're getting more and more back to the classic form of barter relations. The Explanatory Note suggests that there are no more than 10 percent of housing bonds among the targeted bonds. Of these, nearly 90 percent are speculative. But I think if in these bonds we replace "money commitments" with "good liabilities," we're not going to avoid this speculative topic that we just talked about. Among other things, I feel that a standard for compulsory insurance is not properly prescribed. On the one hand, it is anticipated that insurance contracts must be available. On the other hand, it's as if they don't apply to insurance, to compulsory insurance, it's a little incorrect. I think it's a failure to change now for our Ukrainians and move from documentary to documentary form. We don't know how property rights are going to go for that. I think it's also a premature norm. Nor is it prescribed, and in the case of these bonds, the targeted bonds, will compensate for the damage caused by the problems involved. So it seems to me that when we have problems in the construction sector and we destroy the integrity of laws that specialize in, for example, the law or, more faithfully, the Civil Code, where they are clearly prescribed, which bonds are goods, which money, give universal character to all commodity bonds and replace.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u9	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u10	The first reading is usually supported, but there are many, many things that need to be changed in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u11	Jaroslav Suhi, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I propose that we look at this bill not only because of the prism of the financial-credit relations that my colleague Arzhevitein spoke about, but also because we always do it, because of the social and economic implications that we might have. In general, the adoption of this bill will promote or not contribute to the growth of the material well-being of our people; this is simply an issue that can be asked as a whole. So, please tell me, do we have the first signs right now after the crisis or the rise of our building industry in Ukraine? We do. Not only did builders work, but they worked in areas that contributed to the development of construction. What sad lessons do we have from building, especially housing for people who are connected to the financial credit system? We see mass fraud and not just the elite, and not only in Kiev, but also in other district centers. Will it contribute? So, the first question: Will this bill contribute to further raising the building area? Of course it will. Why? Because it will contribute to a clear distribution of the investment mechanism, with protected investments in the construction sector. The second question. Will this bill contribute to the protection of the invested funds? Will it contribute to the non-admission of further such mass deception by the builders, to whom we are then forced to react in the end, because people, including the National Deputies of Ukraine and the authorities of the state in places? Of course it will. So, dear colleagues, I propose, and on the example of this bill, I would like to urge you. When we look at a bill or a bill, of course, all the comments that my colleague Arjevetin made about it will have to be taken into account. By the way, and with regard to the changes to the Insurance Act, and by the way, to prevent new cases of violations, it can certainly be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u13	Yes, dear fellows, no one insists on speaking? No, it's not. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on targeted bonds. [[Registration number 7331]] Please vote. [[16:11:25]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider two laws that relate to each other, draft laws, I apologize for amending the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes, as well as its own draft Law on Ukraine's Honorary Name "City of Military Glory". [[Registration numbers 7078, 7079]] [[on the introduction of Ukraine's honorary title "City of Military Glory"]] [[Registration number 7079]] If the author and you didn't deny it to your colleagues, we would merge the two issues, vote separately, and immediately discuss these two issues, two bills under a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. And there'll be a four-minute report. Please vote. [[16:12:35]] For 237 Decision taken. So we're looking at Bills now, registration numbers 7078, 7079. The reporter is Peter Stepanovich Cibenko and co-reporter Sergey Gordijenko. Four minutes for the reporter and the co-rapporteur. We will vote separately on each bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u14	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, venerable veterans! This year, the peoples of the former Soviet Union, the countries of the Anti-Hitler Coalition, all progressive humanity will mark the 70th anniversary of the outbreak of the Great Homeland War and the 66th anniversary of the Fascism Victory. A major contribution to the overall victory was made by the workers of Ukraine. During the years of the war, Ukraine found itself at the very center of bloody battles. For bravery, the mass heroism of 2.5 million citizens was rewarded with Orders and Medals of the Soviet Union. The cities of Kiev, Odessa, Kerch, and Sevastopol were worthy of the title "City Hero." The cities of Korsun-Shevchenkovsky and Feodosia are rewarded by the Orders of the 1st degree Homeland War. However, with these names, the list of famous, heroic cities does not run out, much more so. Responding to numerous appeals by war veterans, the Ukrainian Veterans' Organization in Jubilee in 2010 launched a movement for the establishment in Ukraine of an honorary title of the City of Military Fame, and this patriotic work was launched into an appropriate legislative initiative. The law proposes to assign cities of Ukraine, where, or near where, during the brutal battle of the Great War, the frontist, their defenders have shown courage, stability and mass heroism, to assign the honorary title of the City of Military Glory. In this regard, it is envisaged that the law should be adopted and that article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Rewards should be incorporated into the title, the honorary title of Ukraine, the City of Military Glory. It should be noted that in accordance with paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Social, Medical, Pension Insurance for War Veterans and the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War 1941-1945, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine recommended the legislative introduction of the concept of "city of military glory". [[of October 9, 2009]] The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a number of observations on the bill, which are essential. However, they may be included in the second reading of the project. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons considered the draft bill at its meeting and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. This is also supported by representatives of the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, and at the same time the State Committee on Veterans. I would like to stress once again that the purpose of this bill is to preserve the historical memory of the significant events of the Great Homeland War, to revitalize the military and patriotic work and to raise future generations on heroic examples and traditions revealed by our people in the fight against fascism. In my opinion, this highly patriotic initiative deserves all the support and legislative settlement. Please be supportive. And the last thing I want to say is, "Dear colleagues, that's what I'm talking about." I propose to enact a framework law. Responsibilities to the President, by order of the President of Ukraine, to determine those cities that will be recognized under this law as "city of military glory". I'm asking you to back me up again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u15	Yes, thank you. I invite the Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to present the opinion, the decision of the Committee, Gordijenko Sergey Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u16	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! At its meeting on 15 December 2010, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on National Awards, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Peter Stepanovich Zybenk, which is proposed by supplementing article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on National Prizes, to establish an honorary title of the City of Military Glory for the purpose of assigning such honorary title to the cities of Ukraine, whose territories, or close to them in the course of the brutal battles of the Great National War, have shown courage, stability and mass heroism. [[on the introduction of Ukraine's honorary title "City of Military Glory"]] Peter Stepanovich reported on the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. All I have left to say is that during the discussion at the meeting of the National Deputies, members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Cibenk, when considered in the first reading, to reject. [[on the introduction of Ukraine's honorary title "City of Military Glory"]] With regard to Bill 7079, the opinion of the committee, as it had already been here, was the opinion of the scientific and expert board, during the discussion at the National Deputies meeting, members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the honorary title of Ukraine, "The City of Military Glory", submitted by the national deputy, Peter Stepanovich Cybenk, following a first reading review of the return of the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. In doing so, the committee invited the author to take into account the basic provisions of the draft Law on the title of the City of Heroes, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputies Daych and Chernomorov. [[Registration number 6016 from 29.01.2010]] Personally, I urge you to support these bills and vote. And we will introduce and honor the soldiers who, in the years of the Great Homeland War, gave their lives for the honor, freedom and independence of our Ukraine. We understand that we are only adopting a framework law. The rest will be the President of Ukraine by his decrees of submission, by his research of historians, if necessary, assigning such titles. I thank you for your attention and ask you to support these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u17	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion. Blackmore People's Deputies, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Peter Cibenko will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u18	I was proposing my own hero city bill. Because there are hero cities in Ukraine and it would be logical to continue to assign the name of the hero city. But given the differing views, the views of scientific and expert management and, above all, the need to adopt the status of military glory cities, most of which are in southern Ukraine and in particular the Crimea, the Feodosius, and the Eupatoria, I ask to vote in favour of this bill. As an opportunity today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u19	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u20	Thank you. Thank you, Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council. First of all, I want to thank a colleague who has just spoken in support of this bill. I don't object to the adoption of the city hero law either. But I understand that by adopting this law, we're putting a little bit of a nuisance in those cities that, right after the Great Homeland War, became the name of a hero city. Dear colleagues! We're with you literally two weeks before the age-old date in the life of our nation, in the life of humanity, I mean the 66th anniversary of the Great Victory over Fascism. We have to say that given the state of the economy, in terms of the financial situation of Ukraine, we, unfortunately, owe much to our respected veterans. It's that a lot of issues about the level of pension, health care, social and legal, unfortunately, are being resolved at the wrong level. What's more, the youngest veteran of the Great Homeland War is now 84. I would like all of us to take this step together in the form of adopting the relevant law and amending the Law on State Rewards, given that this bill does not require additional funding, absolutely does not need. Moreover, by adopting a framework law, we give the right to the President of Ukraine, based on objective factors, to decide on the marking, assignment by decree of the President of this honorary title, the title of the "city hero of Ukraine", in view of the events that took place during the Great Homeland War. Believe me, by adopting this law, we're going to take a big step towards the veterans, morally support them in an uncomplicated way, and make a very important contribution to raising our young, our children, our grandchildren. Because without it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u21	Vladimir Karpuk, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u22	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". I do not understand how progressive mankind will be to mark the start of a war and to pass on the word of Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u23	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u24	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Since it is said to be a framework bill, I do not fully understand this framework. The point is that the city of military glory is just the city where the battles took place during the Great Homeland War. With regard to the Great Homeland War, Ukraine has four cities: Kiev, Odessa, Sevastopol, Kerch. And all the other cities, this is already a city of military glory, because all of Ukraine was occupied, and then liberated, and every city, town and village were fighting -- that's military glory, that's all. Now why does the ideology of this bill forget that the Ukrainian army and the Ukrainian people have many cities and victories that matter as cities of military glory? And then why doesn't the Yellow Waters fall under this law, where the Hetman Hmelnicki won the Polish-Slakh army, why doesn't Konotap, where the Hetman Wegovski won the Russian occupying army, why don't the cities where the troops of the Ukrainian People's Republic fought, why don't the cities where the Ukrainian People's Army fought, where the troops of the Ukrainian People's Republic fought, from 1917 to 1921, why don't they get into the cities where the fighting happened, the Ukrainian Insurgency Army, including it fought on two fronts, as you know, with the German-Fashite invaders, why it doesn't all fall under this law? So this is another political approach, absolutely ideological. And that means we're doing political speculation again, and veterans of war and labor, which have been at war in various armies, are less and less able to buy products, because this authority is doing everything to make them less and less, prices are rising, pensions are actually falling, purchasing power is falling. And I think that the Communist faction, which is an integral part of the current power and the ruling coalition, should think about it, first of all, not about how to bring another, another, in my opinion, completely useless bill back into the communist ideology.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u25	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u26	Good afternoon, Ukraine! From time to time, you think that we are with you: Ukrainian politicians, Ukrainian people's deputies live in an international world, a totally surreal world. There are colossal problems today. Try to drive through Korsun-Shevchenkovsky today through the center, the fillings will come out of the teeth. Drive with Odessa the same one that's already in the pit again. It would seem, well, we should sit here and think as our recent campmates do, looking forward to solving specific problems. It seems that our Ukrainian head is constantly being turned back so that we can look back. Yes, there was the Great Motherlander, the Second World, that's how we were taught, war. It's happened, it's been so many years, no one's denying anything. But look, the Germans have long mentioned this war in rows of hours. Let's give it all to historians. Why are we always turned around? Now the flag is still red and they're going to start lifting. What does a city of battle glory mean? Don't scream! I am no longer afraid of you, thank God, nor was I ever afraid. Because of this, I say once again what war city means, not even military glory. What does that mean? Is that where the military were standing? You imagine you're going to be digesting Ukraine right now. I say again, instead of giving the money there, you're in power right now, a faction of losers, I've already said that this is what they call you, it's a little fish that sweeps the sides of sharks, and sharks even run it into their mouths to brush their teeth. This is how you brush your teeth today to the Ukrainian oligarchs and make absolutely idiotic decisions. [[Applause]] Do we hang red flags? The same state has existed for 20 years. And today we're just being drawn into opposition. Now there's going to be a competition that I can't give to the city. Then a city of historical glory needs to be made. But let's not get into this, let's make these cities a place for people's lives, first of all, rather than letting these smoke in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u27	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u28	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. My dear colleagues, unfortunately, the discussion has become ideological, and I have read the bill, and I would like to draw attention to the content of the bill itself. There is no doubt about the patriotic desire and desire to commemorate these cities patriotically, but note the bill itself. He makes adjustments, more specifically to the Law on State Rewards of Ukraine, by establishing an honorable title. I'm opening this law. Preamble and Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes: "The nationals of Ukraine, foreigners and stateless persons can be rewarded." Article 10 of the same law, which reads, "On Ukraine's State Prizes": "Ukrainian Honorary Names are assigned to persons who work in the economic and socio-cultural fields, usually at least 10 years old, have high jobs, professional skills.'--and so on. That is, the law itself, which makes changes and offers, provides only rewards.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u29	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u30	the rewards of only natural persons. If the subject of the legislative initiative wants to implement his initiative, the bill itself needs to be drafted differently. In this case, he simply has no right to be realized. Understand this correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u31	The statement has been completed. Does any of the factions that did not participate in the discussion insist on performing? No, it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes. [[on the introduction of Ukraine's honorary title "City of Military Glory"]] [[Registration number 7078]] [[16:31:01]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Now, one minute, dear colleagues. I'm betting on a motion for acceptance on the basis of the draft Act on the Honorary Name of Ukraine: City of Military Glory. [[Registration number 7079]] [[16:31:36]] For-31 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal that follows the committee's recommendation: to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to draft bills. [[Registration number 7078, 7079]] [[16:32:11]] For 233 Decision taken. Please, Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Well, first of all, I wanted to now, after the vote, respond to a note that sounded from a colleague. The point is, without making any changes to the Law on State Rewards, we had no right to vote on the law itself. And that's why, in all of a sudden, it caused some objections, or questions, but still, it had to be done. And secondly, I'd like to go to the part that doesn't seem to be suffering from cave nationalism, but which didn't vote for today's law for what. You listened to two representatives of cave nationalism, so by voting you became one line with them. It turns out you feel the same way without voting for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u33	Honorable National MPs. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u34	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we are perhaps the only country in the world that is ashamed of its heroic past. Today, the whole world bows down to a Soviet soldier who saved the world from the Fascist plague. Today in Israel a monument is offered to the Soviet soldier, who was breast - fed by peace on earth. That's why I think we've made the right decision, we'll convince the Cabinet of Ministers, we'll find the money, and we'll finish these laws and we'll take them, yes. It's just embarrassing for those MPs who are ashamed of their father's heroic glory who didn't vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u35	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on increasing responsibility for burning vegetation or its residues]] It is suggested that this issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[16:34:41]] For 207 Decision taken. The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Law Protection Activities of Vladimir Mikolajovic Stretović.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u36	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed in Bill No. 5170, introduced by the People's Deputies of Moses, Bodnar, Dove, Silent, Steshenko and myself, Yuri Carmazin. We suggest that we do. The need to introduce this bill is believed to be caused by the absence of real scales of influence on criminals who burn the back, onions, pastures, grassland, grassland, wetlands and other natural vegetation. Plants or its remains and burnt leaves in lanes of derailment from railways, parks, other green plants, and lawns in populated areas. Just now, you know what the consequences of the disaster were in southern Ukraine. The summer has not yet begun. Because ignoring the law’s valid standards of responsibility for burning vegetation is taking place. There are reasons for this. First. A low level of sanctions, which, according to violators, is cheaper to pay under the crime protocol, even if it is laid down, to pay a fine than to overturn the rudder, to export the processing of vegetation, its remains, and the burning of leaves. The lack of physical capacity to influence wrongdoers is real, since there is a sharp tightening of bodies whose officials can influence wrongdoers. In a village where the logs and bows are usually constantly burned, and now forests and forests are burning, there are virtually no representatives of the bodies of a specially authorized central authority in the field of ecology, of the natural resources of Ukraine. And they're the only ones who can make these protocols. As a result, officials of the EUSR, workers of the notorious rural fire department, members of voluntary firefighters, have no right to be appointed by officials of the railway transport authority on the burning of vegetation in railways, officials of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. That's why we're suggesting a lift.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u37	Microphone. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u38	Thank you, Mr. Head. We propose to raise the size of the sanctions for burning the stove and the leaves, and damage to the fertile layer of the earth, taking into account the general tendency to increase sanctions. That's the first one. The other one. Take into account the world’s experience and empower officials who deal with these administrative violations of the maximum number of persons responsible for these matters, railways, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, EUFOR, firefighters, and the specific features of their intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, it's God's business to stop the vacchanal that's going on. We can do this, it's absolutely no politics, it's just not going to be the cases that were in the Russian Federation right now, and they're happening all the time. Please accept it in the first reading. All comments can be taken into account, which were and are before this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u39	Thank you, too. Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stratovic from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u40	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, are present! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement at its meeting considered the draft Law on Administrative Violations submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Karmazin and Moses, Bodnar and others. [[on increasing responsibility for burning vegetation or its residues]] [[Registration number 5170]] The bill is designed to give real weight to wrongdoers who burn rudders, onions and pastures, grasslands, wetlands and other natural vegetation, vegetation or its remains, and fire leaves in strips of sheltered logging, highways and railways, in parks, other green plants and lawns in populated areas. The bill provides for administrative responsibility for burning barns, meadows, pastures, steppe areas, wetlands and other natural vegetation within one hectare. With regard to the responsibility for burning areas with tap, wetlands and other vegetation and its remains in one hectare or more of land, this is provided for by the draft Act amending the Criminal Code, which we have already adopted here by the Supreme Council in the first reading, and is prepared by a committee to read the second. [[on increasing responsibility for burning plant or its residues]] The issue of adopting this bill will contribute to the rational use and protection of land resources, the creation of a more effective mechanism for halting violations of the legislative requirements and eliminating their negative consequences. After reviewing the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations, members of the Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on the first reading as a basis. And now I'm going to add it to myself. I'm going to tell you, as a grasshopper with an internship, that after this kind of burning, the med school falls sharply into our pastures, because all the vegetation of the top layer, the gumus, just-just burns out and there it doesn't start and the flowers don't bloom anymore. So I ask you, in order to somehow influence the offenders, to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to discuss this matter? Please sign in. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u42	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". This is really important because, despite the existence of the law, if you go through the autumn or early springs in Ukraine, from Kiev to the western border, forests, shrubs, and so forth. In the spring of this year, several housewives were burned down in Volina and there were fires and in populated areas as a result of uncontrollable fires that were made with intentional people who wanted to burn the grass. Therefore, the expansion of the circle of people who control the burning of herbs, the increase in sanctions, and generally the responsibility of people for what is being done, must be increased. Because the effect of these fires is not just there on the copper congregation or on the honey congregation. It's also air pollution, soil pollution, the destruction of a living layer of bacteria and so on and so forth, and so on, and so on, it's really a problem that's already solved in Europe today. In our neighbouring Poland, we remember when in the early 1990s, when you were going, there were always fires everywhere, and now you won't see it, they've already solved the question. Because there is responsibility, first of all, for the authorities and for those who occupy these positions. And I really, really have a proposal here, and they tell me that not only do they need to strengthen their responsibility, but they need to think about the responsibility of those authorities that should govern them, and the authorities of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u43	Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u44	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! "Lysorub Wasia, reflecting on mosquitoes, "cut off two hectares of forest with an ax." - that's how we act very often. Indeed, these plays over Ukraine and in the spring and in the fall, they've become even fashionable, you know, like a certain challenge: look, and we can do that. I just want to remind ourselves that if we don't stop it, Ukraine can be transformed into a dead desert. Because not only does it burn from the sunflower or the wheat or the wheat or the corn, such as there and so forth, but it burns all the living things that are in the earth. Earth, it's a completely separate powerful organism that's long dead after that. There's not gonna be a worm, there's not gonna be any spider, there's not gonna be anything, because of that, of course, there's going to be a lot of savings. I understand very well that it's very convenient to spend 1 match and knock it over a pack, burn it all around the village. And very often, it's not just a field that burns down the whole woodscars that look like after the nuclear war, they're completely naked and they're standing there. Because of this, of course, and immediately, the civilized nations forbade it all, let them plow, overwhelm it, and so forth. Because of this, I think that the second reading should make this bill even more difficult, because I think if we find those who want to do so foolishly, by setting fire to half the fields outside the village, we can save our lives. If we train them to behave civilizedly, I think we should even raise the punishments that are here. "Julia Tymoshenko's Block" will vote and support this bill. He's smart and timely.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u45	Yes, thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, please, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I took the floor to thank Karmazin Yuri Anatolievich for the initiative. Because what he raised was the real position of a citizen. Because when a barn burns, it's not just barbaricism in the 21st century, it's gibberish. Because in those countries that we call advanced or advanced, all of this is used. It makes briquettes, it gives them extra energy. And that's what goes into the sky. And so the important point and the fact that you, Yuri Anatoliyevich, have offered to step up the sanctions. But what's important is that in your presentation of article 223, you define the mechanism itself, yes, and the individuals -- the people who have to monitor it. Thank you for that from our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u48	Yes, the honourable people's deputies, the discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on increasing responsibility for burning vegetation or its residues]] [[Registration number 5170]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u49	Please be supportive. [[16:46:12]] For-152. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u50	The factions, please. Regional Party – 10, BUT – Fatherland – 44, Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense – 28, Communist faction – 25, Reforms for the Future – 20, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 5. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, if we're not there, I'll put the vote back on the question. [[Registration number 5170]] Please vote. [[16:47:00]] For-157. The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on re-reading. Or let's get the subject back to the right of the legislative initiative. Please vote for this proposal. [[16:47:29]] For 155 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles for the Social Protection of Labour Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens is under review. [[concerning the status of the Labour Veterinary]] [[Registration number 7087]] The proposal was to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:48:12]] For-198 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Valentin Grigorovich Matviev. The Coroner is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Mestipan Uljana Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my legislative proposal with Peter Stepanovich Cibenk is aimed at clearly defining the conditions for granting the status of the Labor Veteran to persons who have been assigned a pension in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons, and they have continued to work in enterprises, institutions, organizations after their release from military service and are not now veterans of military service. A number of problems arose after the appointment and payment of pensions from the ministries were transferred to the pension authorities. One of the problems in particular is the calculation of the overall work experience to establish the status of "Work Veteran" for former military personnel. For formal reasons, the Ministry of Social Policy and its territorial authorities refuse to provide military pensioners with a tax status, citing that, by law, only citizens who have worked in various sectors of the national economy and have a proper internship rather than worked and served in the Armed Forces. The situation is quite, yes, dear colleagues, it is absurd that, in accordance with article 56 of the Pension Insurance Act, military service is included in the work experience, regardless of the place of service. The project is designed to prevent subjective, double reading of the law. To implement the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u52	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u53	In order to implement this bill, if it is adopted, it does not require additional expenditure from the State budget, nor does it need to review other laws that are now in force. Please, Your Honor, support the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u54	Thank you, too. Uljana Mikolayovna Mistpane, head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u55	The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons amended article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles for the Social Protection of Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Matthew and Cybenk on 3 November 2010. [[concerning the status of the Labour Veterinary]] As has already been said, the bill provides for the resolution of the issue of the order and conditions of granting the status of veterans to persons to whom pensions have been granted, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. This right will be exercised by members of the military, who have been assigned retirement pensions for years. Including men 60 years of age, women 55 years of age. And who have a job: men, not less than 40 years old, women, 35. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Ukrainian apparatus has a general conclusion that the results of the first reading of the bill should be sent for further work. The National Security and Defence Committee also holds the same offer. The stated conclusion is based on the fact that article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles for the Social Protection of Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine does not limit the rights of citizens, including military pensioners, to the establishment of a veteran of work, depending on the type of pension and the law to which it is assigned. For this reason, it should be noted that the part of the first article 6 of the Act refers to persons who have retired at the age of 60 and 55. In view of the above, the committee found that the legislative proposal made by the national deputies of Ukraine, Matthew and Cibenka, was clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u56	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u57	A veteran of work whose pension is granted exclusively and will be in accordance with the pension law. Therefore, our committee proposes to the Supreme Council to amend the law, to article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of Social Protection for Labour Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine, as a foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please show the names of the national MPs who signed up for the talk. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u59	Thank you. The Ukrainian Company faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, of course, as one of the co-authors of this bill, I am asking my colleagues to support this bill, which means to take the first step towards solving a number of issues that are currently in the military pensioners. Dear colleagues, remember, today there are a number of issues among this part of the veterans that need to be settled. This is the first of the issues that we propose to settle, but there are others. In the long run, there is not even a difference today, but the pension gap of the military pensioners, depending on the year of retirement, is much lower than those who receive it later. This is a problem that needs to be resolved because, of course, it's not a matter of law, it's a matter of law that we've divided it into white and black. I want to talk about another problem that exists for people in pursuit. I mean the fact that people who are liberated from the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, are released at a fairly young age, and often they work a large part of the time at businesses, institutions, organizations, as it were, in civilian mode. Regrettably, today, the work that they do for businesses, the organizations from which the salaries are paid to the Pension Fund, it is not counted in the calculation of the pension, and that is wrong. So there's a whole bunch of, once again, these issues that need to be settled. And today's question is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u60	Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u61	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Obviously, we really need to adopt this bill, including because, apart from the negative and the reforms that are under way today, where military personnel, security officials, border guards, that is, all the power structures are trying to send something to retirement at the age of 55. And I remind you, even in King's Landing, there were 25 recruits serving and no more. And people who, by the way, after the end of military service or service in other power structures have this opportunity to continue to work, they certainly have to be compared to the status of veterans of work. And that's absolutely the right law. And that's why I'm offering to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u62	Oleg Zarubinski. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u63	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I have taken the floor to say that in the Supreme Council today there is registered a system-wide complex law. It's called "The Prevention of Discrimination against Older and Older Persons in Ukraine." In this law attention is paid not only to the former forces, but to all those who fall within the category of older and older people and who, economically, socially and even in the household, are often objects of discrimination on the part of the State, on the part of employers, on the part of even, sorry, relatives. So I think it's worth paying attention to a system-wide comprehensive bill that could become a law that solves all of the issues, despite the fact that it does not divide by age, but rather by professional categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u64	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u65	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I think in this case we have to stop discrimination right now. Who are discriminated against? These are those who served in the military, in the internal affairs, in the head and in the line of government special services, in the protection of information, in the protection of fire, in the civil protection units, and in other citizens. They are, indeed, discriminated against because they interpret the law not as it is written. The law does not limit the right of citizens, including military pensioners, to establish the status of the Labour Veteran, but it does not exist in the ASPDD/COMTEH information base, there is no time for them to stay at work. This time can be set by workbooks – and everything, as it was set. We don't have to spend anything on it. Because of this, the law is extremely precise: persons who are assigned pensions under the "On Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons" Act for the availability of work experience. So it can be accepted both in the first and in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles for the Social Protection of Labour Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine. [[concerning the status of the "Working Veteran"]] [[Registration number 7087]] Please vote. [[17:00:27]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 1, "BUT – Fatherland" – 41, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 6, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 14, People's Party – 0, "Afterfaction" – 3. I am voting on the proposal contained in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate: to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative to draft a bill. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[17:01:13]] For 111 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u67	We are considering: the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Tax Laws and Other Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Regulation of Individual Transactions. Bill number 6482. The head of the committee is Homutinnik. Karakai, please. Can't we do it in a reduced procedure? I'm making a proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:02:03]] For 211 Offer supported. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u68	The honourable chairman, honourable national MPs, the bill was prepared by a group of Ukrainian national deputies with a view to comprehensively improving the tax laws and other laws of Ukraine that regulate financial leasing and the related market. This is an extremely topical issue for the development of the Ukrainian economy, but the issue is that with the adoption of the Tax Code a number of problems related to lysis have been solved. Unfortunately, our committee, when working on the Tax Code, could not take into account all the issues proposed by the bill in accordance with the Rules. The committee considered the bill at its meeting. We had a very sharp discussion, because before this bill, there were a number of comments from the government and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and the decision of the committee by a majority of votes was adopted: to send it to a committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u69	Yes, have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? You don't? There's one, Matthew. Don't they insist anymore? Please, Matthew's microphone, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u70	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Adam Ivanovich, I want to talk to you, I want an explanation that I don't understand. All the bills have a corresponding author. The author will report on his bill. Then we can listen to the position of the profile committee. I don't understand why this bill is being considered without the author's desire and ability to report it. If there's any explanation, please. Otherwise, it is not clear why we are violating the rules of our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u71	Fortunately, in order to answer nicely, there is not one author. There are a lot of authors here, including. Including the author of Homutinnick, who commissioned it. No, it's not. He answers both from the committee and as the author. I mean, he can. We have quite the practice that the author can report both as the author and express the opinion of a committee of profile if he works on that committee. I can't see anything here. Yes, dear colleagues, there is an offer. Here are various suggestions. But I will be the first to propose adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill 6482, which amends some of Ukraine's tax laws and other Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of individual transactions. Please vote. [[17:05:33]] For the 18th. Not supported. The proposal of both the committee and the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is to be sent for further work. Please vote. [[17:06:00]] For-31 Not supported. The bill was rejected. We are considering the issue of the number, the registration number of project 6498, the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on Child Health and Recreation. [[on children with disabilities]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Does not deny the author. Please vote. [[17:06:43]] For-198 The initiative is supported. Uljana Mikolayevna Mistpane reports as the author. Get ready from the Suslov Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u72	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! The bill is prepared for work in the constituency and at the request of parents of children with disabilities. The purpose of the bill is to restore fair treatment for children with disabilities. I should remind you that accompanying persons had the opportunity to spend time with their children in health care facilities at the expense of the state budget. However, with the adoption of amendments to the Law on Child Health and Recreation in May 2009, children with disabilities have virtually lost the opportunity to do so. The changes have led to the need for those accompanying them to pay for their stay in health centers and camps on their own. The cost of traveling 4 - 5 thousand and paying for well - known reasons cannot be borne by a disabled family. On the other hand, children with disabilities cannot recover or rest because no health care facility is suited to the needs of these children. That is, they are deprived of the ability to heal and rest, which is a violation of their rights. When a State is unable to provide health care and recreation for children with disabilities, it is obliged to pay for the presence of accompanying persons who help children with disabilities to enjoy full rest in health facilities because they do not rest there but work there. Therefore, the bill proposes to remove from article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Recovery and Rest of Children" the rule that living with children with disabilities of accompanying persons is done at their expense. That is, after the validity of the law, accompanying persons will be in health facilities at the expense of the State. Ask the National Deputies to support the bill for the 2011 health season.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u73	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u74	for children with disabilities, it was not lost, as it was last year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u75	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Eugene Suslov, a member of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u76	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, held on 6 October 2010, reviewed the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on Child Health and Recreation. [[on the recovery of children who need special conditions for recovery]] [[Registration number 6498]] The legislative proposal is aimed at restoring the right of one parent, guardian or social worker to accompany a disabled child during recovery. In fact, the bill returns article 13 of the Law, which was in force until May 2009. The main scientific and expert office concluded that the first reading of the bill could be adopted as a basis. The Budget Committee notes that an increase of 450 million dollars a year is needed from the State budget of Ukraine. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons unanimously supported the bill. The members of the profile committee also supported the bill because a large number of children with disabilities cannot be cured without accompanying persons. Most disabled families are underprivileged, so these families cannot pay for the cost of being in health care facilities and the rest of the accompanying persons. This deprives almost all children with disabilities of the possibility of recovery. When preparing the bill for second reading, an effective scheme of truly proposed rules will be found to address these costs. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Act on the Recovery and Recreation of Children, which
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u77	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u78	Thank you. . special conditions for recovery. In the first reading, and as a basis. I ask my colleagues to make it possible for children with disabilities to be cured. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u79	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Yes, Carpuk, Chernobyl. Do others insist? Then please. Yes. Sign up, please. Yes, please, Karpuk, the next one, as they said.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u80	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We support this legislative initiative to return to the 2009 edition and give parents, people, or representatives of the social sphere who are resting with children with disabilities the opportunity to assist them in their treatment. This is a very important problem for Ukraine, and I don't understand why the representatives of that party, which recently, their member of the faction and their member of the party have set up a new world achievement by purchasing 136 million pounds worth of apartments in London, is 1.5 million dollars, 1.5 billion dollars. It's practically the cost that we're talking about today, which we vote for veterans, for children, and this faction doesn't support cynically. At the same time, I don't agree, I don't know where the calculations from the budget committee that say in the explanatory note that it takes 450 million dollars. If we were to calculate the average cost of travel to 5,000 dollars, it would add up to 90,000 children with disabilities. Clearly, that's the number of children with disabilities we've never healed. God forbid it's like that. And these are just numbers to explain to those who don't understand why they didn't vote. I think we need to support this bill and we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u81	Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! The MP's Reform Group for the Future has considered the bill at a faction meeting and has determined that we will support it. Our position is to the next. It's number one. The children we're talking about are really people, children we have a special debt to. They are generally socially vulnerable, limited in their ability. Of course, we must provide them with the possibility of recreation, which is possible only with parents or caregivers. Otherwise, we just make these young people unequal compared to others, and we block the rest of our lives. The second moment that's important to us is that this bill doesn't create an absolute novel. This form has been in operation until recently. It is not clear what came out of the people who canceled it in 2009, but today we can simply restore justice. Paragraph three. Talking about populism or spending too much money, I think it's totally inappropriate and morally unacceptable, and financially. As the previous speaker said, there is no telling where this figure came from — 450 million dollars. With your finger in the sky, so you can make a scarecrow and scare. In fact, the point may be that recovery will take place within the limits of the funds allocated. They can be reviewed by other laws, the budget law. This bill does not mean that other funds will be allocated under it. We are simply among those children who are resting at the expense of the state, including real children who cannot rest on their own without the involvement of their parents. Therefore, this law is moral in nature, our moral obligation, and it is absolutely real in order to fulfill it, which confirms the practice of its previous application in recent years. So our group is asking for the support of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u83	Yeah, from factions that didn't sign up, but they want to take it. Yes, please, Samuel. Wait a minute. Next, Stoyan, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u84	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. What I'm trying to say is that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine supports this bill, like all the bills that apply to social orientation. These include constitutional guarantees for the provision and development of children, especially children in vulnerable categories. In fact, we have quite a lot of kids like that. This is more than, perhaps, more than a hundred thousand of these children. And they can't participate in sports. They cannot participate in all kinds of festivals equally, as this is an opportunity for healthy children. And that's why we understand that we're doing our civic and parliamentary duty, the responsibility of politicians to support and protect children with disabilities. And support your parents. We support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u85	Please, Stoyan. Prepare the Master from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u86	Dear colleagues! Of course, these children are a special category, and they're still devoid of life. That is why they need rest. But they will not be able to rest without their parents. And we have to look for options. I know it's a big account, a lot of money. But I would like to draw attention to one detail. We have the Social Insurance Fund after the loss of temporary employment. This fund provides a number of payments. Those in the hospital are cared for by their child and by their treatment. Now, I'd like to go to the fund's management now, and there's billions of funds. For this fund, the foundation, and it's formed on three bases: government, employers, trade unions, to find the opportunity, and a certain percentage would contribute to the treatment and recovery of these children. Why? Because the parents of these children, they're practically members of the union, they're working. So I would ask our colleagues to support this bill. And from the Social Insurance Fund, find the funds to support the children to go with their parents to the hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u87	So it's from the BUT MASTIPAN faction. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u88	Deputies! I'd like to go back to you on this point, and once again, a few figures like this, saying that last year, according to all the statistics that could have been kicked out, because of the four ministries that did this, it's very difficult to find the right answers. We had 50 percent of the children with disabilities, which means that only children with disabilities who could get to these homes were resting. But those children who need just the rest that someone should take care of are very few. So I think 450 million is intimidation. There is also such a suggestion that since the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to develop the exact order of care for these escorts, it is possible for the Cabinet of Ministers, with the assistance of the Ministry of Health, to write this category down before the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u89	Question completed. The point is that we need to adopt a bill to amend article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Recreation of Children. [[Registration number 6498]] This is about children with disabilities. Please vote. [[17:20:21]] For a hundred and Unfortunately, it's not supported. The factions. Regional Party 5, BUT 48, "Our Ukraine 9, Communists 25, reforms 17, the People's Party has no votes, non-fractional - 3. We're considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tourism Act. [[on information provision for the tourism industry]] [[Registration number 6536]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:21:09]] For 208 The author of the Evgeny Soslov bill and the committee will also report. So you have four minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u90	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, at its meeting on 22 September 2010, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Tourism Act. [[on information provision for the tourism industry]] [[of 16/06.2010]] [[Registration number 6536]] As the author will point out, the main reason for drafting the bill is the weak state information policy in the tourism sector of Ukraine, more specifically the absence of it entirely, with the situational exceptions, is the Euro-2012 Championship. The bill adds to the current Ukrainian Act on Tourism, which provides for the introduction of new terms into the law, such as "tourism industry", "tourism information", "state information policy for the tourism industry" and "State regulation of information security for the tourism industry", complementing the functions of the State with powers in terms of tourism regulation, the task of information security for the domestic tourism industry and the formation of the image of Ukraine as an attractive tourist state, complementing the law with new article 6.1 "Directives of State support for the information provision of the tourism industry" on the formation of the network of tourist information centres, the promotion of the national tourism product in the world of the development of the tourism industry. As a result of the adoption of the bill, Ukraine's image is projected to be promoted as a tourist-attractive country, an increase in state spending on a new function, an informational provision for the tourism industry. The main scientific and expert office believes that a draft of the first reading may be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine review the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to Ukraine's "About Tourism" Act in the first reading and adopt it as a basis. [[on information provision for the tourism industry]] I would also like to share some of my emotions about tourism, because it must have been one of my colleagues. Before the tourism exhibition we had in Ukraine. Frankly, I was quite ashamed of myself as a Ukrainian citizen, because Ukraine was represented, you might say, not at all was represented, because all tourism in Ukraine is now turned around to leave Ukraine: both our citizens and there is no complete information about tourism coming to Ukraine. I want to point out that in normal countries, where tourism is developed, tourism gives the state at least 7 percent of the domestic national product. Ukraine, a country with tourism, has a place to invite tourists and has to make direct profits from it. So I would like to point out this problem and ask you to support this bill because it exists and is relevant. And I think in this case, Ukraine will win first of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u91	Thank you. Shall we vote? I'm voting on a proposal to support a bill amending the Ukrainian Tourism Act. [[Registration number 6536]] [[on information provision for the tourism industry]] [[17:25:35]] For 287 The Law was adopted in the first reading. We are discussing: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act and certain Ukrainian laws relating to the characteristics of transport activities. [[Registration number 6700]] There's an offer -- it's short. Please vote. [[17:26:11]] For 197 Supported. Please, Volinec Mikhailo Yakovic is the author of the legislative initiative. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u92	Dear Adam Ivanovich, National MPs, TVs, radio listeners, this bill is designed to regulate the relationship between car carriers, state and executive authorities, local self-government and passengers: to improve the efficiency of the internal taxi market, to regulate and develop taxi services on a professional basis, to improve the service of the population by light taxis and cars to order, to organize and legalize taxi parking, to coordinate taxi operators, to monitor the performance of taxis, to create safe working conditions for taxi drivers and to service passengers, to stop the provision of illegal taxi services. It is also envisaged to set up a coordination board at the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as to create public colleges with local government, district and district administrations, as well as the introduction of public control over cabomotor activities, including through public inspectors authorized by public colleges. At the same time, according to the local project. local executives will be able to control the activities of the information and control services, which will conduct appropriate registrations and influence the market for taxi service through public colleges. Following a review of the regulations governing the car transport market, appropriate changes have been made to the establishment of the responsibility for infringements of road transport legislation, both in the areas of transport law violations and in the management of their activities in the car transport market. And it is also envisaged that certain measures of responsibility should be applied to officials and individuals. The adoption of the draft law will allow for the improvement of road transport legislation, involving the public and local authorities in the reform of the car market.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u93	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u94	and improve the provision of passenger and freight services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u95	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Ivanovich Mironenko, deputy head of the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u96	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications discussed at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Road Transport and certain laws of Ukraine concerning the characteristics of the transport sector, submitted by National Deputy Volinz. [[Registration number 6700]] The aim of the bill is, according to the authors, to improve legislation in the field of road transport; to involve the public and executive authorities in the reform and development of taxi services on a professional basis; to provide quality services to taxi operators and information and control services; to improve public services; and to introduce international experience in the automotive market. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine’s laws on road transport, on the application of registries, on accounting transactions in the field of trade, public nutrition and services and on the Code of Administrative Offences. The Cabinet of Ministers, in its conclusion of 20.07.2010, comments on the bill on eight pages. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion of 13.09.2010, comments on the bill and determines that the bill needs to be finalized. As a result of the review and taking into account the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee considers it appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of a bill amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act and certain Ukrainian laws relating to the activities of the transport sector to send the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. [[Registration number 6700]] The solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u97	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u98	Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u99	Yeah, we'll talk about it? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the 6700 bill, amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act and certain Ukrainian laws relating to the characteristics of transport activities. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:31:41]] For the 17th. And the offer of a profile committee, as well as the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, to direct the subject's initiative for further development. I'll bet you that. [[17:32:08]] Z-11. The bill was rejected. We are considering the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "To the 65th anniversary of the Nuremberg Tribunal of Fascist Criminals". [[Registration number 7405]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:32:44]] For 196 Supported. Please, I can't see the author. From the profile committee, the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Taran Viktor Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, at their meeting on 2 March this year, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations discussed the draft Decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "To the 65th anniversary of the Nuremberg Process on Fascist Criminals", submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Simonenko and Alexey. And above all, the committee is focusing on the extremely low professional level of the draft decision. Thus, in the discussion, members of the committee stressed that the draft statement contained a rather unreasonable reference to the UN General Assembly resolutions, the inadmissibility of certain practices that contribute to the ignition of contemporary forms of racism. The resolution, however, is a UN document that has been approved under the agenda of the UN General Assembly for the elimination of racism and has nothing to do with the Nuremberg Tribunal. At present, there is only one reference to the decision of the Nuremberg Tribunal. But attention: This link is not being edited by delegations from more than 50 countries around the world. "For" was then voted by only five states: Serbia, Russia, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Belarus Ukraine then abstained from voting. We went to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said by letter that when virtually all European countries, regardless of their affiliation or non-compliance with the EU, do not support the resolution, it is useless to use it as a message from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, the draft statement calls on the parliaments of the world to support the adoption of the resolution. But this resolution was already voted by the UN General Assembly on December 21, 2010. That is, we cannot support what has already been voted on. And if it were accepted, the Supreme Council would have shown itself to be uninformed, and Ukraine would have looked like a country that didn't know what it was voting for. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also approved recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the draft Decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u101	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u102	Literally half a word. Thank you. That is, as a result of the committee's consideration, he approved recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling as non-professional, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputies Simonenko and Alexeyev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u103	Yes, thank you. Who wants to share in the discussion? Yes, Cranville and Popescu. Please, Mr. Cranowil Taras. After him, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u104	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The first thing I'd like to do is mark it. Indeed, an expert presentation by a committee that outlined the real meaning of the bill. The thing is, in the old days in the Literature Gazette on the last page, there was this funny feature of "Women's novels, which are named after each other." Something like this: The name is beautiful, it's easy to buy. The Nürburgh process, the memory of it, the emphasis on it -- it all seems to be the right thing to do. In the same determination, the statement itself mentions the Nuremberg process, so to speak, slightly superficially. Next, it went off, and setting a certain resistance in Ukraine on fire, inside, and principally for me, a direct lobbyist execution of the order of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation. Once upon a time, in the past, the president was commissioned to maximize the approval of one of the conventions. How many countries have supported it, except for most of those countries that have actually been involved in World War II and have experienced all the calamities and calamities of fascism. In these circumstances, in fact, the project should have been rejected, a position that was really, as already said, supported by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In this regard, detailed information was provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where it was shown that the legislation actually narrows down the possibilities of "maneuvering" for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And they're putting Ukraine in a very awkward situation where the name actually changes to a speculative point. Similarly, the MPs' group "Forthcoming Reforms" looked at the project, and separated from the name, said that the name we liked, but for the very essence of the proposal, we can't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u105	The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u106	Thank you, Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, voters! Since the proposed statement condemns the manifestations and efforts of the historic review of the conclusions of the Nuremberg Tribunal, the distortion of its historic role, the Party of Regions is implementing its programme on the eve of Victory Day, supports such an application and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u107	Eugene Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u108	Well, you know, thanks to the Parliamentary colleagues from the Party of the Regions. We have heard the latest statements from the session of Ivano-Frankovska and Lviv. And today, some people who like the title, but don't like the essence, even though they're silent about their group, the name would be kind of beautiful, and in fact, it's empty, all these statements, that's when they listen to you, that you probably didn't want much, and your ancestors, that the Soviet authorities and the Red Army would free Ukraine from the fascists. So you'd be happy to live with them. Both the essence of the law and the essence of the decree and the fact that historical truth is protected here. That is why Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko has submitted the right document, and I am sure that, unlike those who should work today in parliament, he will work in the Kirovograd mines for the actions of his grandfathers and what they say here is a bill and this legislative initiative will be supported in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u109	Yes, the discussion is over. I'm voting on the adoption of the statement, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling on the 65th anniversary of the Nuremberg Tribunal of the Fascist Criminals. [[Registration number 7405]] Please vote. [[17:39:54]] For 221 [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, who's for coming back, please make up your mind. [[17:40:20]] For 226 We're back. I'm voting on a motion for a decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the 65th anniversary of the Nuremberg Tribunal of the Fascist Criminals. [[Registration number 7405]] Please vote. [[17:40:52]] For 233 It's been decided. We're considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Notaryate Act, can we do it in a nutshell? [[Registration numbers 1286, 1286-1, 1286-2]] I'm putting this motion to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:41:29]] For 202 Supported. Yes, according to the first draft of Pisarenko. He doesn't want to. Second, please, Coastal Irina Grigorovna, 1286-1. Coastal, Carmazin, Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u110	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is looking at new drafts of the Act on Notariat 1286, 1286-1 and 1286-2. The drafts of the new Ukraine Act on Notariat are proposed to waive the division into a public and private notary with the aim of creating the only legal conditions for notarial activity in Ukraine, to consolidate the status of the notary as a public official. There's also a lot else. Bill 1286-1, of which I am the author, received a positive assessment from representatives of the public, experts, scientists and notaries. Because at the moment, there is an understanding of the need for notary reform. The validity of the adoption of the new law is due to the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is not included in the current edition of the Law on Notariat and the need to resolve the wide range of theoretical and practical problems of the organization, the functioning of notariat in Ukraine on the basis of the gains of international experience and taking into account changes in national legislation. By creating legal organisational conditions for Ukraine's entry into the International Union of Notaries. Also pressing issues that need to be addressed are the completion of the process of notary reform in Ukraine within the limits of continental law and the introduction of a single notary according to the new legal, economic, social and political conditions. One step on the road to reforming the country’s notary system was the Order of the Ministry of Justice to Ukraine of December 24, 21010, on the adoption of the concept of notary reform in Ukraine. One of the main steps in the implementation of the Notaryate Reform Mechanism is the consideration and adoption of a new edition of the Ukrainian Notaryate Act. Regrettably, in the drafting of the Bills on Notariat 1286, 1286-1, and 1286-2, it was found that the documents contained conceptual differences. For the time being, I would like to ask the co-authors of the bill, who are actually concerned about notary issues, to work together on these documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u111	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u112	and unite them into a single bill that will allow notaries to work under normal conditions and provide services to the population with quality and efficiency. In view of the above, I would like to ask you to support the committee's decision and to send these bills for further elaboration with a view to introducing a single, harmonized law to Parliament that will gain support in the Hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u113	Thank you. That's a good idea. 1286-2. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich, please, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u114	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'm probably going to report as an author and as a representative of a profile committee, so I'm going to put two together in my speech so I don't take up too much time. In fact, Irina has already said about the course of the discussions that took place on our committee. Indeed, the law is vital. Several authors expressed their point by introducing their legislative initiatives as a bill to Parliament, the committee considered them all and concluded that we should merge them into a single text, so that we can adopt a system law that will bring Ukraine's notary to a new, quality level. First of all, the purpose of this bill and the law passed in the future is to protect the rights of citizens associated with the activity of notaries. With a view to preparing the draft drafts for consideration by the Supreme Council, the Committee held committee hearings on 8 April 2008 and 15 April 2009 on the basis of the draft bills. Given that the bills submitted, namely 1286, 1286-1, 1286-2, contain conceptual differences, the committee decided to form a working group on the drafting of a single notary bill. Regrettably, the task force was unable to get the legislators to comply with their laws and introduce a single text. The committee therefore suggests that the legislative initiative should be returned to their projects, and we expect a single text.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u115	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u116	We expect the only text we can adopt as a law. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u117	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? None. Then perhaps, indeed, honourable colleagues, since both one author of the Coast and Miroshnichenko, as the author of the committee, propose that we send all these bills to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work, and they commit themselves to submitting the only harmonized bill. Did I get it right? Then I put this motion to the vote: to send Bills 1286, 1286-1, 1286-2 to the subject of the legislative initiative. Please vote. [[17:48:08]] For 256 Thank you. A decision has been made. We're looking at the draft of Ukraine's Notary Procedural Code. [[Registration number 3197]] Coastal Irina Grigorovna asks to be considered under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:48:41]] For 202 Supported. Please, Irina Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u118	Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is also considering a draft of the Notaryal Procedural Code of Ukraine, which is designed to provide legal protection for the Institute of Warning Justice and develop notary activities under European Notary standards. [[No. 3197]] The notary code of procedure should become the main regulator of the order of notarial action. The draft of the document is called upon to replace a particular part of the law in force, as well as to provide order in the system of regulations that notaries now use in their activities. This approach fully meets the requirements of article 92, paragraph 14, of the Constitution of Ukraine, which establishes that the organization and activity of a notary is defined solely by laws, not by legal regulations, as is the case with the Ministry. In addition, the most important issues of notary function and notarial activity, such as the task and order of notarial activity, notarial activity, are still unresolved and found in the bill. The adoption of the draft Noterial Procedural Code is necessary in the context of the reform of the country's notariat system, provided for by the Order of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to approve the concept of notary reform in Ukraine. At the same time, given that this bill contains discrepancies with the drafts of the Ukrainian Notariat Act, which we have just sent for further work, so in considering further prospects for reforming the Notariat in Ukraine and for the purpose of harmonising the standards of the bill, it is also appropriate to return this bill in order to produce a unified, reformed concept and to support it by a majority in the Supreme Council. So I support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u119	From the committee is Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u120	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, I want to thank Irina Brezhna for her very responsible and conscientious attitude toward my duties as a national deputy. Even though she is the author of the bill, she understands the depth of the issue and the need for the adoption of a single Notariat Act, where we would foresee a specific part, where the procedural norms provided for in her draft Notarial Procedures Act would be taken into account. Actually, I have nothing to add. Indeed, the committee’s decision is to return the subject of the legislative initiative to the drafting of the bill. I'm asking you to support whatever faction we're in, that's the decision. And so the reform of the notary will be carried out in a constructive, coordinated cooperation of all the national MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u121	The position is clear, isn't it? I'm voting on the proposal and the author, and the profile committee on the return of the subject to the right of legislative initiative to draft the Notary Procedural Code of Ukraine. [[Law registration number 3197]] Please vote. [[17:52:35.]] For 244 It's going to work. We're talking about the bill of attorney. [[Registration number 1430, 3549, 4353 and 4353-1]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Consider this question and finish our work. I'm asking for a reduced procedure to vote. [[17:53:18]] For 222 Offer supported. 1430. The author is Miroshnichenko, please report. Get ready, but I don't see anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u122	Adam Ivanovich, I don't see any other authors here, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u123	I'm sorry, but Oliynik Svetoslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u124	He's not in the hall either.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u125	Then, please, you're from the author and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u126	I and the authors from all, because we've been in the material for many years, you know, there's a new Law on Lawyers that would be called upon to bring the rights, constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens to a new quality level, protect lawyers in the process, give them guarantees, create a single lawyer as an independent self-governance institution. And these efforts by the deputies should be welcomed. At the same time, we faced the same problem as the Notaryate Act. We have many texts, many useful in these texts, but there is a need to unite them into a single text of a bill that we can adopt. Therefore, the committee’s own decision was to return all the legislators to the legislative initiative for the drafting of these bills and the agreed text to vote that the lawyer should already work for a new, quality law. Thank you for your attention! So please support the committee's decision. I'm saving time, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m1.u127	I wasn't waiting for her! Again, more authors, more authors don't have a bill, right? We listened from the committee. Who wants to share in the discussion? Neither does it. Then I put to the vote a rather original and interesting proposal that Bills 1430, 3549, 4553 and 4553-1 direct the subject of the legislative initiative for further work and wish to have them submit a bill. Please vote. [[5:56:03]] For 272 Copy that. And, dear fellows, "I've given it a bit," but I won't take it back. Therefore, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Those bills that we haven't had today, there are three bills, we'll try them tomorrow after considering the opposition bill. I think we're gonna make it.
