ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:12]] Cards were registered in the 370 people’s deputies’ session hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear colleagues! Today, the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Maltsev Vladimir Alexanderovich and Polančich Mikhail Mikhailovich, please welcome our colleagues and wish them good health and good success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on April 19, 2011. Fifty-five issues of order have been discussed, six laws and four decrees have been adopted, seven bills adopted on a basis, and one bill has been sent to the Committee to prepare for the re-reading. Ten bills have been converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, one has been returned to the committee for further consideration, and nine bills and two draft regulations have been rejected. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements by national deputies with applications, reports, queries, information, and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. The system is running. Yes, Maybeard, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? That's how we signed up. One minute! Dear colleagues, well, signed up, signed up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please, let's do it this way. Just a minute. We do. Well, one minute, dear fellows, one minute, we do, one minute, when some of us haven't been able to sign up, they blame the other side, because the other side blames the other. Ivan Grigorovich, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u2	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! There is an international conference in Ukraine dedicated to the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Undoubtedly, the Chernobyl disaster is a planetary tragedy that has no parallel in the world. About 200,000 square miles [200,000 sq km] of environmental land have been polluted, some 5 million hectares [5 million ha] of agricultural land. Hundreds of thousands of human tragedies have occurred. The International Conference, which is being held at the initiative of the President of Ukraine, is primarily aimed at consolidating actions, efforts by international society, responsible action by the authorities in support and control of society. Clearly, not only does it matter to us to solve the question of finding financial and material resources to create a clean environment in Chernobyl territory, it is fundamental for us to concentrate on world science, Ukrainian very painful, bitter experience. And on the basis of joint action, the Government of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, should develop, approve, with the participation of international society, a serious long-term programme to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, under constant monitoring, environmental and human influence, to work out all means of effective social protection and to support the hundreds of thousands of people affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Such a programme should be designed and approved, provided with human resources, financial resources, material resources and, of course, should be implemented. And that's what we have in common. Ukraine will continue to strengthen nuclear security efforts, to work closely with MAGATE. At the same time, we need to substantially strengthen our energy efficiency policy, alternative sources of energy. Such strategic tasks can be accomplished only on the basis of the concentration of our political will, mind, and responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u3	Moroko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is George Carmazin. Please, Vladimir Oilynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Ukrainian President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, Government of Ukraine and in general the faction of the Party of Regions attaches great importance to the development of self-government. Yesterday's government project on a local testimony referendum. At the same time, when meeting with voters, with representatives of local authorities, MPs feel the anxiety that arises at the level of local self - government, they need reinforcements, financial reinforcements of local self - government. And if we have such circumstances that when we adjust our budget, we should take the best possible steps to increase the financial support of local governments. Particularly in the area of financing so - called delegated powers. We need to go back to financial and housing reform programs. This year's program requires only 7 billion. I understand that those payments that citizens get would be easier to accept if they saw that there were some work being done in your house or next to your house to improve, to save energy, to replace the networks and so on. In this respect, therefore, we certainly need to keep the housing reform funding programme under control. The contradictions that have arisen in connection with the adoption of the Tax Code need to be eliminated. On the one hand, we did the right thing by introducing an excise tax on fuel, which is directed largely to repair, build, and maintain roads, instead of another tax from the owners of vehicles. But if in this budget in 2011, we have a subsidy of one and a half billion to local self-government authorities and we have already allocated over 700 million in March, we have another problem. That's the problem with these funds. Because when these costs come, it takes at least three months to conduct appropriate tendering procedures. But the roads need to be repaired immediately. That is why we need to support the proposal of the Association of Ukrainian Cities, which proposes to make changes to the budget. And also to the Codex Budget, where you can predict 20 percent of the congregation that would address these needs. I have to stop, I'd say, this is a bad practice when we allocate money at the end of the year. December 25 is no longer allowed, according to current legislation and all procedures, to absorb these costs. And that's why I'm deeply convinced that both the President of Ukraine and the government and the faction of the Party of Regions will keep under constant control those problems that arise in local self-government, solve them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u5	The word is Yuri Karmazin, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". He'll be followed by Kick-Ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u6	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! To address you on behalf of 84 Ukrainian national deputies, I have been forced by a huge threat to the national security of Ukraine, which is the course of investigation into the circumstances of the murder of a well-known journalist named Gongadze and the crimes that we learn from various types of television shows, press conferences and comments that are directly involved in this case in some form of people. As of March 27, 2011, the President of the neighbouring State was also accused. The community was informed that, I quote, "Melchenko Mikoli Ivanovich was offered $100 million from the murder payers. That's a fact. The fact is, too, that the negotiators of the negotiations were President Medvedev of Russia’s Administration in 2004. It's also an established fact." End of quote. I'm quoting from the Watcher website. Is this a crime report or the start of a pre-election campaign in the Russian Federation the day before the visit to Ukraine by another candidate to the President of Russia, Prime Minister Putin? How do we understand the statements made by the Russian oligarch Berezowski concerning the investigation of the case and the figures on the case? As we have learned, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office has been charged with a criminal case No. 49945 accusing Melnick of committing the crimes provided for in article 328, 358, 365 of the Criminal Code. However, it was closed without studying all the material and circumstances of the case, particularly the violation of an oath by a former personnel officer of the Security Service, the disclosure of a public secret, the gathering of information with a view to transmitting to foreign nations. According to the Henprocuratorial Decree of 1 March 2005 on the closure of the case, the Attorney General did not even question Melnicken and the conclusions on whether or not there was a criminal element was taken solely on the basis of public statements, a quote which, according to current legislation, could not be properly substantiated. At the same time, the scope and content of the information, which is a state secret, has also been examined repeatedly as a result of the collection of information referred to in the presentations. The question was not examined as to whether this information, which is a State secret, was passed on to the special services and law enforcement agencies of other countries during their stay and meetings with the representatives of these special services. Beyond the attention of the investigation, provocations have been made regarding the distribution of information about Ukraine's alleged sale of Kolchug, a radio-location monitoring system in Iraq, which has resulted in the loss of a number of international contracts by Ukraine, resulting in significant budget losses. As you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u7	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u8	As we know, it was later discovered that there was no such thing at all. But the government did not set up its customers, and it suffered tremendous losses. As a result, we believe that the decision of the Henprocuratorship to close and refuse criminal proceedings against Melnick is unfounded and illegal. Because of this, the investigation must be conducted fully, objectively, politically impartially. And we believe that a criminal case under the terms of article 364 has been reported to us, perhaps in extreme circumstances, or perhaps in actions there is a criminal element, provided for in article 111, 328 of the Code of Acts or in article 56 of the Old Code. I would also like to consider this statement to be a parliamentary request on behalf of 84 people's deputies, who are members of totally different factions of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u9	Thank you. What could be the actions of the Supreme Council, Yuri Anatolyevich, as a lawyer?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u10	Society, Adam Ivanovich, has to control these processes, and we don't have to be a testing range and start.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u11	Okay, thanks. Bullying Gennady, the reform group for the future. Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u12	Gennady Zadirko, MP of Reforms for the Future, People's Power Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! In his speech, the Reform for the Future Group wants to raise questions about the growth of corruption in environmental inspection. We have recently witnessed a real case of corruption on the part of environmental inspectors, controlling the state authorities before the ship's crew." Under the flag of Liberia, which entered one of the ports of Ukraine. The announcement took place after the official appeal of Liberia to international maritime organizations, IMO and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine with a complaint of corruption and adversarial in the controlling authorities of Ukraine’s ports, which is at the disposal of one of the leading Ukrainian media. The statement states that when foreign ships are parked in Ukrainian ports, contrary to international practice, in addition to mandatory port congregations, additional illegal withdrawals are made for the purpose of not carrying out a laboratory analysis of sewage and ballast waters on a vessel that may take days and lead to a simple ship, awaiting its results. As I understand it, today in the environmental inspection of ballast water quality control, this is one of the captain's favorite methods of pressure. According to the paper, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has repeatedly received reports of corruption in Ukraine’s ports. In particular, on the part of the Association of Turkish Shipowners, a number of shipping companies estimate the annual turnover of this business from $10 million to $15 million. Environmental harassment is so widespread that the world’s leading insurance companies refuse to cover the risks of shipowners in Ukrainian ports, and many large shipowners have in general banned their ships from entering Ukrainian ports. I am convinced that this position of environmental inspectors of ships is welcomed by their leadership, and management is not going to make any effort to change it for the better. From an economic point of view, the refusal of shipowners to cooperate with the ports of Ukraine is extremely negative, as it entails lower revenues to the State budget of Ukraine, which today during the global economic crisis is unacceptable for our country. The Ukrainian Parliamentary Group of the Supreme Council of Reforms for the Future addressed the President, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, requesting immediate action to address these problems, namely bringing ballast water DSTU to European standards, bringing criminal responsibility to the guilty and eliminating such corruption schemes. Take all necessary measures to prevent similar situations in the future, as I believe that such actions by Ukrainian officials undermine the authority of the President of Ukraine and the State of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u13	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Prepare Litwinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u14	The Communist faction, President of the Veterans' Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, the glorious veterans of war! The 66th anniversary of the Great Homeland War and the 70th anniversary of the Great Homeland War are approaching. These dates have become key determining in the destiny not only of the people of Ukraine, not only of the Soviet people, but of all mankind, the whole planet. And today, in advance of these fateful dates, we will recall once again the immeasurable feat of the Soviet soldier, the heroism of the Fatherland's defenders on the front and the back, which allowed us to win a great victory over the forces of evil -- over fascism. In honor of the winners, we are obliged to re-evaluate, analyze how the veteran frontalist is living today, the trainee of the rear, the man of advanced age, and do everything, at least what we can today to improve his life. To this end, the Organization of Ukrainian Veterans, supported by the faction of the Company of Ukraine, has initiated an all-Ukrainian campaign “Ukraine – Frontists of the Great Homeland War”. Within it, we have addressed the first persons of the State: President Viktor Fedorovic Yanukovic of Ukraine, Prime Minister Nikolay Janović Azarov of Ukraine, President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Vladimir Mihajlović of Lithuania, asking for full support for this action: real assistance to war veterans. At the insistence of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization, Deputy Prime Minister Tigipco instructed the heads of the regional administrations to join in this patriotic work. Together with the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Ilya Nikolaevich Emc, we sent a joint letter with two signatures to guide the areas asking them to be systematic in their work. And today I want to address all the leaders of the country, large and small, central and regional, and remember your son's debt to these people, and remember that you have received your country and your posts thanks to them. Surround these people, who are wounded, afflicted with sickness and poverty, often forgotten, cared for and cared for, and provided them with medical, legal, and material assistance. It is a whole era, a living history of a country that must be protected and maintained. Bring the brotherly graves and burials to order, pay tribute to the still living veterans of war, by word of mouth, and give them dignity, as it befits a nation that respects itself, let us mark the brightest, heroic page of our history. I'm sure it's our duty not only to the veterans, the creators of the great victory, but to our sons and grandchildren, the heirs of the Great Victory. I ask once again for all the support of war veterans, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u15	Thank you. Litwinov, faction. Batecheva, please, Tetjana Bacheviva. Prepare Chetchev. Bondick instead of Chechtchev? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u16	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected people's deputies, without a quality, effective health system, cannot be a healthy nation, but therefore a strong and competitive economy. That is why the President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorović Janukovic, has identified the health sector as a priority among all the 2010-2014 reforms. Health is no longer waiting, but requires major changes, and this is evidenced by the severe demographic crisis and the state of health of citizens. At the same time, 86 people die in Ukraine, and only 52,500 Ukrainians are born to account for tuberculosis, two million Ukrainian families are in the study of female or male infertility, and one child under one year of age dies every two hours. Of course, this suggests that the health system requires fundamental changes. The health sector reform programme has already been developed. It includes the delimitation of primary, secondary and third levels of medical care and the adoption of regulations. It is also an optimisation of the nomadic fund and a modernization of the network of treatment facilities. Today, unfortunately, opposition representatives are very often critical of the closure of treatment facilities. But that's not really true. There is a re-profiling and modernization of treatment facilities. Because, over the past 20 years, there has been funding not for the treatment of every patient, but for the financing of the cot, which, of course, leads to the facts that we have. Health reform primarily covers at least 10 per cent of GDP, strict control of the quality and price of medicines, universal prevention of AIDS, HIV infection, tuberculosis. And it must be a transition to public health insurance. In recent months, we, our committee, together with the Supreme Council, have been able to make a number of important decisions. These are changes to the budget code, which has already significantly improved the financing of rural medicine. The laws of the new edition of AIDS and HIV infection, tuberculosis, have been adopted. We are finalizing the drafting of the new Law on Medicines and Immunoprophylactics. And of course, each of us is well aware of the fact that reforms cannot be implemented without funding. For this year, 550 million bracelets have been allocated to the regions under the subsidies for which equipment is to be purchased, the necessary supplies of expenditure in each region. 110 million bracelets have been allocated.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u17	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u18	on the reproductive health programme. And tomorrow, 21 April, the President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic, will open a district hospital in the Chercas region, which unfortunately we have not had in all 19 years. This is a very necessary gift for young people in the Chercas region. Ladies and gentlemen, we look forward to the adoption of the necessary laws, which will give us the Cabinet of Ministers, and I am deeply confident that all of us, members of the people, regardless of party membership and without populism, will support the adoption of the necessary legislation and work together to ensure that health reforms are implemented as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u19	Bondik, please prepare Suprunenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u20	Highly esteemed, national MPs! Honorable Predestination! You know, reforming the judiciary is a guarantee of the democratic state and the existence of a proper level of justice in our country. With the President of Ukraine's reform course, you and I have succeeded in adopting the Basic Law in this room, and I would call it the Bible of justice, the Law on Justice and the Status of Judges. This law has indeed begun to work, and we have voluntarily, even the President, renounced some of our powers, which have been nothing but pressure on the judicial system. And you know, statistics today show that there's been an increase in trust in courts, small but 10 percent. Why did this happen? This happened because, firstly, it was introduced according to this law in some trials, such as the economic process, the automatic distribution of cases. Now we've avoided that the head of the court could push cases to solve a particular case, which is not a bad and progressive phenomenon that now exists in accordance with this law. Unfortunately, however, there is still such a thing as failure to implement international court decisions, for example, such statistics, as decided by the European Court of Justice in 2010, and 109 decisions have been taken, and many more than 80 million dollars have been recovered from Ukraine. You know, it's not for the authority of the state. When we are under the supervision of the European Commission on Democracy for Law, the Venice Commission, our state must abide by the commitments it makes voluntarily. So testing the proper level of the judicial system should be done here in the hall with you. You know, there are a lot of questions about the selection of judicial personnel right now, but here you and I have solved this issue in the law, because now the exams are being passed anonymously and selectively, that is, the tests that are being introduced. Dear colleagues, we still have a lot of work to do to improve judicial reform, but we can't do that without it. That's why we can't move forward, because the right level of justice is trust in us, in power, and it's a guarantee of a decent life for our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u21	Please. Mutz instead of Companion, prepare Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u22	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. Dear colleagues, landowners, last week’s Regional Committee for Economic Reform in Lviv testified, and today’s authorities do not divide Ukraine into the East and the West. For the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic, it is important that people live well and realize that the authorities are capable of carrying out their duties, as stated by one of the priorities of the nation’s development. The National Project "Olympic Hope-2022", which the Head of State is convinced is to become an integral strategy for socio-economic development in the Western region. After all, it is about rebuilding sports, tourism, and transport infrastructure, as well as solving the problem of employment. As stressed, the organization of the project will help create 100,000 jobs in the tourism sector in western Ukraine and 500,000 in the adjacent fields. The important thing for farmers, including Westerners, is this: Today’s authorities have drawn attention to such an important resource from the development of the country as the earth. Only proper reform can stop corruption in this area. At the same time, the president stresses that no farming family working on earth will be discredited. This is about overcoming the interests of the peasant and the village. While orange rule, particularly in Galicina, was the norm for peasants, landslides, speculation, and not efficient farming and production. Today, agricultural activity must be stopped at both the legislative and the executive levels. A government position is appropriate: reforms in the agricultural sector serve as a guarantee of the food security of the state. The price stability and uninterrupted supply of food includes responsibility and heads of local administrations. The position of the Head of State regarding the abuse of the effects of natural disasters in Western areas was also just, namely, that the stolen funds should be recovered. After all, the work of today’s authorities is aimed at restoring the hopes stolen by the predecessors, at rebuilding each region of the state and Ukraine as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u23	Yes, please, Mikola Sherschun.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u24	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head, dear colleagues! In public policy on eliminating the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, emphasis needs to be changed. This is not the case with officials but with the words of liquidators, residents of the six polluted regions of the Plains and scientists who have recently gathered to discuss common problems. As a result, the Chernobylites stressed that they were tired of the status; they did not want that fate for their children, grandchildren, and grandchildren. That is why we have prepared an appropriate request to the President and the Government of Ukraine to fully implement the parliamentary hearing recommendations of April 4, this year. Because it is in them that it is clear that the affected areas should be viewed, not as zones of permanent radiation pollution, but as promising areas, capable of taking a decent place in the Ukrainian economy. Thus, the main task of public policy is to heal polluted areas. Because Polisia is a region with favourable natural conditions for the management of plants and animals, and the major reviving of the territories will contribute to the recovery of the population. As a result, it will be necessary to allocate funds for the treatment of the Chernobyl population, the relocation from the polluted cities, and so forth. As an example, during the first four years after the plane crash, 40,000 hectares of land were ambushed, and by 1997, the standards of permissible agricultural pollution had been reduced three times. Today, the recovery of the earth has been forgotten, and in recent years the number of contaminated APCs has increased by as much as 3 percent. The bottom line: chemical meliorization, limestone, and other measures, is the prospect of restoring the territories that, as I mentioned above, have to take a decent place in the economy of the state. Of course, the accompanying of the above measures and the active implementation of the policy of restoring the ecological state of the polluted territories will only have an effect if someone is specifically responsible. Sooner or later, we will return to the question of creating a single national centralized body to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. I would very much like to believe that the government will listen to the proposals, the requests, the demands of the representatives of all 6 polluted areas of the Equinox region, because I am confident that in their words the truth that I believe will find is confirmed. And in a large forum for solving the Chernobyl problems that is taking place in Kiev following the initiative and direct participation of President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u25	Yes, thank you. The speeches are over. In view of the fact that the BUT faction did not sign up, no one was included in the number, they have a guaranteed right to speak in connection with certain circumstances. Who, Ivan Grigorovich? Cowchuck, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u26	Basil Krawczuk, Faction "BUT" - "Fatherland." It is said that the earth endures all things. And she still endures, especially the cynicism of today’s authority. In the pre-election program of Viktor Yanukovic, much is promised for the restoration of the Ukrainian village. In a year, however, there was no point. The President's empty talks were joined by Prime Minister Mikola Azarov. During his meeting with the President of the European Commission yesterday, he stated that the European Union market in Ukraine was very interesting for the sale of agricultural goods. Commenting on his inaccessibility, Prime Minister Azarov said, "Ukraine is a developing country and much of its production is an agricultural sector." But why is the European community not in a hurry to open its markets to Ukrainian agricultural producers? I mean, who wants to deal with a country that's on the verge of another social explosion? The tension in the Ukrainian countryside of farmers is increasing. The fact that the President and his team are bulldozing the people of Ukraine is indignant is that the Law on the Market of the Earth is being enacted by the President and his team. The villagers realize that they want to take away their last unsold wealth, the land. And it is equally indignant to see how Ukrainian farmers survive from villages and villages. By optimizing the health system and the rural education system, FAPs, outpatients, and small - size schools are closing down. Without social infrastructure, 15 million Ukrainians living in rural areas are doomed to disgraceful existence. Compare, this was much more than it was on Maidan in 2004. It's hundreds of playgrounds. And they will be if they don't stop the systematic destruction of Ukrainian agriculture. Then I would like to ask Mr. Azarov: What development did he try to tell European politicians yesterday? Is it not the case with the Greeks of China? But if only that were the case. Animalry has been virtually destroyed. During the year, the headship of the World Summit in all categories fell by 353,000 heads. Little wonder, then, that the decline in milk and meat production has dropped to a critical limit. But will it be necessary to buy milk and meat in the lower heavens in time? Because of the introduction of the Tax Code and quotas, the Institute of Agricultural Economics estimates the loss of farmers to 30-35 billion dollars. All the resources for the village increased by 60 to 80 percent compared to the corresponding period last year. As a result, today's sociable campaign is twice as expensive as last year's. What will this lead to? Until an unprecedented increase in food prices next year. In the meantime, it is no longer Greek for the citizens, but the common rye has become a delicacy. There's no talking about dairy, no talking about vegetables. Can we take care of our food security first? I find it unacceptable that the descendants of the ancient farmers will own one single supply of land 2 square feet [2 sq m] in rural areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u27	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, statements have been made, announcements have been completed. I ask the MPs Karmazin and 84 members of the people to make his statement as a request to the Attorney General's Office. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. We are considering the issue of registration number 0203, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on State Social Assistance to members of families of military personnel who have died in Afghanistan and other states in which hostilities have taken place. First Deputy Defence Minister Možarovsky Volodymir Mikolayovich will report. Short cut? Who's in favour of looking at the abbreviated, please vote. [[10:39:40]] For 190 Supported. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The State Social Assistance Agreement was signed on September 24, 1993 by members of families of military personnel killed in Afghanistan and other war states. According to article 5 of the covenant, it is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of the 12 countries, the signatory states are not only ratified by Ukraine and Moldova. The need for ratification of the agreement is caused by Ukraine's international obligations both in the world arena and before the signatory States. In accordance with Article 1 of the Agreement, the size and manner of payment of the aid is determined by the national legislation of the signatory States. The bill, the implementation of the bill should it be adopted, will not result in additional costs, as expenditure has been invested in the State budget of Ukraine. The bill is accepted without notice with the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Pension Fund of Ukraine with observations taken into account with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, supports the position of the Ministry of Defence. And the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its foreign affairs meeting on April 6, this year, unanimously recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratify the treaty. The report was completed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u29	Thank you. Please sit down. The committee is Oleg Grigorovich Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u30	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! In accordance with article 197 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered comprehensively the draft Law of the Cabinet of Ministers on the Ratification of the Agreement on State Social Assistance to members of families of military personnel who have been killed in Afghanistan and other states in which hostilities have taken place. The agreement will provide the necessary legal basis for dealing with additional benefits for parents, widows, children, and other members of the families of military personnel who died in the military service in Afghanistan and other states in which hostilities took place. In line with the conclusion of the Ministry of Defence, the implementation of the Treaty will not lead to additional financial and material costs from the State budget of Ukraine, since the payments set out in this document are made in accordance with the law in force under the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Rules Committee, the National Security and Defence Committee, the Committee on Budget Affairs reviewed the bill and concluded that its implementation would not require additional expenditure from the State budget and that the bill could be ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the recommendation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u31	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Shall we discuss it? Sign up. Please, Karpuk Vladimir. Rubinsky's after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u32	Vladimir Karpuk. Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u33	Microphone, please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Well, it probably shouldn't be discussed if it was a completely simple matter of passage, in line. The point is that we are now trying to ratify, think about, the convention, the agreement signed in 1993 by the SND countries. In 20 years, we haven't been able to ratify an elementary document that allowed, in fact, people who lost their children during the Afghanistan War to get one-off help and benefit from pensions. But the Ukrainian state, by the way, had resolved that question. She passed a special Act on Social Protection for Soldiers and Their Families, where the issue is largely resolved. At the same time, we refer here to the statute of the SND and make it the basis of a legal basis of ratification that we have not ratified ourselves, because we are not, among other things, still members of the SND. So there's a perfectly complicated legal structure here. Now who's willing to pull this naphthalene-derived document and show that we're actively starting to move towards SND or what's its purpose? I realize that it should be ratified and forgotten, but it is a disgrace to those who have forgotten it for 20 years. And in view of that, I think we should not allow this kind of slap to continue. If there are morally outdated documents, it's better not to go back to them than from this kind of, you know, unattractive face here to discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u35	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u36	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, your esteemed colleagues, our faction will vote unanimously in favour of the ratification of this covenant, and not only because we remember the expression well, but I do not know if it fits this situation, or whether it is not necessary for the dead, it is necessary for the living. Mothers, children, and sisters did not ask whether they wanted or did not want their children to go to war for real war with unexpected results. If a situation occurs when their children, their brothers, their parents are killed, then those who remain should be provided with all possible assistance that the State can and may not provide. And in this regard, speaking of what the previous colleague was saying, I would like to point out that two important positions are made in this agreement, and if there was nothing else, it would have to be ratified from these two positions alone. I will say that the parties also consider it appropriate to provide for the pension benefits of members of families of military personnel who have died or died in Afghanistan and other states, this is article 2. And another position: The parties acknowledge that it is necessary to extend to the families of soldiers who have died or died to the families of soldiers who died in the Great War. [[Article 3 of the Agreement]] Therefore, I think ratification and our unanimous vote for this ratification is justice and morality in relation to those living and to the memory of those dead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u37	Yes, please, yes, yes, Popescu, 1 minute, Gordienko, 1 minute, and Tomenko, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u38	Masterful colleagues! The agreement provides for the determination of the extent and manner of payment of one-time assistance to parents and other members of families of military personnel who have died or died as a result of injuries, as well as disability, injury, illness resulting from hostilities in Afghanistan or in other states. I point out that this is not only Afghanistan, but also other countries to which we sent our troops. One second. As our colleague Zarubinski noted, the benefits that we provide for the members of this family will be at the same level as for the soldiers who died in the Great War. Based on the above, and given that there is little time, on behalf of the Party of Regions, I want to say that the Party of Regions will vote in favour, because we are doing our pre-election program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u39	Yes, please, Gordien, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u40	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, today the Afghans are gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council. They're very concerned about those bills that the government is making. And in the context of our consideration of today's bill, I would like to say that they demand the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection. They demand that a moratorium be introduced on the substitution of benefits for monetary purposes. They demand that the criminal law on State guarantees be stopped for execution of court decisions. They say that the mother of the deceased today in this country gets only $15. For the UK Company, it is not a question, it will support ratification. And we demand that Afghan proposals be taken into account in the adoption of Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u41	Please. Thank you. Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I'd like us to take a little closer to this bill. But I'm his, and this initiative, and this idea of a cynicism is so typical. The government has passed a bill to which. The bill is known sadly, 7562, which in fact wants to stop or review all benefits to Afghans, war veterans; which by our decree of April 5, we obliged the government to withdraw. The government has not so far recalled the bill. So, at risk, even small, benefits for the Afghans who are today. Instead, we are made a treaty that was signed 18 years ago, which we 18 years ago are implementing with protocols and laws. This ratification won't add a penny. So to the Afghans who came to us, I would advise the President to go to the government, not the Supreme Council, and to demand that the bill be repealed, and to demand that the government do as much as the Afghans do. So ratification -- from a formal point of view, you can do that, but it doesn't add or subtract anything. Today, we have to ask the question that before May 9, veterans and Afghans would at least pay for what is prescribed by law. This will be respect for those who went through the war: both the Great Fatherland and Afghan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u43	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to ratify the Agreement on State Social Assistance to members of families of military personnel who have died in Afghanistan and other states where fighting has taken place. [[Registration number 0203]] Please vote. [[10:52:06]] For 295 The law is passed. Thank you. We are discussing the draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the transport of nuclear materials between the Russian Federation and the Slovak Republic through Ukraine. [[Registration number 0205]] There's an offer: a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[10:52:44]] For-198 A decision has been made. Reported the head of the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate, Nikolaychuk Olena Anatoliyevna. Get ready for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the Transport of Nuclear Materials between the Russian Federation and the Slovak Republic through Ukraine. This agreement, signed in Bratislava on October 21, 2010, is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council in accordance with article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. To date, the transit of nuclear materials between the Slovak Republic and the Russian Federation through Ukraine is carried out on the basis of an international agreement concluded in 1993. Ukraine was initiated to review it as a result of changes in legislation, including such important security issues, regarding civil liability for nuclear damage in the event of a nuclear accident in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage, the order of escorting special cargoes to Ukraine. In addition, the revised MAGATE standards for the safe transport of radioactive materials have been revised since 93 C.E. It should be noted that during the entire period of the agreement there were no accidents in Ukraine. An average of four shipments per year, 300-320 fuel collections, are carried out annually. The agreement that is proposed for ratification deals sufficiently with the issue of transport security, including nuclear and radiation safety, the protection of special cargo and the distribution of party responsibility in carrying out such transports, the provision of guarantees for the safety of the population and the environment. The agreement takes into account the provisions and principles of the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage, the Convention on Physical Protection, the Convention on Operational Notification, the Convention on Assistance in the Event of an Accident, the United Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel and Radioactive Wastes, the rules on the safe transport of radioactive materials in accordance with the safety standards of MAGATE. The conclusion of the above-mentioned agreement will allow for the improvement of the legislative framework in relations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation and the Slovak Republic in the transport of nuclear materials and the determination of clear mechanisms for the interaction of the competent authorities of the parties to the treaty at all stages of the transport of nuclear materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u46	Dear Chairman! People's deputies! As head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting, he examined carefully and comprehensively and discussed the bill and unanimously endorsed its ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ratification of the agreement will help to resolve security issues and share the responsibility of the parties when international transfers of nuclear materials are made and will ensure that appropriate contractual and legal conditions are created to guarantee environmental security while international cooperation in this sector is carried out. The draft law is designed to implement by the Ukrainian side all the internal procedures necessary for the validity of the agreement. In line with the conclusion of the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate, as we have heard, the conclusion of the treaty does not require the allocation of additional budgetary resources for its implementation. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committee on Rules, the Committee on State Budget Issues, the Committee on European Integration recommend that the draft law be tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council for decision-making. Please support the committee's positive recommendation decision in foreign matters and ratify the agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u47	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Karpuk Vladimir Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u49	Please, it's Karpuka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u50	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". For the latest events that took place in Japan at the Fukushima nuclear station, which, by the way, translates as an island of happiness, and we need to be very careful about concluding such agreements. This tripartite agreement was signed in 2010 between the governments of the Russian Federation, Ukraine, and the Slovak Republic, and article four of this agreement states that it is necessary to conclude these agreements. And the second part of this article says that the Ukrainian side provides transit of special cargo through Ukraine and so on. So we don't know what kind of economic gain Ukraine has that is serving, we know, transit for transporting many dangerous goods to Europe. We remember the situation, the accident that occurred in the Lviv region in the village of Ozděv, and how much difficulty there was in providing conditions and, for example, compensation for the situation that might arise. Therefore, in concluding such agreements, we must not speak in the Preamble of this agreement, which is out of the interests or of the Russian Federation, or because the Slovak Republic is a member of the EU and so on, but first of all, out of the interests of Ukraine, these agreements should, of course, be, but above all they should have an economic effect on Ukraine, and compensation, foreseen, and above all, to think about the security of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u51	Caplienne, the Reform Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! The MP's "For the Future" group discussed the ratification of this agreement and we've identified the next positive position from the following. It is not news that the transit of such materials through Ukraine has not lasted for the first year. To this day, however, the issue of escorting, or logistics, these goods and nuclear materials through Ukraine, has not been resolved. Only when we join the agreement between Slovakia, Russia and Ukraine on the transit of nuclear materials is it the first time that transit takes place at the expense of the Ukrainian side. We do not allow any military or any group in the territory of Ukraine, and that is a positive fact. The second question. Adherence to the requirements of the Vienna Convention provides for a solution to the issues of damage compensation in the event of a nuclear incident. I'll remind you that the transport of materials is intended only for those that haven't been emitted, that is, those that have not yet been processed are the fabrication and TVS of nuclear power stations in Russia, Ukraine or Slovakia. That is why we also support such a thesis because the additional insurance guarantees for our nation will not be unnecessary. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" group will support this agreement in 20 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u53	Please, Pavlovsky will pass it on to Shevchuk, please. It's Jura Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u54	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, it is known that Ukraine is a transit state, but in recent times Ukraine has been transformed into a state of stretches, slides in Russian. Look for ourselves, NATO and I have ratified an agreement to transport military cargo to Afghanistan by our railway and our territory, from Afghanistan we do not know that, more likely, all the heroin that NATO countries have accumulated for a century as strategic weapons, we have an agreement with Kazakhstan on the transport of toxic chemicals, remember the accident near Ozdov, our colleague Kuzmuk, who was at risk of life then saved this situation. Now we will continue to drive wastes from Europe, from Russia to fuel, to Russia to waste, to Ukraine and it is surprising that the government in this situation says that there is no need for this ratification. But people are good, we have several accidents with human casualties every year on the railway crossings. Is there no need for funds to ensure the transport of these goods, is there any need for concern? Well, there are no green factions in the Ukrainian Parliament today, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't worry about the environment. Well, we can't vote as unanimously as one diplomat said, to vote for this ratification, turning the state of Ukraine, indeed, into a state where there can be a future European garbage dump. Before ratifying this agreement, I think we should consider allocating additional funds from the budget to ensure the safety of the transport of such goods by the Railroad. Otherwise, for 10 years, we sign off on such an unpleasant and difficult situation, and then we don't know how to get out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u55	Oleg Zarubinski, please, and Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u56	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It's really not an easy deal. And, in principle, if there was no form of short reading, I would like to ask a few questions about the subject of the legislative initiative. The only thing we can do for objectivity is to say that Ukraine is already transporting dangerous goods in transit without this agreement. If this agreement regulates this issue, if it's aimed at security, at security, then that's obviously a positive one. Because, Sergey Volodymyrovich, without an agreement, you realize that Ukraine is in this case a transitor, only a transitor. What kind of question do I have? We read in Article 8 of the Treaty: "The elimination of the consequences of an accident in the transport of special cargo, including a nuclear incident, as well as security and communications in the area of the accident, is being carried out by a party in the territory of the State of which this accident occurred." That's a real problem. What if, then, if the culprit, for example, these railway wheels, these wheeled couples were misequipped, equipped on the spot, from where they go through the territory of Ukraine, Ukraine follows this article and is the culprit, and they rely on it. If there was an opportunity to explain this question, I think there would be doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u57	Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u58	Thank you. I wanted to get to the basics right away. First. Sharing the concerns of our colleague Zarubinsky about what he said, we would like to point out that the ratification of the agreement will not only create the proper legal basis for implementation. But the main thing that we wanted to pay attention to is the provision of such dangerous materials from the point of view of nuclear and radiation safety. And that's what's important to Ukraine, and it's for this part that we're going to ratify. Thank you, the Party of Regions will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u59	Dear national MPs, one minute, you're asking me to abide by the law. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on the Approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the Transport of Nuclear Material between the Russian Federation and the Slovak Republic through Ukraine (register No. 0205). Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:06:43]] For 260 Decision taken. I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to abide by the rules of morality and human behavior. Dear colleagues, don't take the liberty of getting hurt all over Ukraine. Here, the people who are sitting are the least likely to hurt you for Ukraine. Calm down! Ladies and gentlemen, I am acting under the law! A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibility of officials for hindering entrepreneurial activities is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 7535]] The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Natalia Jurijovna Královska. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement issues, Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. Yes, how will we view it? Short cut, huh? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u60	Okay, why the short-term procedure? We're not cut short.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u61	What are you saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u62	I'm telling you, why are we cut? [[11:07:59]] For 214 Decision taken. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u63	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, I propose to your attention a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to strengthen the responsibility of officials for obstacles to business. [[No. 7535]] The purpose of the bill is to strengthen the responsibility of the public servant for interference with the work of entrepreneurs. That is to say, we call for severe sanctions against corrupt officials who abuse their jobs and who violate the business law. What is happening throughout the country today? There is a raid by the raiding of enterprises when, by manipulating laws, manipulations of checks, impunity, the imposition of completely unproven fines and the transfer of businesses to bankruptcy. Today, thousands of enterprises are forced to go to courts to defend their rights and responsibilities, paralyzing their activities, firing people and thus destroying the economy. You know me as well as I do about the level of corruption among officials today, on which small businesses and medium-sized businesses depend anyway. Entrepreneurs today cannot take action to prevent bribes from being demanded from the smallest official, ending with the leaders of regional and central structures. You also know that the reason for all of this is permissiveness and irresponsibility. Today, all people throughout the country say, "We are insolvent, we have no right to do or protect ourselves and the people who work in these enterprises." Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask that I vote in favour of the bill and strengthen the responsibility of officials and that I introduce the personal responsibility of today's officials and of the supervisory authorities so that all of this is not covered by the word "State executive power" but by personal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u64	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u65	to be a personal responsibility, and a serious responsibility, of officials. This is the only way we will be able to protect people today who are taking the initiative, who are doing something in our country, not sitting on the neck of the State budget. I ask you very much to support this bill and to adopt it on first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u66	Yes. Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement dealt with a draft of the Ukrainian Royal Law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to increase the responsibility of officials to prevent entrepreneurial activity. The purpose of the bill is to increase the responsibility of officials who act as authorities or as local government, as well as of law enforcement agencies. The bill proposes to amend a number of valid legal acts in Ukraine, including the Ukrainian Labour Code, the Ukrainian Administrative Offences Code, the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the Ukrainian Militia Act, the Ukrainian State Service Act, the Citizens' Appeal Act, the National Regulatory Policy Principles in the Field of Economic Activity. After considering a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the liability of officials for obstacles to entrepreneurial activity, the Committee noted that in the series of its provisions, Bills 6353 of 28 April 2010, which had been removed from Parliament and Bill 7038, were rejected as a result of a first reading review by the Supreme Council. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee made a number of important comments. It should be noted that the position of the bill committee is based on the conclusions of the Ministry of Justice, the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General's Office, which does not support the initiatives proposed in this bill. In addition, experts from leading scientific research institutions were involved in the drafting of the bill, and they also expressed the need for substantive drafting of the bill. The same is true of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. On the basis of this, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of the first reading of the bill, return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for Bill 7535. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u69	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT - "Fatherhood", Equality. It's obvious that this bill has to be adopted, at least because of what is the biggest obstacle to registration, in others, let's say, the registration procedures are those officials who have done everything they can to get 30 percent of businesses to apply to small businesses in Ukraine. And that's already official. Four hundred thousand small entrepreneurs today have closed down their businesses just because they're being pushed by officials, they're taxing and they're not responsible. Clearly, there is a need to raise funds for the budget. But not the way that just the last of those who hold 2 out of 3-4 men who are given a job that fills a budget need to be destroyed. I therefore propose to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u70	Vladimir Matthew refers the right to speak to Catherine Samuel. Please, the microphone. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u71	I probably wouldn't have asked for a word if I hadn't been deeply pierced by the rapporteur's words. They're sitting on the heads of the budget. Who do you mean? Teachers? So you pray to the Lord God while you were stealing from the State, and these people taught your children. Do you mean the doctors, the people who, even in this difficult situation, are wise to treat people with nothing and perform surgery? You are referring to cultural workers who continue to work in the name of the State when they receive the minimum wage. In fact, your laws remind me of pear action, lobbying for what I'm fair and what I'm honest with. Here's a question for you. Why didn't you solve the question before? Why did you suddenly see that around, well, so many repressive levers? They were gone before? They were. Then why were the authorities warming up? Because they were in power. Or why did you not, for example, ever synonymize such a question: amending the Criminal Code for people who are entrepreneurs, businessmen to pay in envelopes; for people who are destined to receive a miserable pension? That's what we're doing right now. And we're just, let's protect the poor, the unhappy. And millions of poor and unhappy people who, when they retire, will receive a minimum. Do you ever say that or not? Or just before the election? You can't support populism, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u72	Thank you. Catherinechuk, please, from the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u73	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine Thank you, Prince. Thank you for giving me your word. Now, my colleague just, well, I was speaking, so I understand that she was not giving her thorough comments before the law. Because this is about increasing the responsibility of the control authorities by clarifying the rules on compensation to government officials for damages in the state. It also refers to changes to the Labour Act, changes to citizens' information, to the Criminal Code. You know, it's probably one of the parts that needs to be done, because in fact, there's no responsibility for controlling the organs that have caused damage to entrepreneurs. And that's why the Royal Deputy's initiative is absolutely just and correct, and it's timely. We need to start something. And the non-admission of the Tax Code, to which the opposition has proposed, speaks of only one thing: most have collapsed tax reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u74	One minute, Tolstenko, faction of the Party of Regions. All the factions came out, didn't they?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u75	At first glance, the idea of the project is right and beneficial in terms of the protection of citizens’ right to entrepreneurship. But the consideration of the proposals presented shows that the issue that the author is trying to resolve is already settled in separate normative acts. For example, chapter 12 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences regulates the question of the responsibility of entrepreneurial activity, and criminal responsibility is regulated by relevant articles of the Criminal Code, where the author proposes only to change sanctions, i.e. sentences. Today, articles 166-10, 166-11, 166-12 of the Administrative Code have established the responsibility of the authorized authorities, their officials for the types of offences, such as violations of the terms of the decision to issue a document of a permissive nature, ignorance by the administrator of the holder of the receiving entity of the relevant documents, etc. Legislation also provides for sanctions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u76	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u77	Therefore, according to what has been said, support should be given to the decision of the committee of profile and return Bill 7535 to the drafter of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u78	Thank you. Yeah, let's do it this way. We're on our way. One minute, one minute after you've finished the question, you'll have a line. Well, please, the Royal Replica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! We can of course believe that there are doctors and teachers on the neck of the Ukrainian economy, but I wish to disappoint you, unfortunately, that there are taxpayers on the neck of the budget and the economy, there are representatives of the controlling authorities, there are militias, there are those who are taking billions of bracelets out of there and thus putting on their knees today, and there is economic activity and perspective in our country. And our doctors and teachers are being destroyed today, and they don't get what they're being budgeted for, so have a conscience. And we insist that all the fines be returned, all the thefts from the budget are the ones that are contributing to this today, and it has been reimbursed by the supervisory authorities that are burying the Ukrainian economy today. And you don't have to hide in beautiful words. The responsible should be clear about their personal punishment and should personally compensate for the loss of the budget. Whoever broke the law from the supervisory authorities should have the same responsibility as everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u80	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to draft the bill. The main scientific and expert office concluded that the bill should be returned to work. At the same time, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, as a basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibility of officials to prevent entrepreneurial activities. [[Registration number 7535]] Please vote. [[11:21:54]] For-83 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a second proposal: the return of a bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Please vote. [[11:22:21]] For-90 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – "Patkaščina" – 66, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, Communist faction – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 14, People's Party – 0, "Afterfaction" – 5. Ladies and gentlemen, you now have a proposal for a bill establishing a moratorium on certain measures of State oversight in the field of economic activity. [[control]] The reporter is Natalia Juryovna Královska. The committee’s head is the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Karakai, right? Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you that the committee has not considered this bill. But since it was registered in 25/01/11, we have every reason to consider it. Short cut? I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:23:39]] For-198 Decision taken. Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u81	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! In the past two days, you and I have denied people the right to work between legal and natural persons. And by your decisions, you've thrown more than 200,000 workers into the street. By the following decision, you relieved the controllers of any responsibility and did not assign them personal and personal responsibility. And now we're facing a third decision, it's in your right to take it or not to take it. But what I want you to see is that people see it all, and people see it when you add budget lines to the state apparatus, and people see it very well when you expand the powers and capacities of the supervisory authorities to repress economically independent people today in the country. I therefore propose to your attention a bill establishing a moratorium on certain State oversight and control activities in the field of economic activity. The purpose of this bill is to introduce a moratorium on corporate tax checks by single and fixed taxpayers. That is, prohibit the tax authorities from carrying out checks on entrepreneurs until the beginning of the following year. What's going on today? The first raids were prior to New Year’s Eve, when all the controllers decided to go to the market and cover themselves with the new day’s tables, then they all passed before March 8 when they decided to store themselves on the table for free or for free by 8 March. Now, before the Passover, they're starting to go and collect food from everyone who's still working today. So then all this data is being invested in the prices of a corrupt tax, and it's being paid by all the residents in our country. Therefore, we propose to impose a moratorium on checks and allow people to work calmly and to adapt peacefully today to new conditions. Because if we don't stop this mess that we're doing today, there is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u82	Microphone, please
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u83	Initiatives such as collecting a tax on freedom, dropping one bracelet a day, hiring lawyers, hiring security firms and protecting themselves, and protecting their jobs. And if you don't stop what's going on in the country, it's finally going to turn into completely unhealthy positions. Therefore, I would like to support this bill and to stop those supervisory authorities who will collect taxes from all businesses in our country once again at the Passover. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u84	Thank you. Yes, responsible by Karakai Committee Yuri Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u85	The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, unfortunately, did not consider the bill, but the draft conclusion, which the committee has prepared, will be considered today, speaks of the following. The bill proposes to establish a moratorium on small business entities by tax authorities as of January 1, 2012. However, the project does not refer to tax checks on State oversight in the field of economic activity. At the same time, the authorities of the State Tax Service, in accordance with the current Tax Code, are the supervisory authorities only for taxes charged to the budget and the State trust funds. Based on the above, the authorities of the State Tax Service have no relation to the implementation of State control measures in the field of economic activity, so that the creation of the proposed moratorium will not have any legal effect because of the legal inadequacy of its writing. The draft decision, prepared by the committee, is in line with the position of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and speaks of the proposal to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Please give the names of the national MPs. Andrey Pavlovski, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u87	Mrs. Queen, would you pass the word, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u88	Natalie's Royal Mike, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! As it is said, you want to put an end to this, put an unfulfilled task in front of people. You have now set an impossible task for humans under the Tax Code. As a result, the economy is falling, jobs are shrinking and unemployment is rising. And in order to put a stop to the situation and stabilize the situation, to adopt at least a few people's laws that will bring fresh air into the air, you are making this situation even more difficult today by not stretching your hand forward, not realizing the mistakes that have been made and not wanting to correct those mistakes. Here I often hear that the Committee's position has been in line with the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. What, then, could be the position that we are here for, the people's deputies, who should analyse and propose an alternative and protect the people who are being subjected to tremendous economic repression today. Therefore, respectable colleagues, think carefully. You're all going back to the county. And two thirds of this hall will go to major districts. So when you get there, few people will help you, you will have to look people in the eye and give an honest answer, what you have done and how much you have been able to protect their wages, their jobs, their prospects, the future of our Ukraine. Thus, unfortunately, what is being done now is destroying everything, so we propose to introduce a moratorium, to protect people today from the impunity that there is, to consider the bill, to refine it for the second reading as laid down, and then to return to the bill that was “cut off” yesterday in this room and banned people from working, adopted an anti-constitutional norm, and to accept the responsibility of officials. Officials must bear specific responsibility for failing to comply with the laws, enough to cover them, and we pay the price of Ukraine's economy today for corruption and for the lawlessness that it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u90	Volodymyr Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u91	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Deputies! Respectable tellers, citizens of Ukraine! Today we are considering, at this moment, a very important bill that today can determine the bright future of our Ukraine, what we promise the people today. I want to make a little statement that we have adopted the Tax Code in order to refine it in our daily lives and accept adjustments. By meeting us in our daily lives today, and the MPs who are actually working in the districts, they can support me today, they really ask us when you're protecting us from the tax authorities, from the administration? Because we have adopted the Tax Code in this Code, there are such sub-legislative points where excessive tax authorities abuse their authority. I would like to say the following, today is a very difficult economic situation in our Ukraine, and we need to keep this order in order, but we need to keep order on schedule. Today the buyers are responsible for the sellers in the fifth harvest, it's called pits, it's not right. That's why I want us to finish this law, to be thoroughly corrected so that we don't be ashamed to come to the county tomorrow, and we really won't have any reason to explain to the people who will protect them except for us. Therefore, if we today have some mistakes and cases in the bills and in the Tax Code, we need to correct them immediately, and it will be beneficial for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u92	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u93	Thank you. It's actually a sequel, the second series of the previous bill, we really see that it's kind of a rational grain that's expressed here, but as this is the question, we can't, we can't, we're a state authority, we're a higher legislature. Let's just give up on what we have in the state of Ukraine, let's give up on what we have in the state institutions, let's give up on the fact that the control authorities control the revenue coming into the state budget, and then it'll be absolutely right, and then there won't be any requirements, and there'll be no increase in pensions, and there'll be an increase in wages, and there'll be an increase in the scholarship, and then we'll have to do so. I believe that the State must perform its functions, and only by way and control, and only by other methods must the State perform its functions. If we now say that we must stop the work of all the authorities of the state, the Supreme Council of Ukraine must say that we are not doing legislative work in this direction. I think it's possible that such laws should be adopted, but you shouldn't call it a moratorium there for checks, for control, it can't be. Why, when they were in power, they didn't vote for a moratorium on rising food prices, on housing and utility tariffs. Then why did the word "moratorium" push you away and tell you that the world wouldn't understand us, because we do regulatory functions and things like that? And that's why I think it's absolutely right if the drafter of the bill is working on the bill, and then we're all going to vote together.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just communicated with the Afghans who are standing before the Supreme Council. They asked me to send a colleague of Chechtov and a colleague of Tihonov to see them. I gave them an invitation to communicate with people, including Ephraim. Excuse me, Ephraim. I've spoken to Ephraim and Chechtev. And I passed on, including those fears about the 7562 law that people demand to stop, which I spoke about here, which was about the State's guarantees of execution of decisions, where the coalition no longer meets, you've already voted on in the Justice Committee about it, not at all 17 laws are going to be implemented, because you want to destroy them, and the benefits, and everything else. So what does this have to do with this law? I'm surprised, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are now giving the floor to a representative of the committee without the Committee's conclusions. It says here that the Homutinian is in charge today. There is no hamster, another person reports. There is no solution. What does it tell us? I'm asking the regulatory committee to ask a question about non-admission, when there's no committee conclusions, they're not handed over to the deputies, so here from this rostrum to make the artistic whistle that I heard today from the honourable representative, because it's from the committee. The committee had no such opinion and had not considered the matter at all. And now, about yesterday, we turned it down. Not us, but you rejected Bill 8217-2, which annulled the prohibition of referring to the expenses of legal persons, the expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition of goods of employment and services and other non-material institutions, the material person and the entrepreneur who pays the sole tax, it was criminally done. Now we have the right bill, we have to support it in the first reading, we have to delete the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u96	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u97	One second. I ask you, look, if you rule out the word "supervisory," Mrs. Royal will probably agree with me, because the tax office is in control, not supervision, the prosecutor's office is in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u98	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is over. Why did we bring this matter up for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine without a committee decision? The point is, dear colleagues, that the bill was registered in January. Until then, first of all, the committee had and had to consider it. And secondly, on Wednesday, opposition proposals are brought to the attention of some of the other bills. But at the same time, I ask the committee to work more quickly in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law establishing a moratorium on certain measures of State oversight in the field of economic activity. [[control]] [[Registration number 8018]] Please vote. I beg you to choose your words! Please choose your words, no one will deprive you of your right to speak. [[11:38:31]] For-88 Dear colleagues, "yes" to 88. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. [[Registration number 8018]] Please vote. For further consideration, please vote. [[11:39:13]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. The Party of Regions is 4, "BUT - "Patkaščina" - 52, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 15, communists - 0, "Reforms for the Future" - 6, "The People's Party" - 0, non-fractional - 5. Honourable National MPs, two factions: the Faction "BUT"- "Fatherland" and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" require a 30-minute recess to hold consultations and make a statement. At the same time, the initiators of this appeal are ready to make a statement now, and then we will continue our work. The word is Roman Zabzaluk, the faction of "BUT is the Fatherland." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, now under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is a multi-million-dollar rally involving delegated veterans, participants in hostilities from all parts of Ukraine. I want to remind you that there are 11,000 citizens in Ukraine who are disabled in the first, second and third groups of war in the Republic of Afghanistan and 2,000 600 families of citizens who have died in Afghanistan, as well as about 386,000 participants in various conflicts. Every year and every day, that's going to get smaller. After all, the 18 - year - olds who went to war and were injured or injured by the families of those youths whose lives ended in Afghanistan’s land were doomed to life in poverty by the present system of things. Perhaps the parliamentary majority, first and foremost, of the Party of Regions, need to gain the courage to acknowledge themselves as unable to work for people and to exercise their authority, or finally to pay attention to those who need it. Therefore, I am literally quoting now the demands of the representatives of the participants in the fighting, the veterans of the local conflicts, which require Parliament to draw immediate attention to the urgent problems, namely: to address the situation that has arisen with regard to ensuring the rights and benefits of war veterans, including participants and persons with disabilities in the Republic of Afghanistan, and to bring the extent of the rights and benefits previously granted in accordance with the laws of Ukraine and the legislation of the former Soviet Union, which have been illegally repealed in the future. The other one. Cancel Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers Order No.299 of 7 April 2010 on the size of single cash assistance paid in 2010, pursuant to the Ukrainian Laws on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantee of Their Social Protection, and on Victims of Nazi Persecution, and submit to the National Budget for Ukraine 2011 the size of compensation payments to war veterans in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection. Third, according to paragraph 37 of Appendix 2 of the Supreme Council's Decrees on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2011 to ensure that, through the adoption of regulatory acts, the proper level of pension insurance for persons with disabilities and those involved in hostilities is ensured in accordance with their social status, including the increase in pensions for war invalids who have received disability as a result of injuries, injuries, disability or diseases associated with hostilities in the Republic of Afghanistan, 10 times and for families who have died to increase payment to 100 per cent of the subsistence minimum. To put an end to the criminal bill submitted by the Parliamentary majority and the government of Azarov, on the guarantees of the state for the execution of the awarding court.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u100	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u101	That the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has exclusive powers to determine the size of annual lump sums, travel arrangements and sanatorium treatments, and compensation payments to war veterans. And in accordance with article 26 of the Ukrainian Act "On State-wide Compulsory Pension Insurance" leave the retirement age unchanged, women 55 years old, men 60 years old, and the availability of insurance at least 5 years old. By the way, your honor, there, on the posters now is the phrase, "Don't make us change the cry for vending machines." Think about these phrases. I'm handing over the petitioners to the head of the Supreme Council of the Ukraine of Lithuania. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the statement just made by our colleague, I must say that the meeting took place directly with the representatives of this part of the Afghans. It's a union called "Who but we," if I'm not mistaken. We had a meeting. "Nobody but us," I apologize. We met directly in the Supreme Council. The Minister of Social Policy and Labour, the Minister of Finance, and other representatives of the central executive bodies were invited. And there was communication, and the appropriate assurances were that there were appropriate orders from the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As you know, the problem today is that those laws are not being implemented, those decisions that are now valid. At the same time, I think we should work together once again with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Let us now consider the issues that we must first include in the agenda of the day session. Let's do it this way, dear fellows. If there's any insistence on the author's part, I see, a distinguished colleague, on the part of the author, that he's based his initiative, let's do it this way. For two minutes, he's based on his initiative. And if there's a need to exchange ideas, once again, we're going to do it under a reduced procedure. Then move on to making a decision. This is going to fit the rules. Do you have a deal? Well, if you insist, we'll go like this. Dear colleagues! It is up to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of a moratorium on higher prices and tariffs for residential services. Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, please. Two minutes. And then, if there's two "yes", two "against" and we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u103	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Recently, Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic addressed Parliament with a letter. And unfortunately, one of the main issues that concerns Ukraine and the Ukrainians today as a whole, namely, price instability, has not been raised in the message, nor is it the main subject of the activity of the current Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In the last year, prices and tariffs in Ukraine have increased several times. The biggest problem is now in the residential services sector. Surprisingly, the biggest price increase is in gas and electricity. Let me explain why. I will remind you that under the current legislation of Ukraine, all the gas produced in Ukraine, some 20 billion cubic feet [20 billion cubic meters] of gas, is shipped in an orderly manner exclusively for the needs of the population. The total cost of producing 1,000 cubic feet [1,000 cu m] of such Ukrainian gas is about 200 dollars per thousand cubic feet [1,000 cu m]. I want to emphasize once again, 200 dollars, not 300 dollars. The government of Ukraine, for unknown reasons, does not understand where and on what grounds it is sending 20 billion cubic metres of gas that needs to go to the population and increases the monthly cost of gas prices for Ukrainians. The other one. A decision has been taken by the Government of Ukraine to increase electricity prices. I want to remind you that 50 percent of Ukrainian electricity is nuclear power, which has nothing to do with rising the price of Russian gas; and about 12 percent is hydropower, which is also known to not work on gas. In view of this, it is not clear why gas prices are rising and why electricity prices are rising, if gas and electricity are directly produced in Ukraine and are sufficient for the needs of the population. A decision has been made by the government to restore the pension to Ukrainian citizens for payment of housing services. Moreover, the International Monetary Fund, which successfully promotes politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u104	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u105	This year, another 30 percent increase gas prices. In view of this, the draft decree is proposed to introduce a moratorium on price increases and tariffs until they are calculated with Ukrainian citizens on wages. The debt is one and a half billion dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the exchange of information on our colleague's legislative initiative. Please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Sergey Teryohin, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland"
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u107	Please give Soboljev a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u108	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u109	Thank you. I'm going to try to answer the questions Mr. Yatsenuk asked: "Where does the gas of Ukrainian production go and who gets it?" The first person to receive it is Mr. Firtash, who receives gas from Ukrainian production in his companies, and thus 20 billion cubic metres of gas, which, according to all previous decisions, should go to the Ukrainian population, will go to his businesses. The second one where this gas is obtained is those private companies that are producing gas deposits in Ukraine and are able to supply this gas to anyone other than the population of Ukraine. So I think that this project by Mr. Yatsenuk is absolutely in keeping with the spirit of time. If we don't immediately impose a moratorium on increased municipal payments, we will continue to receive a gas price for the population that is already over $250 on average, and the first payments that have been made to industrial enterprises, except, of course, Mr. Fertash's industrial enterprises, have already reached $435.5 this month. Here's your 100-dollar discount for what's called the "harkow deal." That is why our faction supports the decision proposed by Mr. Yatsenuk, and we will vote in favour of imposing a moratorium on these tariffs for the population, because they do not meet economic calculations or the needs of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u110	Vladimir Moisik gives Oleg the right to speak, non-factional. He'll be followed by Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u111	Thank you. I want to remind you that the Supreme Council has already reviewed several of the bills on this subject, including my bill, where I also proposed to impose a moratorium on foaming, on raising housing tariffs. But most people don't vote for this bill. Why? I think that for millions of citizens who don't know what to pay for utilities, it's quite obvious why today's parliamentary majority, why the government, why the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine don't support people in the problems that hurt them. Because they are hopelessly far from these problems. Recently, the Financial Times publishes information that one of the Ukrainian oligarchs bought a penthouse in London for 130 million euros. A few days later, the oligarch was named after him. He's sitting here in the hall, our fellow MP. Penthouse for 130 million euros! And we're talking here, we're talking about thinking about saving people 100 dollars to pay for residential services? They don't even know 100 bracelets. They count millions. And we're here for 100 dollars saying that Parliament, which represents the oligarchy that serves the oligarchy, and the government, and the leadership of Parliament, and the parliamentary majority, they serve the oligarchs. Do we want them to care for the common people? These simple people, they only mention them, when these simple people need to be hung up on their ears before the elections and tell them how good they are, then they mention people. And when they don't vote yesterday for a bill that actually deprives 200,000 small entrepreneurs of their jobs, they don't mention them. Today, when it's possible to protect the workaholics who don't get paid, who don't know how to pay the utilities, what they're going to send the kid to school, they don't need these jobs today. They will remember them when the elections are held, but then it will be too late. For all those who are fooling these people today, you think that you will continue to deceive them, will not come out. The people have long known who you are and what you represent. We have to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u112	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u113	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Montenegro. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The popular games of the bourgeois factions in Parliament are ongoing. When the author of the draft decree was sitting in the chair of his head and his orange friends were in power in the central and local authorities, he didn't take similar suggestions. Now I'm going to "protect" the simple election, producing a bunch of social-direction bills. Yeah, look, they're going to ask the Company soon, even though there's no need for "protectors" in their paws. The question needs to be addressed. Communists in all the authorities, including in Parliament, have been constantly passing bills for two years to impose a moratorium on the raising of housing and utilities tariffs until debt on wages is repaid, and until prices and tariffs are consistent with wages and pensions. But the part that he's bringing today and the other part that's in power that's not supporting. The same is true of the Communist factions in local councils, in city councils, in village councils, but representatives of both the right and those who are now in power do not support them. The more communists are organizing and conducting protests against citizens, but the reactions to these protests are from the authorities, and then, and now, zero. It's a shame to the capitalists who abuse the common people on account of the constant sharp rise in housing and utilities tariffs. But the faction will vote in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u114	Dear colleagues. Please repeat, Arsenius Yatzenuk. Wait a minute! And then we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, one more question to the Ukrainian government, which is personally responsible for raising all prices and tariffs in the country. First, where are 20 billion cubic metres of Ukrainian gas to be sold to Ukrainians for 200 dollars rather than 300 dollars? Second, how much happiness does electricity prices rise by 15 percent if electricity is produced in Ukraine on its basis without Russian gas? Third, please consider this a parliamentary request, and I think that the Ukrainian Court of Auditors should find out where the Ukrainian gas has gone and where the Ukrainian electricity is going. And the last. It is very surprising that on the day of the opposition we do not invite here the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which should answer all these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Actually, there is a problem and everyone understands that there is a problem. It used to be regulated by law. You understand very well that we can take a decision, but there was a law that prohibited the price of utility tariffs. At the same time, I think in order to establish justice, I'm going to ask the secretariat to raise the materials when a motion for withdrawal was made, i.e. the repeal of this Moratorium Lifting Act, so that we can all take responsibility together for why this law doesn't work. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a decree establishing a moratorium on rising prices and tariffs for residential services. [[Registration number 8155]] [[11:57:56]] For-119 The decision is not taken. The faction? Please, by the factions. The region's party is zero, the BUTT is Parenthood 63, our Ukraine is National Self-Defense 24, the communists are 25, the Reforms for the Future is 2, the People's Party is zero, the non-factional is 5. So we'll be slaves.? Dear colleagues, we can continue for 15 minutes or take a break for up to 12 hours for 30 minutes, and then continue to consider the matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm gonna take a break, aren't I? A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 12 hours 29 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u117	Please come into the session room. We'll continue the meeting. The issue is being addressed, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 to increase the living minimum for people who have lost their jobs. Bill registration numbers 8180 and 8180-1. The first bill is Vetwicki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, this is Bill 8180, in which I propose to increase the living minimum for people who are out of work and to increase it in the following dimensions. From 1 April to 800 bracelets, instead of 764 bracelets. From 1 October to 900 bracelets, instead of 784 bracelets. And from December 1st to 1000 bracelets. To date, there has been a situation. There is a question that no Ukrainian national deputy, or Prime Minister, or members of the Government or President of Ukraine can answer. This question is how to live on 750 grevens of a minimum pension. Without an answer to the question of how to live for 750 bracelets today, we will not be able to carry out any pension reforms. I am sure that the pension reform was not supported by citizens of Ukraine, many of Ukraine's people's deputies, particularly pensioners. Three million people receive a minimum pension of 750 bracelets. The pension reform was not supported because the pension reform proposals did not say anything about how the minimum pension would be increased, how the State would learn to respect older people, pensioners who had worked 35-40 years at work or doctors or teachers, or teachers, and how we knew all such people and they had 750 bracelets just how much money they needed today to raise prices mainly for utilities and 200 bracelets for food, it was no longer about how to store how to buy medicines, how to buy drugs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u119	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u120	These are real figures, and we need nine billion grevens by the end of the year, and the budget has this kind of money, five million grevens are now the pro of our country's budget, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u121	Thank you. Next bill, 8180-1. Pavlovsky reports, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u122	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! It is proposed to amend the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. [[on the provision of social guarantees for our citizens]] The rise in basic social standards should compensate for the negative consequences of the deterioration in the lives of our citizens, which they feel every day as food prices rise, even compared to the previous year several times, on average, prices rose by 35 percent around the country. At the same time, pensions, wages, scholarships are actually frozen, so the bill is proposing to increase the living minimum, the minimum pension and the minimum wage to bring them into line with real inflation in our country, which was estimated to have accounted for 42.3 percent of independent experts last year. The proposed minimum pensions, wages will correspond to the real level of inflation. And in particular, it is proposed from April 1st to set the standard of living at a level of 458, the minimum pension, as promised by the authorities before the April 1st elections, at least from April 1st to 222, so that by the end of the year it will increase to 1st thousand, 280 and minimum wage, as promised before the election, to set to 1st thousand, 536 and to increase to the end of the year to be 1st of December, 606. I think that's exactly the size of minimum pensions and wages they're corresponding to the real level of consumer price rises at the very right price, food and prices. So please support our citizens and support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u123	Thank you. Please sign up if you want to. Please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u124	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". I'd like to give you my word, Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u125	Baby, next Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u126	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Georgievich. I would like to say that these bills, which are now being proposed to Parliament, are very important bills. Because it is about increasing the cost of living for those who have lost their jobs, simply put, as a result of the so - called reforms of today’s authorities, millions of Ukrainians have become even poorer in the last year. Millions of people do not know how to survive, how to feed their families, how to feed themselves, how to pay for community services, how to pay for their children in kindergartens, schooling, schoolwork, and so forth. As of April 1, prices for students’ hostels rose, prices rose daily in markets and shops, all of which were the result of the activities of today’s authorities, today’s government, the personal prime minister of Azarov, and the personal parliamentary majority led by the Supreme Council Head, who created conditions that were not suitable in Ukraine for Ukrainians to live. Apparently, they want the Ukrainians not to be left on our blessed land at all, there is still land left to sell, feed our people through economic genocide, through price genocide, through other forms of genocide, and thus lead some tractors here abroad to drive and enrich those oligars, a dozen latifundists who today want to plunder and have power in the country. Therefore, it is vital that this law be passed in order to increase the income of millions of Ukrainian citizens. Even for 100, for 200 dollars, you add this coin to people, and this will give them a chance to see the light at the end of the tunnel, which will give them at least a minimum chance of survival. People are good! Dear National Deputies! Get out of this room and go to the center of Kiev, along the Chrystec, see how many chrysalis on Chrystec, how many bumblebees all over the country? There's nowhere to push from. Who made these normal people dirty? The government -- you made them dirty. Here you are, carrying a moral reptilian.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u127	Yes, Shevchuk Sergei. He's handing over the Soboljevo. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u128	This bill, introduced by our parliamentary colleagues, is directly related to another bill that we considered last week. This is a bill that deals with real wage and pension indexes, aiding in the face of rising prices for goods of primary necessity. But I would like to remind you that unfortunately, this bill was not supported by the governing coalition at the time. And we actually have to go back to the bill now is the authorship of Pavlovsky. What is the point of this bill? In a situation where 15 percent of the citizens in 2.2 are only percent of the citizens who are officially unemployed, and 15 percent are the ones you won't find in the labour market, which you won't find directly as those who are paying key social contributions. So today the unemployment rate in the country is about 17.5 percent. In all of this, we have a situation where the payments that are being made are not actually indexed to a real level of inflation, because I think that 9.1 percent of the inflation that was declared by the Statekombt does not actually correspond to at least three times the actual level of consumer price rise. It is this bill that provides an opportunity to return, at least, to the state of play in early 2010. And the fact that every citizen who falls under this law loses between 200 and 300 dollars a month shows that this decision needs to be taken immediately. On what account? The bill gives a direct answer: based on the redistribution of funds received from privatization and the reduction of funds that go to the management apparatus, it is precisely the funds that will be needed to do so. That's why our faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block supports the adoption of this bill in the first reading and is willing to listen to all rational about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u129	Yes, thank you. Question completed. Please, one minute, Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u130	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Of course, there is no doubt that the Ukrainian Company will support this bill, we support similar bills constantly. And I'd like to remind those who spoke so highly here at the beginning, when you were in power, we have repeatedly passed bills aimed at these ends, but you didn't vote for them, and today you're so passionate about people. Next. It wasn't once that the representative of our faction was able to enforce in Ukraine's legislation all of this when you were hiding and the deterioration of pension insurance and so on. Therefore, stand up better and repent before the people of Ukraine, and let us not engage in the word of fornication. If supported, it is a matter of when, and when, and when, the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u131	Yes, we'll make a decision. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Bills No. 8180, 8180-1 – to amend the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. [[on increasing the living minimum for people who have lost their jobs]] Please vote. [[12:41:37]] Z-91 Not turned on. Let us consider the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u132	The factions. The Party of Regions did not vote, BUT 48, Our Ukraine 13, Communists 25, Reforms 1, People's Party 0, non-fractional-4. Let us consider the questions. Yes, please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u133	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, I have been constantly called by voters, saying that from today to the day when the agenda is formed by the opposition, they have voted in favour of the Bills passed by them, some 50-40 people. So you're saying there's already 40 people left in the faction or what? It simply needs to be announced that only 40 people remain in the FACT faction, who today support their bills. Because the voters are just in the dark, we're lying to them somehow. We say one thing, de jure like 100, and de facto 40 to 50 people vote. You don't have to lie. We can deceive each other, but we must not deceive the people. It's kind of unfair. After all, you are the chosen ones of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u134	Kirilenko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u135	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I am addressing my colleague, who has just been speaking, a colleague from the faction of the Party of the Regions. I mean, count how many of your factions are there, 27 people. So, dear friends, we made a decision a month and a half ago: everyone votes for themselves, as much as they are. Yesterday, when the principles of decision were taken, Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko analyzed the legitimacy of yesterday's Government Bills, which are extremely important, the Party of Regions was attended by 39 people in the final vote. I'd like us to pay attention to these things first of all, not how much it voted. Yes, we initiate these bills and vote just as much as there is. We can tell who is now sick, who has just been taken to the hospital in connection with events that took place on December 16 and so on and so forth. Guys, let's not touch this, because we have a lot more argument than you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u136	The issue is being addressed, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. [[on the inadmissibility of violating the rights and limiting the social guarantees of citizens when entering into international agreements]] [[Registration number 8040]] Please, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u137	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! I'd like to add to the previous one that "The Motherhood Block of July has been decided that each MP is voting for himself, and we are implementing a direct rule of the Constitution. So we want to be deputies, and everyone has the opportunity to say their word and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u138	But everyone has to go to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u139	Yeah. And about the law. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the International Contracts Act is proposed to your attention. [[on the inadmissibility of violating the rights and limiting the social guarantees of citizens when entering into international agreements]] In particular, it is proposed to introduce a new article proposing restrictions on international treaties, not allowing for the introduction and signing of such agreements, which have been happening recently, you can see that our government is signing laws, international agreements, which will then lead to an increase in the retirement age for our citizens by five years, an increase in the price of gas and municipal tariffs, other issues that narrow down the social rights of our citizens. It is precisely proposed in this bill to add to this law that the unacceptable conditions of the international agreement are the obligations for Ukraine to increase the retirement age, to limit the increase of the State-sector wage fund, to limit the scope of social guarantees, social benefits provided by valid legislation, and to impose obligations on higher prices and tariffs for housing and utilities, public transport services, food and emergency products. Because all of these issues are solely questions of our internal Ukrainian policy and no state, no international financial organization has the right to impose on us what prices or tariffs will be on gas or electricity. It's strictly our right in the middle of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u140	Please sit down. Please bet in 2 minutes. Instead of talking about how you work, report on the bill and be on time. Sign up. Yes, please, Kravchuk. After him, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u141	I give Paul the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u142	Please, the Pavlovsky microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u143	Thank you. So, my esteemed colleagues, from my previous speech, clearly, if we really want to pursue our own internal policy on social issues, social guarantees, I think if we're patriots in this room, we should support the bill. Moreover, there is a positive conclusion from the International Affairs Committee. And I think we should do it. And I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that in recent times there have been more frequent cases where, at the highest level of government, bills are being signed. Like the same Harkow Agreements, other contracts that were supposed to improve the situation and actually make it worse and narrow down the social rights of our citizens. And please give me a minute to the leader of the Ivan Kirilenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u144	It's not passed away, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u145	Well, then I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u146	Go ahead, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u147	Thank you. Now, you see, the words, the opposition, they won't say.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u148	We don't tighten, we don't tighten, it's the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u149	Thank you. Therefore, honourable colleagues, given that the Kharkiv Agreements have in fact put Crimea and Sevastopol in the administration of a foreign state. By the way, when Julia Timoshenko was charged with these gas agreements, she did not give anyone an inch of Ukrainian land. And then the internal gas was going for the population. If you remember, in 2008-2009, the population gas in Ukraine did not rise for ordinary people, the consumer gas for the population. So once again, I want to say that we need to support this bill so that we can be on our own and make decisions about our own internal, primarily social, policies and that the issue of social rights is not an issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u150	Popsicle, please. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u151	The faction of the Party of the Regions. The idea, as always, is good, but if you approach the problem professionally, this bill does not fully comply with the Constitution and the relevant laws of Ukraine, in order to conclude Ukraine's international treaties. Article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine: "The powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are only to grant the statutory terms of consent to the obligations of Ukraine's international treaties and the denunciation of Ukraine's international treaties." As far as international agreements are concerned, these powers form part of the competence of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the relevant central executive authorities. On the basis of the foregoing, it is necessary to note that an attempt to establish, at the legislative level, the content of Ukraine’s international treaties, which are made up of the relevant executive bodies, may be regarded as interference in the sphere of executive competence, which is not fully in line with the principle of the division of power enshrined in article 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, the Party of Regions will not support this bill. With regard to the issue of non-admission of the scope and forms of existing rights and freedoms, we have paragraph 3 of article 22 of the Constitution. And the 9th article of the Constitution clearly indicates that the conclusion of international agreements should take place only on the basis of the Constitution. So the legal basis for not allowing the existing rights and freedoms of citizens to be narrowed when international agreements are concluded is there. And what Mr. Pavlovsky proposed was not the subject of such documents as international treaties. A party of regions won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u152	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u153	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the people’s deputies Pavlovsky and Sochka have done the right thing. I thank them for such a bill, because even an inexorable analysis by professionals from the Foreign Affairs Committee, as evidenced by the signature of an experienced diplomat at the conclusion of the Belarus Committee, speaks of it. That no violations of the valid Constitution, the International Contracts Act or the Rules were allowed, and the committee recommends that the draft be adopted in the first reading. [[there's a signature here.]] The reporter here offered to identify Billorus Oleg Grigorovich. Therefore, the honourable national MPs proposed in the bill? Very little. It is proposed that the International Contracts Act be supplemented by a new article 3 p.m. The content is: "Limitation of international agreements." That's the limit on that empty bed. Adam Ivanovich, is there a government in this country or not? I understand that Azarov is studying how to make parking in China. He's already learned how to buy Greek in China, all of it. We'll give it to the Chinese, have them take the shoe and go home. But not putting any government official in a bed is clearly disrespectful to you, most of you. Adam Ivanovich, if I were sitting right here in your seat, they'd be sitting right here with each other. You understand, everyone else would not have been considered by the law. So, Adam Ivanovich, this is disrespect, first of all, for you, not for the opposition. In opposition to this power today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u154	Thank you. Well, it's a good thing you're not in my shoes, because you'd overload everyone. That's the first one. And the others. I see absolutely no justice in those who demand that the government be present. On what basis, and why should the government be here, please tell me? On Friday, yes, another matter. Why today? Because Yuri Carmazin or someone wants to see them? You'll see it on TV. Yes, please, 1 minute, Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u155	Dear Adam Ivanovich! First. I'm making a point about the regulatory procedure. The deputy who spoke before this signed up for "against" instead of "against". You should have taken him out of words right away. But it's bullshit. All the time, and you're going to do it. Don't break the rules. Item two. As for the fact that our committee and the head of the committee were mentioned here. I'm sad that this was the first political-motivated decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in my mind. Third. Remember, indeed, the graduate diplomat of Belarus, that he actually abstained in voting for the project. Third. The bill is strange for one reason, because all the rules proposed to prohibit inclusion were never the norm of international law throughout the history of international law. And what the author mentions was really just the text of a memorandum, which is a unilateral commitment, not an international treaty, and it was signed by the previous Prime Minister. That's why it's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u156	Yeah, that's right. Question completed. You don't have a replica? Oh, no, there's no replica, because they say you did the wrong thing. Yes, no, the case of the chairman, including, excuse me, Yuri Anatolyovich. You signed up for "against," and you stood up for it. This is where Chernobyl is right. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts of Ukraine. [[on the inadmissibility of violating the rights and limiting the social guarantees of citizens when entering into international agreements]] [[Registration number 8040]] Please vote. [[12:55:57]] For-97 Not turned on. We are considering a draft application to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation in connection with the situation around Ukrainian public institutions in Russia. [[Registration number 8021]] The author of the bill is School. You have factions on the board, you can see. All right, the next one will.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u157	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues are national MPs, distinguished viewers and radio listeners, respected citizens of Ukraine! I will remind you of the preamble of why this bill came into existence. I proposed long enough, two months ago, to accept the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation in connection with the situation around the Ukrainian public institutions in Russia. What's that supposed to mean? In Russia there were only two, apparently, all - Russian social organizations that united Ukrainians in Russia. And they're both at a very successful time for the development of Russian-Ukrainian relations, when current President Janukovic, Prime Minister of Azarov, was in power, and most of them in Parliament were created, both of which were successfully eliminated. Only one of the public organizations stopped being eliminated, only because it was accused by the very public organization in the relevant court. It was also notable what happened. I don't see any reason why we're talking to the Federal Assembly, because the only advocates of the decisions of the courts and the Russian Federation, and in general was our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our Embassy in Russia, who claimed that the Ukrainians were only doing what they were doing in violation of the laws of the Russian Federation, and they were dishonest, dishonest, worthless, so we need to ban them and create a new, there, a nice other organization. Unfortunately, this is a fact. That's why the application. Of course, I'm sure most people won't vote for it, and I'm not going to count on it, but I appeal to the citizens. The application is completely tolerant, of course. We ask that Russia’s higher legislative body intervene in the existing problem and be approached by Ukraine’s higher legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u158	Yes, are there willing to discuss? Sign up. Yes, Mr. Cranwell, please. Kirilenko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u159	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow members of the national MPs, the MPs of the Reforms for the Future, on this issue, determined that it was not of a normative nature, so they decided that each member of the group could vote according to their perception of the political situation. On the other hand, I would like to highlight the features of the document itself, because the situation in Russia is well known to all. The document was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and we all stressed that it was prepared in a very peaceful form of tolerance, in a form that could otherwise be supported by any faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, either from the majority or from the minority. Regrettably, there are situations that are very often cautioned by the cold, somewhere to mention the unnecessary times of the Russian Federation and the actions that unfortunately do not work properly there. I think it would be very fair for us to support today's statement, which I say again, is correct, does not have a peremptory character. It's just an appeal to Russia's higher legislator, to see that they have some injustice in their midst with Ukrainian citizens, Russian citizens doing some injustice. I think that this statement and this position is very good in the position that has recently been expressed by President Dmitr Medvedev of Russia, who has now expressed his approval for projects from a number of rights-based structures on destalinization, about the need to take European principles into account in internal and external policy. In these circumstances, I'm afraid that's not going to work today, but that would be a very good argument for all of us to support this, once again, politically correct decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u160	John Kirilenko will pass it on to Yavorovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u161	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland. Dear voters, of course, the episode that took place in Russia, in a neighboring country with our ethnic relatives. It's a unique case. Of course, it's unique. I don’t think anyone would dare call it something soft, as it were, a word. Because the destruction is actually two forms of Ukrainians that are. We have, by the way, in Ukraine the darkness of Russian unifications that you want. And so they're going to, and recently they're coming together, and they're asking Yanukovich not even to turn his head back to Europe, because it's the enemy of the whole world, and they're asking us to recognize the Church of Moscow's Patriarchate as essential, and the rest of them don't need anyone at all. I've just given this as an example of how the Russians, friends, are acting, like the nation of our Russians. But as an extreme: hawks are political, religious, as they act here, no one even criticizes them. How do Ukrainians in Russia behave? Quietly the grass, absolutely. And this disunity of two associations, libraries, of course, is a very unfriendly act. But it's a dot. What I did with the document that Andrew School prepared, I honestly thought that when I first read it, I thought it would be a lot sharper. Here Andrew ascended to an absolute diplomatic height. Truly, diplomatic. The document is very soft, the document is very tolerant. Even Boris Ivanovich would probably have signed it as an outstanding Ukrainian diplomat. Because of this, it would certainly be wise for this design of the decree to go to the baths of the Supreme Council for a very long time. It would have to be removed and accepted a long time ago. Because I think it'll be fair to give that signal today anyway. Julia Timoshenko's block will support and vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u162	Yuri Carmazin. Behind him is Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I object to the fact that there is no emphasis in this statement on the principle of reciprocity that exists between States. I'm definitely against the fact that we're not paying attention to colleagues from the Russian Federation, because they probably don't know that we have an investigation in the school program, and when it's finished, we'll be informed, that's what Foreign Minister Grishenko was talking about. So if we want to create something with our money, let's, let's suggest, nevertheless, Prosvita has enough money, create and support you. With regard to the alleged elimination of public institutions, you know, I went to Moscow and met with representatives of Ukrainian organizations. Thus, representatives of 12 Ukrainian organizations registered in the Russian Federation were physically excluded from the establishment of the so-called Ukrainian Congress when the organization was registered. In this regard, there has been a public appeal to the Ukrainian Parliament to stay out of these matters and not to involve them in politics, because they represent the Ukrainian State in reality and are actually protecting the interests of the Ukrainian community. Some organizations that do not want to work under the law of the Russian Federation were eliminated because they did not comply with the laws. I was in the Ministry of Justice and they told us very simply: you are an organization, ready to work within the law, we will all support. And our approach, it violates essentially, we are trying to prevent the implementation of the laws of the neighbouring State. Therefore, such a project is purely political; let us work for our citizens, our organizations, in accordance with the laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u164	I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the day project of the application to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation in connection with the situation around the Ukrainian public institutions in Russia. [[Registration number 8021]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:08:04]] For-94 The factions. The Party of Regions did not vote, "BUT" 59, "Our Ukraine" 24, the Communists did not vote, "Reforms"-9, the People's Party 0, non-fractional-2. We are considering the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on the Single Principles for the Retirement of Citizens and Fellowships for Workers of Culture, Education, Health, Social Security and some other categories of persons. [[Registration number 8145]] The author of the bill is Pavelovský Andry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u165	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" - "The Fatherland." Respectable compatriots! Now in our country, the issue of pension insurance is affecting almost 30 bills in one way or another. My bill seeks to create conditions for the harmonization of pension legislation and to establish the only principles of pension insurance. And so it is suggested that all citizens should receive a pension according to the only principles in the state, according to the only rule, that pensions should be calculated in a single formula. I mean, roughly, there must be one pension law for everyone, not as it is now, that separate for prosecutors, separate for judges, separate for MPs, firemen and so on. When a pension is defined according to these only principles and calculated for all in one formula, then there will be no distortions that are now, and the injustice, the social injustice that is now in our functioning solidarity system. When almost half of all pensioners, which is 7 million, receive a minimum pension of 764, and there are several thousand highly privileged pensioners who have high pensions of 10,000 dollars and more. Therefore, all will receive a pension under this formula based on the Law on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance. People who have special merit in front of our state will receive additional benefits, not from the Pension Fund, which is uncharacteristic to them, but directly from the budget in the form of government scholarships, or otherwise, that can be called if they don't like it. But their merits are before the state, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u166	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u167	For example, a multi-year service in the public service will be considered as a separate supplement. They will not lose anything by money, but they will be the only just system for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u168	Yeah, we'll log in if they're desirable. Wooden Lace gives the word. Matvienko Anatolia prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u169	Thank you. I want to express my position not only my own, but Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko asked me, taking the opportunity, to report and everyone here who is going to vote in favour of this bill, I mean. We represent the interests of millions of Ukrainian pensioners who are now begging for 800 dollars of pension. And in this room there are people who get 20, 30,000 dollars of pension, and outside this room. Take Prime Minister Azarov. A few tens of thousands of dollars of pension, a few tens of thousands of dollars of wages, full government maintenance, does not pay for utilities, because they live in a state house. And then we're wondering why the government doesn't care about housing tariffs. Because the Prime Minister doesn't know, by the way, like the head of parliament, they don't know what it's like to pay for utilities, because they never held the payments in their hands, unless maybe when they were students. And today, these people who get tens of thousands of dollars of pensions, we want them to vote for the law that makes them equal in pension rights with millions of other Ukrainian citizens and with those to whom they go before the elections and tell how they care about them. It's pretty obvious that they're not going to vote for this bill today because they don't want Ukrainian pensioners to have at least some of the housing opportunities that the current privileged pensioners have. Therefore, with the opportunity, let them not vote, although a week before Easter they could also make a celebration great for Ukrainian pensioners and vote in favour of the law. But with the opportunity, I am addressing Prime Minister Azarov, all pensioners in power, obviously President Yanukovic, who is also 60 years old. Ladies and gentlemen, give up your multi-million-dollar pensions voluntarily until the law is changed until normal people get a decent pension, and you don't get one. Because you have a salary for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u170	Anatoly Matthewnko gives Kirilenko Viacheslav. Please. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u171	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, honourable voters, we will not order in pension insurance until the old principles of pension accounting are applied and the principle of pension inequality is maintained. Of course, this is primarily the case with special benefits and special benefits for officials above all else. So when the government was now introducing a pension reform project, it was doing the wrong thing in advance because it didn't start with the power reform, it didn't start with that reform. All the effort is being put on the shoulders of simple, regular pensioners, and it is only to improve, increase, and deepen. The false practice of such a retirement approach and such pension legislation have exhausted itself. So we have to start reform with the special benefits cancel out. And for culture, education, and health care, high pensions are to be provided, as well as the use of professional funds that provide a stable and high pension allowance. Because when we say special pensions, we have to understand more than anything, special pensions -- for the authorities, for the prosecutors, for the judges, for other people who have the opportunity to make this pension through the laws. The teacher, the doctor, the health care provider, he's the budget guy, and he's taking what he's got in parliament. But if there is no goodwill here, this pension will be endlessly low and all the time, as it is now. Now the minimum subsistence minimum, which means the minimum pension, is 764 bracelets from April 1. What can a pensioner in Kiev, in Donetsk, in Lviv, in Yenakiew, in Lugansk buy for 764 bracelets at places? Nothing. The minimum wage by the end of the year will be as much as 1004 bracelets. And that means that the person who works can't get anything for this salary. Therefore, the government needs to make appropriate proposals. And for this bill, I am grateful to the MP of Pavlovsk, and we will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u172	Mikhailo Chechetov. Behind him, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u173	You know, I want to support Vejacheslav Kirilenka in the part that he needs to thank the Minister of Social Policy of the Shadow, there, or the opposition Government for fully identifying his position in today's position with the position of the President in pension law. It's like a ring, one at a time. One at a time. This honors the author of the bill and Vejacheslav Kirilenko, his supporter. You know that the President has returned the pension bill, the pension legislation of which Mr. Tigipco was the author, in which, by substantiating the same arguments that he repeated in one place as through the copier, the Minister of the Opposition Government of BUT, that the people do not understand this pension legislation. In two parts, I don't understand. The fact that a small pension is one claim, and the other that is not fair, the people have not seen justice. And here the author, like the President, by repeating the President, says that people must see justice in every letter of the law. Justice, I repeat. Even a minimum pension does not irritate people as much as injustice. That's why I think we're on the right track. And the President took it forward, he felt that the Minister of Social Policy of the opposition Government would enact such a law, he put it ahead of him, and the Minister of Social Policy of the opposition Government and Vejacheslav Kirilenko supported it. I think that the new pension law, which, at the initiative of the President, is being radically reformulated, will be understood by people, particularly in the area of social justice. Another bill is a session hall, I don't think it's gonna support it, and the president just won't sign it. Thank you to the author, but I don't think this bill should be adopted, because it will be reflected in the general legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u174	Cibenko Peter, Communist faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u175	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. My dear colleagues, I have, in this regard, the intention of this drafter of the bill, this bill, such reasoning. Indeed, there are so many questions about Ukraine’s pension system. And more than that, I want to say that on all the questions that have been and remain in the drafts of the bill to the Soviet state system, they would have to admit today that the Soviet pension system was a hundredfold more just today because there was a coefficient of 4. Where the maximum pension couldn't be more than four times the minimum. And so I'd like to say that there's a lot of work going on in improving Ukraine's pension system today. But most of all, what I took the word for today is the following. Today, several representatives of the opposition were speaking. You know, I want to say that they haven't caught up with the chair since they were in power for five years. They were sitting in the Cabinet of Ministers, they were sitting in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, they were sitting in the Pension Fund, they've been quiet for five years. Today, the bills that were being written at the time, the dust from which they flunked, are being submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration today in order to contend with this extremely painful problem. I want to say this on behalf of the faction. For social projects, the faction of the Company of Ukraine has always voted and voted in favour of improving pensions. But she does it all the time, not as she does today -- while in power, doing one thing, and when they're out.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u176	Chernobyl, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u177	Taras Crnowil, group, MP group, Reforms for the Future. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We studied the bill seriously enough, not just the name, but the internal text itself. I have to say that the idea set by the author is generally supported by us. The idea is right and absolutely correct: bringing everyone into a single pension scheme, the rest at the level of scholarships that are actually considered special merit. And it's very clear and well worded. The only thing that, first of all, this bill, if only it was considered a declaration, is beautiful. When we think of it as a bill, what is it? Now, I'm giving you directions, and you take the flag into your hands and you're going to dig or shovel and you're going to make a bill that's consistent with pension reform. It's a little off-limits. We believe that in this case, in adhering to the idea itself, it needs to be worked out seriously: first, in the real development of pension laws. And secondly, where does this bill normally reflect all the principles of the second, third level accumulation and so on, the system? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u178	Yes, one minute, a reply, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u179	Thank you, fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I would like to point out that this law, if you like, is an alternative legislative initiative of the Fatherland faction in relation to the government's pension reform bill, which, by the way, was signed for justice, not by Tihypco, but by Mr. Azarov himself. And that's why I support the idea that if we call for justice in terms of, say, higher pensions, then government officials, high-ranking workers who are already pensioners, and the same Azarov, for example, should show an example of himself, personally giving up his big pension, which is almost equal to his big salary. And this law, it's the first step to create, if you want, such a first brick in the Pension Code. There should be a pension code, not separate 30 laws for each profession. We have to do something about it. Let's take the first step.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u180	Kirilenko. I won't give Chechtev another word. Please, Kirilenko. Kirilenko Viacheslav
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u181	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Well, I understand that the authorities and the governing coalition have no intention of seriously considering it, so any matter is going down on the brakes, which I think is a complete failure in joking, because these jokes are interfering with outright cynicism. Well, look, you're saying that there's not enough money in the pension budget that you can't pay the teachers to pay them the one tariff grid, they're going out and they're going to strike under the Cabin of Azar. You promised them a bonus, but you didn't take the bonus, you don't make any budget changes, you don't have any suggestions, but here we hear four plenary days of jokes from one of the deputies. But, frankly, many people in the country have been given an ostrich. I think these pranks of flowers in power chairs kill very intensely every day. So I think we need to adopt laws, not make jokes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u182	I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on the Single Principles for the Retirement of Citizens and Fellowships for Cultural, Educational, Health, Social Security and some other categories of persons. [[Registration number 8145]] Please vote. [[13:24:49]] For 219 [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you to shout louder so that after I put on the reverse side that you didn't have a scream. Do you understand? I'm acting on the Rules. You have the right, but if you don't want it to be then, you don't have to yell. Who's in charge of getting back to the vote, please make up your mind. [[13:25:34]] For 171 They're not back online. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8086]] [[on the imposition of responsibility for the violation of the order of personal voting by the Ukrainian People's Deputies]] The author of the bill is Arsenius Yatsenuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u183	Good afternoon, dear fellows, once again. We've forgotten that there were large battalions here in this parliamentary room because it's not a parliament, that we're not an MP, and it's not us, it's the part of the room that doesn't come today that doesn't vote, it's using someone else's card, and we've turned Parliament into a casino. Dear colleagues, the National MP's card is not a credit card. You confuse it, you don't give credit to anyone. It was forgotten that several decrees had been made in Parliament, which provided for the personal vote of the Ukrainian national deputy. I checked the log-in data. And so, the difference between registration by electronic form and registration by written form, on the average, 100 to 200 deputies. For example, at last night’s meeting of 239 members of parliament registered in writing, there were actually 364 deputies in the hall. In that case, if Parliament continues to ignore the basic constitutional norm, namely article 84 of the Constitution, which provides for the individual vote of the MP, Parliament should in principle be closed. Here we're saving a billion dollars, the billion that the majority of us have spent on Parliament, the billion that can be sent to the underprivileged pension reform you're proposing. The bill provides for the introduction of criminal responsibility for the use of a foreign card. At least in Poland when Sejm’s deputy used a foreign card, he was put in prison. We're of course not Poland, but in this direction we don't just have to move, and this is a direct constitutional norm. Therefore, the bill provides: firstly, to amend the Rules prohibiting the use of one card by another member, each vote for himself; secondly, the bill provides for the imposition of criminal responsibility on that member.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u184	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u185	who is involved in political activity, and one vote in six. Responsibility is up to five years in prison, or more specifically, incarcerated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u186	Parliament will then have to be closed. Who wants to share in the discussion? Let's sign up. Calchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u187	Please pass the word to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, the fact that our colleague Arsenius Yatsenuk raised the question, I want to continue and say that after we did a half-step: both the Ukrainian people and journalists are showing how to work as deputies and how they work for written registration -- well, there is already a question of the illegality of most of the bills that have been adopted. So I, like the reporter, analyzed our meeting last night. So, according to written registration -- and as the book says -- the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy must be registered in writing, 239. Yesterday after lunch, we passed a series of drafts. For example, they reworded the Russian Federation’s Law on the City of Military Glory. So in 2006, this law was passed in Russia, and now we've translated it into Ukrainian -- and yesterday the majority voted. If we subtract 59 from the 239, and 35 from “Our Ukraine, ” who did not vote, we have 145 deputies. Friends, no drafts were adopted yesterday after lunch either in the first reading or in general. So I think we should take the next step: we need to legalize and understand the logic of the MP's personal responsibility for what he's doing. I really agree with this subject that Parliament should not work at all if we stopped at half a step. We're journalists and we're showing people that we have 200 or 230 deputies here, and we vote 400. So we make ourselves laugh by showing written registration, and we vote like a piano, I mean most. That is why I believe that we, the Rules Committee, should immediately consider a bill which. Three bills: Lithuania, Sasa, Yatsenuka, determine the basic one to vote and return parliament to Ukraine, where the MP is responsible for himself, not the corporal, or the centurion is responsible for ten deputies. I also believe that there will be no harm in criminal responsibility. So I support this bill and I think we should vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u189	Kirilenko tells Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u190	Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, "Our Ukraine is National Self-Defense". Thank you, Mr. Kirilenka, for the opportunity to speak. I want to contact my colleagues from this rostrum. We actually joked very often and joked in the past government and in the past government, so-called populism. Thinking about what's worse is better. I personally condemn this kind of policy, I think we have to be responsible, and when we throw away the reproach that we make some populist laws, we think that that's how we shake the power. Unfortunately, we are rocking Ukraine and the parliamentary responsibility must be different. But with regard to this Yatsenuk bill, I would like us to support it, because there is no population here, there is a direct responsibility and responsibility with you, there is a Constitution. I'm not the first call in this House, but we see how Parliament is destabilizing. And to a large extent, it is because it is in this way that the organization of our work today has become a practice. It's not constitutional, it's irresponsible, and if we think about giving a message, we want to force everyone to work in this country for Ukraine. Well, Parliament can't be such an example in this way. It seems to me that aside from unconstitutionality, look, we just started talking about how the visit to parliament increased. Now we're retreating back and back to being the units in this Parliament. And at the end of the day, maybe last, we're facing elections, the 2012 elections are now going to form lists, we want not to have just the oligarchs coming in there, so that people who want just preferences don't just want to come in there, that's their intrusiveness. That's where the elite of a nation that can shape laws, the rules that you and I live by. And when we adopt this law, we will support Mr. Yatsenuk, obviously, then the parliament will be more qualitative. We have to work now and for the future. So I'm talking to everyone who thinks of supporting this proposal, putting it in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u191	Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u192	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We must not stifle the work of the deputy and separate it from the general work. There's a teacher, a doctor, a metalsmith, a miner, a peasant, a MP. If four people are doing some construction work, two of them are smoking, and the job is done, and everyone is paid equally. Then only those who work for someone can make claims. We worked for you. We paid for you. Therefore, in this situation, we can only file claims with you if we vote for someone. We hit a button for someone, and it's not in the hall. Please, let's file a claim, we're with you. But with regard to deception, I want to say the following. Deception when the MP's position is distorted. Wasn't he a deputy today? Let's say it was, if it were, it wouldn't have changed, the result would have been the same. And if there is no MP and someone has voted, distorted the opposition, please, the statement to Adam Ivanovich, that voice will be removed. Therefore, there is no deception for humans. And claims can only be made by us for who we voted for. You don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u193	Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a very serious problem. So there's two lines. First. Mikolo Volodymyrovich, yesterday's hall and most of them, as you said, did not vote in favour of the City of Military Glory Act. Look, it's the result of the vote. You said you voted the majority. It wasn't like that. First. And second moment. An example was given with Poland. I think it's a good example. But only half the problem. Because there is another rule in Poland. Do you know what it's like? If an MP participates personally during the day less than a third of the votes, it is thought that the day did not work. Think about it, I think it might be an integral part. Why? Because we have MPs coming in, speaking to cameras, wherever they are, it's their business, but the real vote is less than 30 percent. I think we need to see that MPs work full-time, every deputy like me, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u195	Question completed. What's the line? The point is, if they call the name negative and so on, and they call it the Yatzenuka Bill, what could be the replica? What, are you refusing the bill? I repeat, according to the Rules when your last name is mentioned. when the author's name is mentioned? I am voting on the day-to-day issue of the draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the imposition of responsibility for the violation of the order of personal voting by the Ukrainian People's Deputies]] Registration number 8086. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:37:10]] For-79 Not supported. The factions. The Party of Regions is 0, BUT 52, Our Ukraine is 20, the Communists have not voted, the Reforms is 3, the People's Party has not voted, the non-fractional is 4. We are considering the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the cessation of abuse of rights by the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio]] 8136, author of the Yatsenuk bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u196	In view of the previous vote and the previous speech, I will make a rational proposal to the majority: you have one button in the office of the President of Ukraine, there is 300 right now, and then you don't have to sit here, and you don't have to go to work at all. That's the first one. The other one. As far as every law passed in Parliament is concerned, each law is not constitutional, and not every law can, but must be brought before the Constitutional Court, and that is what will happen. Now, about this law that you're about to fail again. In due time, after the new authorities arrived in Ukraine, this was the first part of the television and radio divide. The distribution of this market is primarily through the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio. It turns out that this great organ can at any time, for any reason or reason, in that case, if it's shown wrongly to the President, whether it's the Prime Minister or it's the other ministers, take away the license from any television channel, take away the right to speak at any radio station, which is exactly what happened. The first major steps in improving the freedom of speech of this dominant majority have been the selection of licenses in two channels, the 5 Channel and the TV Channel. The bill is foreordained. First, the need to return the licenses to these two channels. Second, this bill foresees the inability to get a license as such, a channel without a license is worth nothing, it has a room, it has a technique, it has one or more operators, but if you take a license it has nothing. This bill is designed to ensure that Ukraine does not fall short of its freedom of speech rating, but that the media show, not a version of the truth, but the real truth. That's why I'm asking you to uphold this law, return channel licenses, limit power in influencing the National Council and really establish freedom of speech in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u197	Shall we discuss it? Let's sign up. Pudov, Ariev is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u198	Please give the floor to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u199	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u200	Thank you. I wanted to thank Oleg Zarubinski. He actually made it clear that when I spoke about yesterday's vote, I gave an example of most of the bills that were passed, in particular 233 -- this is a bill to evaluate the participation of Ukraine and other states during the Great National War, which is likewise not legitimate, because it was voted in favour of 145 registered deputies. Now, regarding the situation in media space and the National Council. Dear colleagues, I am sad to say that we have never listened to the report of the National Council on Television and Radio. I would have demanded, regardless of what government I was, that we listen to the report of the National Council every year, as the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine have written. To me, it is a wonder why MPs refuse to perform their duties and to test how the previous Nakradah composition of the Nakradah is fulfilling its obligations? I have to say that today virtually all the television companies in the absolute majority have gone beyond existing legislation, have gone beyond existing legislation. They are acting on their own judgment, and the owner told them that Ukrainian journalists are dark and uneducated, so scandalous from Russia must come. These scandals come from Russia and teach Ukrainians how to live. So it says there's 70 percent or 50 percent of Ukrainian -- no one does. What's the point of doing that if the assistants of the owners of the television company are members of the National Broadcasting Board. How will the helpers act against the owners of television companies? So I'm absolutely convinced that we have to start, first of all, from what's written in the law -- we have to listen to Nacrada's report every year. Our committee made an offer to hear the Nacrada report. We should ask ourselves what is going on in the Ukrainian media area, or is our four - year - old fulfilling his or her obligations? Change this four. At least the Supreme Council doesn't interfere with the Presidential part. Because today there's a situation where media space is a media space, a component of the "Russian world" in the information sense, not the Ukrainian state. The bill should therefore be supported and the National Council's report required.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u201	Ariev. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, in fact, to see what the National Council on Television and Radio is doing today has been doing for a long time. And this issue had to be divided into two parts: the first, the regulatory function of the National Council, which issues licenses or takes them, and the second, the supervisory function of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting, which monitors how the licensing conditions are met by the channels that these licenses have already obtained. So today, licenses are taken away from channels that are not acceptable to today’s authorities because they do not always support its point of view, and they have the courage to provide their site for the performance of opposition leaders. And then all of a sudden, we're showing that the licenses are being taken, or now the licenses that are ending will be taken, and given to those television or radio structures that are very close, surprisingly, to today's power. It's time to stop. And the second, very important aspect. Today, we see that smart programs, children’s programs, educational programs have become a very rare guest on Ukrainian television, just as Ukrainian television programs have become a rare guest. And the National Council, by the way, neither the previous nor the present, is actually doing nothing. Today's television set is shot with yellowish, black programs, actually lower belt humor. We don't see publicist programs, children's programs, educational programs, historical programs, not "yellow." And so today, the Supreme Council needs to be clearly required of the National Council for Television and Broadcasting to comply with licenses that contain clear quotas, which programs, including commercial channels.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u203	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u204	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, of course, after the author came out here, "exhaled a bucket of dirt", "a bucket of dirt," as they say, on the majority. How many? It is neither small nor large — 315 people who voted in favour of the Constitution. That's what Parliament is all about. Then it's clear to the President, to the power, and then to expect the bill to be supported. I want to say frankly, we have discussed, and we were ready to support this bill, because we are in favour of the fourth independent branch of power to be free of speech. Although there are many questions on this board, as she only sees Kiev, she sees no regions and so on. There are many questions. But I repeat: we have always stood by and stand in defense of freedom of speech. And today's bill we were ready to support. But after such a preamble, when 315 members of the majority of parliament were thrown into the hands of the distinguished author, when the President and the other authorities were illegally accused, well, we have no more support. We have both supported freedom of speech and will always support freedom of speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u205	I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the cessation of abuse of rights by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. [[Registration number 8136]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:46:58]] Z-70. Not supported. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance on Increase, on the other hand. Excuse me, release of pensioners and disabled persons from payment of a single contribution. [[Registration number 8287]] The bill's author is Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u206	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to free retirees and persons with disabilities today from the payment of a single social contribution. Since 1 January, everyone has heard of a new tax. And the tax is beautifully called "the only social contribution". And it was introduced to simplify the tax system, to create conditions for a more comfortable filling of the Pension Fund and to increase pensions for our pensioners. But what have we seen over the next three months? The system has become even more confusing and complex, pensions have not been raised for anyone, and all those pensioners and persons with disabilities who have earned an honest pension who receive and are unable to survive this poverty-stricken coping pension today because, unfortunately, today even a minimum pension is not in line with the minimum standard of living. It is the only European country in which people are sent to poverty at the legislative level. People who understand that they are going to die of hunger or need to create conditions for survival, organize small businesses, take a business initiative, be able to make a product by hand, and then sell it, and today they have been paid a single social contribution. Think about it, a pensioner who receives 800 pension bracelets while taking an entrepreneurial initiative must pay a single tax and pay a single social contribution in addition. If he was unable to do anything this month, he would give all the pension he would receive back to the State. There is no such mockery in any country of the world. We therefore propose that pensioners and persons with disabilities be freed from a single social contribution. To the people who are now at the brink of human survival, please leave them alone. Let the people have the chance to make a penny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u207	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I'm done, I'm done. Have a seat, please. We're not going to make it, and the rest of us need to look at the bills. Yes, shall we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u208	Sign up. We'll take them away from the pensioners. Who's gonna pay them? Yes, Chernobyl. After him, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! The MP's “Reforms for the Future” discussed the bill carefully. And we've come to the conclusion that, despite a certain degree of unscrupulousness, the desire to implement political declarations to some extent is absolutely logical. People, pensioners who have already paid contributions to the Pension Fund, who have earned a pension under the solidarity system, now, to this day, by exercising their right to an entrepreneurial initiative to work in small businesses, have the right to be released and placed on social pay. Because they have already fulfilled those obligations before the State. It makes sense. We don't think the bill is populist. And so our group is convinced that it should be included in the agenda, seriously considered. There's an opportunity to correct the rustling that is, to bring it back to normal. So we're going to vote for inclusion in the agenda. And if it were included, we're ready to work very seriously on this bill. And as for the individual statements from the rostrum, I think it's probably the fault of all of us. Because we have very often taken legislative initiatives against the opposition. And she often acts too marginally. Even today, the reporter for a serious, good legislative initiative has been more eloquent and has prevented many from voting for a good initiative. So I have a request for most of them to listen more carefully to wise, good suggestions that come from opposition. And to the opposition, do not resort to populism and general phrases when a normal bill can be presented. And probably the last one. For those who do not want to report in the national language of the Supreme Council, at least go back to the literary Russian if you want to speak. There's a lot of noise here. It's not a word like that, it's a jargon of bandits. Say "admission," "proscion" in Russian, at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u210	He's handing it over to Alexandrovsky. It will be followed by Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u211	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues! Let us remember why a single tax had been introduced and why a simplified tax system had been introduced. Unemployment, a very large number of Ukrainian citizens, and especially those who reach the pre-retirement age or even more retirement age, are primarily deprived of their jobs when the so-called reform of our system has been going on for 20 years and the result has been the total destruction of Ukraine's industrialism. This is how people who have reached retirement age, received a miserable pension, earned their pension, and today they are forced to work, and many of them have gone to work on a simplified system or singles. Here came many former associates of mine, voters, women who had reached the age of 55-56, who were forced to work: they were trading a secondhand, they were trading some basic stuff. And now they're saying, if I've been working before, and I've been earning 1,200 a month, let's say, bracelets, I've been paying 300 bracelets, and I could get this extra piece of work, and I realized that it makes sense for me to work. And today, at this 1200, I have 600-700, or even more, to pay off, and it turns out that I have nothing left to do in this life, only to really starve for 800-900 dollars of pension. I therefore think that the right approach will be if we seriously finalize our bills, if we look at this situation that has touched people of pensionable, pre-retirement age, and especially pensioners, and really create conditions for them to work and provide additional income. In addition, by his own work. I therefore believe that this bill should be supported in the first reading, look closely at the proposals made there, and support the second reading with our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u212	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u213	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Well, it's generally a good bill and a good initiative from a respected colleague, although of course it doesn't solve all the problems with the only social contribution. Well, it's true that why do pensioners have to cover the pension deficit and pay the same social contribution? And the thing is, during their working hours, these retirees paid well, retired, and again they jerked them off. And I'm going back to the problem that I was talking about today, the problem of special benefits. The government has to start with all pension matters. This applies to all: both government officials and deputies and other authorities. The specialties have to be cancelled, and then the only social contribution will not have to be paid even by the pensioners and the disabled who work. Why do they work? Because they need some extra money to make ends meet. So, of course, this part of the bill deserves support, although it doesn't solve all the problems. Because, in my opinion, the only social contribution will work when we reduce the workload on the pay fund, unload and unlock production, and thus return the wages from the shadow to the light. And to reduce the amount of the only social contribution the government doesn't want, because it's a very resonant reform, you have to look for funds, you have to look for incentives and a lot more. Well, once again, the social security system is completely ineffective, I think: four funds, now maybe five is medical. On the other hand, the number of social funds should be reduced to a maximum of three funds and looked, on behalf of the state, to watch and exercise parliamentary control, and where they spend that money in those funds. Because they spend on construction, on computers, on annual program upgrades, on their own rest, and these structures are parasitic in this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u214	I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance. [[on the exemption of pensioners and persons with disabilities from payment of a single contribution]] [[Registration number 8287]] [[13:57:36]] For 106 Not turned on. The factions. The Party of Regions did not vote, BUT 48, Our Ukraine 13, the Communists 25, the Reforms 15, the People's Party did not vote, the Non-Faction Party did not vote 5. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending article 26-1 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. Sochka's reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u215	Alexander Sochka, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Dear colleagues, literally 40 minutes before that, I was told that the entire Kiev Center had been blocked because one of our VIP-persons had apparently decided to go to lunch in time, and that's why 25 minutes were stuck in traffic. What's more, people ask me questions, sometimes there have been reports from the media that the President is abroad, or the Prime Minister is on foreign visits, and at the same time, employees of the State Automobile Inspection are covering roads for VIP cruises, which they are not sure who they are transporting, because their passengers are doing other things at the time. Is it necessary to settle this situation that we have today? Of course you do. We often like to talk about what we are trying to be a European country. And in this context, we have to say, "How do we use the rules of VIP personnel, heads of countries in other countries, in fact, countries in the same Europe, in countries that we're used to calling civilized?" Thus, when Putin, as president of Russia, took an official visit to England and was to be admitted to the Queen, he was simply late in connection with the fact that there were no predominant rules for the passage of both the foreign delegation and the local, in fact, heads of the country. The same rules exist in others, Belgium, Austria. And these countries can be called, practically, all countries of Europe. There's one rule: the head of the country gets in the car, there's special cars that drive, well, there's the law enforcement agencies that are equipped with special T-shirts, and there's traffic rules that other road users have to just get rid of the road. Unfortunately, we don't have that. Because it's proposed by the bill. The bill is offered at least an hour and a half in the morning and at an hour and a half in the evening at the peak of our power to be a bit of European power, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u216	Thank you. Have a seat, please. For justice's sake. You know, a few days in Ukraine, there are huge international meetings. And here, please understand this: dozens of presidents, prime ministers of other states. That's why no one goes to dinner. Shall we discuss it? Sign up. Carmazine. Behind him is Zabzabuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u217	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to get the Supreme Council to adopt a code of road traffic laws. We didn't accept it. We didn't make it. Here we are now living, the whole state is responding under the Road Traffic Rules, which are approved by the government's decree. Think about it, please. And we think it's normal. Contrary to article 92 of the Constitution, 85th Constitution. Nobody's looking, they don't want to go back to it. Now in my break with the Afghans, I went out again before the Supreme Council. Seven buses stand with police, seven buses packed, and another bus near the Ministry of Health. What do we have, Mr. Mogilov, is so much money in the state that it could just be a police force of hundreds of men pulling away from business? And at the same time, the disclosure of crimes is falling, the information about this society is zero. That's why the proposal today is to write in the Road Traffic Act, article 26 "prim." To complete part four sounds absolutely apolitical. Temporarily restricting or prohibiting the movement of vehicles, pedestrians on separate streets, and roadblocks while driving by car of persons mentioned in part one of this article. It's forbidden on weekdays from 7:30 to 9:00, or 5:30 to 7:00. Of course, that's not enough because there's nothing at all. If Janukovic was driving in a normal car, he would know that he knew what roads needed to be done, what bridges needed to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u218	Zabuzek, get Popescu ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u219	I now give the floor to Alexander Soceke.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u220	Please, Juice, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u221	I'm sorry, I wasn't referring to this bill just in the last few days when we had a big forum here. In fact, you know, we have a very long time to solve this problem, and it's a long time ago. Because, in fact, people's discontent and the problems that call for the lack of resolution of this issue, and this is a violation of labour discipline, it's the inability of people to take their children to school in time, it's a constant nervous situation. At least let people get to that job and make a living. Now the following, it would be justified for us to exist, there are such absolutely dragonlike restrictions on other members of the movement in order to pass several persons. If our country were, for example, part of an international conflict, whether it was a warring side and we were under threat of a terrorist attack, but, in fact, our authorities, well, there's nothing to be afraid of. Then I ask, What are they really afraid of? And I'm going to the right-hand side of our room with the call to vote and show our people that if we don't. And you often refer to it, you don't. And today's bill vote showed that if there's no money there for any social benefits, pension increases, social workers and so on, at least show people that you're here three people ready to give up your privilege to get to work very quickly. There's a police force that can provide this passage, but please don't need any money. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u222	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u223	Thank you. Popescu, faction Party of the region. Dear colleagues, not only the author, but also another speaker from the rostrum very unfavorably responded to the temporary problems that are currently in motion in Kiev. However, I would like once again to draw attention to the fact that it was the donors of the Chernobyl donor conference that provided Ukraine with €550 million in assistance. If we are to hold such conferences in the future, we are ready, and the Ukrainian people are prepared to face these temporary inconveniences. As far as the bill is concerned. At present, everyone is aware that a more comprehensive draft law is being prepared in the Cabinet of Ministers, which will address these issues. For such narrow or narrow points, which offer frankly populist, for one particular moment, the Party of the Regions will not react or vote. In turn, we will work on our bill and support the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u224	I shall vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 26. 1 The Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. [[concerning the temporary restriction or prohibition of the movement of means of transport]] [[2:06:49]] For-74. Not supported. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine on a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities. [[Registration number 8276]] It's going to be the Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u225	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to pay special attention to you. Today, a bill on a simplified system of taxation is proposed for Parliament's work. For 12 years, the simplified taxation system worked in our country. It has been taught to use both good and bad. We remember with you the tax haven, we remember with you the President's promises that by 1 April, the Cabinet of Ministers will prepare its proposal for a simplified tax system and adopt clear, clear development conditions and conditions for our people to create their own business, create jobs, develop the economy. Regrettably, the first of April, the most draconian rules of the Tax Code entered into force, people who work in small businesses were banned from working with large enterprises, but unfortunately did not offer any alternative. As representatives of the opposition, we have prepared our bill, the bill has been discussed in all regions of Ukraine, more than 300 public organizations have supported and, in large measure, have written the bill themselves. And I do not want to say that the author here, no, has taken part in the drafting of the bill of over 300 social organizations and they have proposed a model that will indeed protect and fill people's affairs and budget, and create a stable business and investment community in the country, and enable our country to create an average class of independent people, people who have always been the foundation of democracy. I ask you to support this bill, to put it on the agenda and to give people today a green signal that we hear them, and we are really ready to consider people's laws and people's reforms, and to meet people today for their opportunities and opportunities for economic development in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u226	Thank you. Vote? Besides Carmazin, who else insists? Sign up, I continued, at the request of Zarubinsky. Chaplain, behind him Kirilenko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u227	Dear colleagues! The MP's Reform for the Future debated on Monday after this bill, you know, among our 20 deputies of view, they split. This bill certainly has positive qualities, and it has a positive effect on entrepreneurs that our reporter has highlighted today. Among them are single taxes, they increase in the use of employment, they introduce the simplest possible calculation of the introduction of entrepreneurial activities, the possibility of paying for goods, jobs, services for gross costs in the case of individuals and their association with legal persons. All of this is good, but there are some problems. In our view, they include an increase in the volume of proceeds from the realization of products for natural persons to 3 million, for legal persons to 10. I'll remind you that some time ago, we had this number, approved for individuals, equal to 1 million dollars. A very large number of amendments to the Tax Code, in particular, and the MPs of the "For the Future Reform" group, were presented, we offered as many as one and a half million, and 650 thousand, which was 300,000, but they were 500 thousand. In our view, this figure is unfounded and should be widely discussed and discussed. So the MP's Reform Group for the Future is defined with the next position, we're holding a free vote among our deputies. I'm sure some of our deputies are voting in favour, maybe someone against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u228	Ivan Kirilenko to the Royal. Please, the microphone. Behind her is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw the attention of the entire room, we are now just putting our work in order, that is, we are either talking to the whole business world, yes, we are prepared to consider models for the development of a simplified tax system, yes, we are ready to hear you, to work on this model, to offer alternatives. Or Parliament will say no today, we do not even want to hear about it, we believe that we do not need the middle class, we have adopted the Tax Code, which clearly states that the oligarchs are unhappy little entrepreneurs. You must understand that without the middle class we cannot form Ukraine's economic independence. The middle class is not born in itself; the middle class is not children of oligarchs, nor are children of officials who are now middle-class Ukrainians. The middle class is those people who were thrown into the streets in the '90s and who have not been able to develop properly in our country, who in 20 years of independence have not been behind the offers and requests of all our authorities, but have actually been able to organize themselves, organize small productions, create jobs and surround the work of those around them. They're people who don't make much money today, but they pay taxes and they want to work in our country. They don't want to go to the labor market. And our task with you is to give them a normal model of work, give them conditions for work and development so that they can form our economic independence. And the unwillingness today, and the denial of considering such an agenda, we immediately dismiss these people and knowingly condemn them to enter the shadows today, to go under the roof, not to form a normal tax base, we will reject these people today. We must understand that this will be a major crime against the economy. I'm asking everyone to support the model.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u230	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u231	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we were looking at draft amendments to the Tax Code yesterday. I don't know if everyone noticed that the project you supported, 8170, seems to me to have quoted the number, was purely lobbyist, purely lobbyist. They were aimed at lobbying a big business that imports something and so forth. This law does not apply to these. Because of this, Your Honor, I am surprised that the authorities would not want to put this bill first and we are looking at it at the end of the day. But it is good to see you, Adam Ivanovich. Because there are changes to article 85 of the Tax Code, which corrects and says what tax should be given to tax payers, including when checked if they are checked by tax officials. And it is clearly isolated that it should not be the physical persons of entrepreneurs, as chosen by the simplified tax system. There are also changes to article 139 of the Tax Code, which people today complain about when they talk about expenses that are not included in the determination of income tax. Clearly, it should not include expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition of goods and other material assets in the person of the entrepreneur who pays the sole tax except for expenses incurred in connection with the purchase of goods, jobs, and services to the individual. The changes to many legislative acts have also been clearly written. I don't see any danger in most of it if she votes for today's adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-20-m0.u232	Yes, thank you. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending the Tax Code of Ukraine on a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities. [[Registration number 8276]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:16:45]] For-103 Not supported. And, dear colleagues, the next bill of colleague Teryochin with the same name. Do you mind if we put it to the vote for inclusion in the agenda? Don't you want to? Suit yourself. Wait for the next Wednesday. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. In the afternoon, we work on committees, and I would like to ask the committees to look at the bills that we included yesterday in the agenda that require operational consideration. I'll start work tomorrow at 10:00.
