ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:42]] They registered in the session hall with Cards of 347 National Deputies. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, as you know, there has been such a planetary disaster in Japan in connection with earthquakes. Ukraine demonstrated its solidarity, expressed its willingness to provide practical material assistance. On behalf of the Supreme Council, I also expressed compassion. At the same time, dear colleagues, I ask you to honor the memory of the victims and to demonstrate our solidarity. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Skoubenko Volodymyr Petrovich. Let's welcome our colleague with life, life support, and wish him haste. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 1 to 4 March 2011. Five plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place. 59 questions on the agenda have been considered: 2 laws and 40 regulations have been passed, 11 bills adopted on the basis, 5 bills have been converted to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, 14 bills and 14 draft regulations have been rejected, 116 parliamentary requests have been announced. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and according to the signatures of the 27 Ukrainian National Deputies, reports on the creation of an interfractional "European Choice" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The goal of unification is to promote comprehensively and consistently the political association and economic integration of Ukraine into the European Union. The head of the interfractional parliamentary association "European Choice" is the national deputies of Ukraine, Anatoly Kirilovich and Plush Ivan Stepanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized representatives of MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, and reports. The factions and groups would like to sign up for the performance. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u2	Dear fellow citizens, dear colleagues! The government promised the Ukrainians a better life and stability, but the stability over the year was anything but a higher price and a lower standard of living. As if by principle a government cannot make a person rich, but it can make him poor. The Kabin has fallen literally in all directions. In particular, Ukrainians with great mistrust accept the stories of Deputy Prime Minister Sergey Tihypak about how the pension situation would seem to improve once the so-called pension reform was carried out. So far, there's only one real effect that she's going to have -- an increase in retirement age. Therefore, the so - called public discussion was fictional. The opinion of society is of no interest to the government; it has left an old, criticized bill; and the leaders of the Cabinet are trying to avoid responsibility and translate it into one another for pension reform, for the Tax Code and for all the following. The government is reporting an increase in the economy, taxes and congregations, but at the same time it is talking about an increase in the pension deficit. Pension reform is not possible without eradicating corruption and getting the economy out of the shadows, because only the unoccupied imports of petroleum products by Livella's sad, notorious company cost the government billions of dollars of damage. Corruption also has a direct impact on the daily rise in gas prices. Our faction has initiated a proper commission of inquiry on this issue, but has not yet received nominations from the majority factions. I'd like to ask my colleagues to run for office on this matter. The annual volume of smuggling is estimated at hundreds of billions of dollars. At the same time, experts warn that the Customs Code, which is being drafted by the government, will create new opportunities for even greater corruption. In general, all the codes proposed by the authorities - Tax, Housing, Labour - only make things worse for citizens and businesses. I said, "Don't do anything." According to media reports, the government’s own pension reformer sold his bank assets through the offshore, and Ukraine’s budget was not estimated at nearly a billion dollars from the operation. Billions of misnomers have been and are expected to privatize large Ukrainian companies, such as Kretelekoma, Lugansk Heat Transport, International Ukrainian Airlines, and others. This culinary privatization is actually without a competition for its own. Civilised countries are already responding to Ukrainian corruption not only by word of mouth but also by deed. Yes, as an example. The European Commission has deprived Ukraine of financial assistance because of the lack of transparency of public procurement, the US Chamber of Commerce has warned of the prospect of economic isolation for Ukraine in the event of the monopolization of agricultural exports. Our country is in the middle of negative light in international ratings. American experts have placed Ukraine sixth in the list of 16 countries at risk of default. There's a famous saying, "Responsibility is the price of power." I would add that the measure of responsibility for incompetent, harmful to people and the state of use of power should be high. Either the government will finally, irreversibly destroy the economy and the socialist, or be retired. There's no third. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u3	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh from the faction of the Party of the Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u4	Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! The faction of the Party of the Regions gives great importance to the systematic modernization of socio-economic, social life in our country, as proclaimed by President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine. The programme "Affordable Society, A Competitive Economy – An Effective State" envisions tax, pension, administrative, land improvement, deregulation, enterprise development, development of science and technology, innovation, upgrading of infrastructure and basic sectors of the Ukrainian economy. It is essential to adapt domestic legislation to European standards. As part of Ukraine's integration into European space, the Parliament has created an interfractional association "European Choice", aimed at bringing together legislative and executive branches of government, an expert environment aimed at concluding negotiations and signing an EU association agreement in 2011 that will include the creation of a deeper free trade zone with the European Union. The creation of modern standards of economics, rights, the quality of life of citizens is a very difficult thing to do without complexity, the inertness of the performers, the opposition of the dissatisfied. It is important that society, national MPs, recognize both the irreversibility and urgency of change and the regularity of the difficulties and problems on the chosen path, show the great responsibility, courage, and political will that the processes outlined require. The MP must work together as a whole, his only task is to frame the shoulders of society, the President, the State with a view to deepening the reform course, filling it with an intellectual component, increasing the efficiency of organizational action and implementing efforts. We understand the challenges of growth, but we also know how to overcome them. One of the most recent tasks is to complete tax reform. Not yet fully implemented by the President of Ukraine in the context of the introduction of legislation on improving the conditions for entrepreneurship, a simplified system of taxation. A joint hard-core monitoring of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the impact of new tax legislation on business activity, the business activity that depends on job creation and the budget for the development of the Ukrainian economy as a whole. Administrative reform, particularly given the importance of improving the quality of the profession of public officials, resisting corruption, is a cornerstone of success, as the ability of the public administration system to act agrees and professionally depends on the outcome. Clearly, quality improvements in human resources policies are needed. The pension reform must certainly provide people with a decent old age; it must become a powerful source of domestic investment, and in this context today’s bill requires a substantial improvement with the participation of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, society, and public associations. So the implementation of the modernization strategy needs to be accelerated. An important factor in success is constant communication with the public, an expert environment, equality with high mutual responsibility, dialogue of power and business, there is no alternative to change without systematic consistent structural reforms, our country cannot move forward and look forward to a worthy future. We urge all to work together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u5	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u6	Dear fellow countrymen, dividing their own citizens by their social significance into castes is an unacceptable thing for a democratic society. We can forgive young people for their eternal rebellion, their belief in eternal youth, but by reaching maturity, it is impossible to forgive ourselves for the fact that there is another social phobia in the country. We can and should protect the rights of national minorities, the rights of refugees, and so forth. But why, in protecting the rights of minorities, do we forget about the majority of the population, why do we allow another equally important division of society -- discrimination by age? In rephrasing the famous phrase, it seems that in our country the older generation is given exclusive respect, not expensive. In addition, respect is strange, for it ends immediately as it comes to money. Now we're not just talking about those who have retired, the age restrictions are much deeper. Open any job search site, the first requirement for any search engine is not knowledge, experience or professional knowledge, professional achievement, but age. Who thought that the next day after the 35th birthday, a person loses all his professional skills and immediately falls into an old dream? Who gave birth to this sociopsychological complex of employers? Why has the conviction that mature people are unable to do their work in a quality manner increased? In general, who gave the right to determine when old age begins, when a person loses the ability to perceive change, to produce money? And this is just about labour rights, and discrimination happens in all directions, starting with social rights and ending with household rights. The specificity of ejgism or the limitation of rights by age is that it will sometimes be tested by all. It seems like life ends with youth: after 45 you can't change jobs, after 55 you can't take credit, and after 65 you can't even claim to be left at work. Ukraine has faced a global challenge: about half the population – more than 20 million citizens are under pressure because their age has passed over 45. The only thing that saves the state from a huge scandal is that, for historical reasons, senior and senior citizens have not yet experienced the judicial and judicial defence of their interests, and therefore do not have adequate mechanisms for defending rights both within the State and in European or international arbitration. But this is for now. In accordance with article 24 of the Constitution, citizens have the same constitutional rights and freedoms and are equal before the law. But no one, 15 years ago, when they wrote down this rule and didn't think that there would be another restriction in Ukraine that they forgot to mention in this article is age discrimination. Did you know those 25-40-year-olds in the 91st year when they were supporting society with new possibilities that they would have to be victims of new phobias, new complexes of this society? And that their ability will be limited by the first. We need to create not just a state of equal opportunity, but a state of equal opportunity for all regardless of sex, nationality, including age. A person must be deprived of any limitations and always at any age have the hope that life can be better for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u7	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Sergey Sobolev will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Despite the unique natural climate conditions, the unique potential of the Ukrainian agro-industry complex, Ukraine faces a real threat to food and security. The Ukrainian village has been on the brink of extinction in 20 years of so-called reforms, and young people are leaving our villages. What if, compared to the 1990s, agricultural production at comparable prices decreased by more than 30 per cent. There's hardly any rent. Farmers simply have no working assets, no equipment, and no credit on acceptable terms. If 51 million tons of grain were grown in Ukraine in 1990, last year it was 39. Meat production declined from 4.4 million tons to 2.9 million tons. Milk is almost twice. The head of a large cattle farm in Ukraine is now smaller than on January 1, 1934, when there were no other five western areas in Ukraine. Clubs closed today, libraries destroyed by FAPs. The melioration systems in Ukraine have been virtually destroyed. And that's half of it. And the trouble is that the State has lost control of the strategic food market. They killed Ukraine's agricultural factories. The prices of mineral fertilizers, the prices of fuel, oil and lubricants are high. Capital does not even squander food. and sabotage, as evidenced by the empty pits, when it comes to the lack of bread. Thus, sabotage must be cut to the root. And I believe that the supervisory and law enforcement authorities should assess all these facts in accordance with the Penal Code. But above all, respected colleagues, the State must make the most of all mechanisms, particularly economic ones. And if we have to, today we have to nationalize the power plant and return the bread factories to state property. To this end, the Company of Ukraine is offering a system of emergency measures to ensure the country's food security. First, it is urgent to adopt the Food Security Frameworks Act, which provides for the introduction of a State monopoly on foreign trade in agricultural products. Secondly, to initiate the signing of an agreement with CIS States on food mutual assistance in the event of adverse climatic conditions and world conditions. Thirdly, to re-establish the annual compulsory public procurement system at firm prices for agricultural products. Fourthly, to introduce a moratorium on the import of food produced in sufficient quantities in Ukraine and, more importantly, today, to ensure everything that is necessary to protect the health of our people by cutting off every foreign mess in Ukraine. Fifthly, adopt the Cooperative Agricultural Enterprises Act, which would guarantee, at the State level, concessional lending of agricultural production to such enterprises under 3-5 per cent of annual, concessional terms of purchase or lease of agricultural equipment, and this list can be continued. Sixthly, to fund the needs of the Ukrainian agro-industrial complex of at least 10 per cent of the budget expenditure, to introduce tax breaks for APC enterprises for a period of 5 years and a moratorium on bankruptcy of agricultural enterprises. We Communists now also demand an unconditional ban on the free sale of agricultural land. Another tragedy unfolds in Ukraine when, after a production complex was opened and through the privatization of factories and factories in Ukraine, the economic base was destroyed today. We are in favour of the establishment of an Earth Fund through which every pie owner would be able to sell it at market price only once and only to the State. We are convinced of the need to take such emergency measures to ensure the country's food security.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u9	Sergey Sobolev, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Taras Cnerwell will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u10	A break in the supply of bread in some of the cities of Luhansk, a transportation for the Ukrainians of the Greek food industry, which is only suitable for feeding cattle, is actually Ukraine’s entry into 20 countries that are threatened with defolt and Ukrainian residence in the sixth place among these 20 countries. If you add a criminal authority that Interpol is looking for in recent times, this is the best painting that illustrates how this brilliant government has completed its year of work. But I don't think that's even the scariest thing. For almost six months now, our faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko has insisted that the level of inflation in the country be immediately brought to reality. Just yesterday, former Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko announced official data published by statistical offices, expert evaluations, where inflation rates are at least three times higher than the government's declared nine percent. Why is this so principled for our faction? Why is it so principled for tens of millions of our fellow citizens. I would like to read just one extract from the Ukrainian Citizens’ Index Act, which clearly states that the indexation is subject to: pensions with allowances, allowances, pensions, supplementary pensions, welfare benefits, monthly state aid for compensation, social assistance, including families with children, unemployment, temporary disability, and so on, scholarships, wages, financial security, damages caused by workers with disabilities or other health problems. And so almost on the page of the text of those things that have to be indexed according to the level of inflation. What, then, has been the result of the brilliant inventions of this government in the last and two first months of this year? 9 percent and 2 percent, respectively. You can only imagine that any Ukrainian citizen, including a worker or a pensioner, who today has the opportunity to care for a child or a disabled person, will not receive such government manipulations. In fact, today's rising prices for goods of primary necessity, for utilities that already range from one nomenclature to another, and for utility services, tens of percent mean one thing: every citizen of Ukraine who has to be indexed with a pension, assistance or a salary loses hundreds of dollars of those who are not paid every month according to a law that does not actually work. It's not just a game of numbers anymore, it's actually a crime scene. In that case, criminality, where we have to answer for every number that actually robs millions of our fellow citizens. To date, if we compare the real level of inflation with what the government is offering, we understand that it should have been easy to report to international organizations, signing the actual obligation not to raise wages and pensions. It is not easy to raise today’s utility tariffs, to raise the price of goods at a galloping pace. In fact, today we find ourselves in a situation where millions of our fellow citizens are not able to get what they want.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u12	A decent salary and pension, and in fact they found themselves at the price and price limit of what they had been guaranteed before. So our faction requires that we urgently index wages and pensions to the real level of inflation. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u13	Thank you, too. Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Today, there are important issues in Parliament's daily work. These are bills aimed at supporting reforms in Ukraine, as well as a number of bills of social regulation. But the main priority, in our view, is to complete the anticorruption review as soon as possible. We understand that the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Act is not a panacea. There is a need to develop a serious agenda of action, serious action, sectoral methods to combat corruption, and mother, above all, on this political will. But it must also be made clear that without the adoption of a basic law, this work will not move from a dead point. Hence, there will be no point in carrying out all other reforms. Without the adoption of anticorruption laws, the scourges of our state, corruption, will destroy all good beginnings. Because Ukraine, unfortunately, today, and for a long time, is one of the world leaders of corruption that harms the image of our nation, frightens investors, and actually destroys all the good beginnings that are being done today and the tiredness in this room. And so, the Reforms for the Future faction will contribute to the adoption of the Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption Act in Ukraine, as well as other necessary legislative acts in the shortest possible terms. This will allow us to move forward in a calm and systematic manner and to carry out our reforms. Today we should also listen to the Government's 2010 State Budget Implementation Report. In our view, in a very difficult year last year, the government has made every effort to keep the situation under control and has laid the groundwork for starting positive economic changes. The positive trends observed in the economy during the current year confirm that the government as a whole has managed the task within the limits of what is possible and give reasons for the possibility of budget adjustment and the allocation of additional funds to a number of social problems. Because it is the social component that our citizens will judge whether our reforms have been effective or ineffective. The correct accounting of finances, the implementation of tax legislation, the successful fight against corruption, the liberalisation of regulatory policy -- these conditions are necessary to strengthen the national economy, to successfully overcome the possible new wave of the global economic crisis. In responding properly to Ukraine’s external and internal challenges, it can, in principle, even strengthen its positions, strengthen its economic position, and restore its international, unfortunately, sufficiently lost authority. Dramatic events in the Arab world, a terrible tragedy that has taken place in Japan today, have been the harbinger of a possible new global crisis — a financial crisis, an economic crisis, and perhaps a political crisis. Before Ukraine’s last world crisis, unfortunately, it was not ready. And we are reaping the fruitage of this to this day. It is very important for Ukraine to be prepared for the possible new crisis that is already on the horizon again today, so that we can put in place appropriate reform legislation and work on the real implementation of reforms. And that's why the Reforms for the Future faction calls on the people's deputies to postpone the confrontation and to unite in the face of global challenges and to support the bills, both by the MPs and the President, which relate to the development of reforms, and the first and most important, in our view, is legislation to combat corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions are over. Regarding the suggestions made by our colleagues, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate letters, addresses, and assignments. Dear colleagues, let us now consider the issues set out in the schedule on Tuesday, March 15. At the same time, allow me to inform you, honourable national deputies, that during the Conciliation Council meeting on the proposal of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" that during the "hour of questioning to the Government" listen to information from the head of the State Property Fund. This idea was supported by the Conciliation Council, but at the same time, given that the "hour of questions to the Government" provides answers to questions from members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the Head of the Fund of State Property is the head of the central executive body, but is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we need to take the appropriate decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, dear fellows, I'd like your attention. I will put to the vote a proposal in the form of a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on hearing at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 18 March 2011 as part of the "hour of questions to the Government" information of the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Alexander Volodymyrovich, on the process of privatising public property objects during 2010-2011. Is the offer understood? Since this proposal is accepted, respected colleagues, and supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I put it to the vote. Please vote. [[10:31:39]] For 305 Decision taken. I ask you to make this decision by decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm going to the secretariat. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to further consideration. What? Ruslan Knazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u16	Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! What's this about? Now we've been given a day's work, where it's a question, if you've got your hands on it, read it. This is a draft law on anti-corruption principles in Ukraine. [[second reading]] Adam Ivanovich will confirm that we have already adopted this law in the second reading, we are simple. The law was adopted in the first reading and divided into two laws by a decision of the Supreme Council. The law that you wrote today, we have already adopted in the second reading, we have sent separate articles for third reading, and we are now considering in the second reading the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Liability for Violations. For corruption. And that's very important, because now even the MPs don't understand it, but the media and the E.R., so they keep making the idea that we haven't been able to look at it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u17	Thank you. I'm going to ask Adam Ivanovich for a position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Dear Ruslan Petrovich! You're right, but half. In fact, when we considered this bill, we talked about that when we finally adopt the bill, we will do as you say. That there would be a separate Law on Combating Corruption and that there would be a separate Law on Amending Laws in connection with the passing of the Law. We passed him, but we haven't voted for him yet. In general, we will vote in favour of this law by dividing it into two, that is, no decision has yet been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, do you understand? Since the law has one name, and we have agreed with you that when we make the final decision, we will divide this law into two parts: our own Law on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption in Ukraine and our second law is to amend the laws in connection with the adoption of this law. But on the condition that we're finally going to look at all of these tables right now. Got it, right? And the repairs. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to further consideration of this bill. I ask the distinguished national deputies to open the table on page 123 and invite Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov to the rostrum. We are now considering article 364. Yes, Ivan Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u20	Yes. Before the article. name.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u21	"Violence of power or duty."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u22	Before the article, the name.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u23	So should we vote on what is the title of the chapter? This is chapter XVII: "Policy in the field of service and professional activity related to the provision of public services." We are now moving on to Amendment 323, author Ariev. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Let's move on. Amendment 234, Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u24	I ask you to put an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u25	Please, Ivan Vasilovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u26	It's rejected, this amendment, because we've already said a lot, the proposal of this, the same content, was contained in the provisions of the draft law that the author of Yatsenuk told us about: the amendment to the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The bill was rejected in a plenary session. That's the same thing. And the committee is asking you to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u27	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 324, author Arsenius Yatzenuk. [[10:36:05]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. Amendment 325 counted. No warning?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u28	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u29	None. Let's move on. Amendment 326. It's rejected. Is the author insisting? People's MP Pshongka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u30	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u31	No, it's not. 327th, Ariev? No, it's not. 328th, Ariev? No, it's not. 329th, Ariev? No, it's not. 330th, Sergey Mishchenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we should be very careful about this new article, which is being introduced into the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Why? Because if we introduce 364 with badge 1, it will blur the active article: "Usage of power or official status." What I mean. If we see what sanctions are proposed for these articles by the author of the bill, we will see fines coming, arrests of up to three months. If this crime had been abused today, it would have been sanctioned up to three years, and severe consequences up to six years. And we're saying that corruption can now take place with fines. So I don't think it makes sense if these new articles are applied by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u33	Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u34	Very carefully correcting Sergio Mishchenka as an expert, but we still suggest that the hall be rejected. Because this is an amendment. It's ours. Our text, adopted in the first reading, is based on the fact that these crimes, and this particular article, are due to the social danger of the actions of legal persons of a private legal person, it is less than, let's say, in article 364, where there are other subjects. We suggest we reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on amendment 330, by Sergey Mishchenko. He had just justified his amendment. [[10:38:44]] For-45 Correction rejected. Amendment 331 is included. No objections? Is it? Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u36	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I ask you once again to consider what you are doing. You are now breaking the Criminal Code through your knee because you are amending the Criminal Code only on the basis of serious studies of generalizations and serious developments. You have a note of scientific expertise on the seven pages, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, where there is an evaluation of this proposal. Where words financed by a public, local budget for abuse of an official are now written down, replace the words "independently by legal form". So now we're going to have this: abuse of the authority of the official, the legal person of private law, regardless of the legal form. Who it is, what it is, and what you're doing it for, I can't understand how the person who gave three years to work on the Criminal Code, and I'm saying you destroy and destroy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u37	Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u38	Well, this question has been discussed too much, you know? And we still think that the degree of social danger of these articles, which are being supplemented, is much smaller than where the subjects of responsibility are officials and officials. So we think that the editorial that was adopted in the first reading is a success, and this article is normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, in view of the author’s insistence on this amendment, we need to put the vote to confirm this amendment, since the committee has taken it into account, but the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is needed. I'm voting on amendment 331. Please vote. [[10:41:19]] For 241 The correction is counted. 332nd Amendment, it's partially accounted for. Is there pressure from the author?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u40	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u41	None. I mean the people's deputy Rybek. Verni Dubov, the amendment, it's similar, we just voted it out. 334th, Rybeka, no. Ariev, 335th, there's no objection. Jury's digger, it's partially accounted for, no objections? None. 337th Verni Dubov Correction, accounted for. Is there no objection? None. 338, Yuri Voropeiev, she's rejected, do you insist on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! Please note, I will now put to the vote Article 365.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u43	364th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u44	I'm sorry, I'm putting to the vote article 364, please vote, with the amendments included. 364th, 364th badge 1. [[10:42:43]] For 258. The article is accepted. Let us go to article 365. Amendment 339 — No Ariev’s Warnings?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u45	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u46	It's not counted. Konovaluk, 340th. Is the author insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u47	Thank you. I expect that the amendment should be supported because it specifies the objective aspect of the crime provided for in article 365 of the Criminal Code. In addition, similar comments to this article were made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u48	Please, Ivan Vasilovich, is there meditation on the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u49	No, it's not. Because it's a term that we've adopted in the first reading, they're consistent with the terminology of Section III of the Police Act. We think it's best to leave it in the line that is to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u50	I'm betting on the vote of amendment 340, the author is Valery Konovaluk. [[10:44:15]] For-9 The correction is being rejected. 341st. Sergei Mishchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u51	Thank you. If we leave the next item in the final edition of article 365, that the excess of authority or official authority with the use of special means, the question becomes: What is the special means? Chemical, mathematical, I don't know what else might be special? It should be specified that these are special agents that cause harm. And if my readjustment is not taken into account, then I'm paying attention to a science-expert management that also points out that there is a need for special means to be complemented by the words "destined to do harm." Oh, yeah. Special means. What special means? Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u52	Ivan Vasilovich, the argument was already on this point, right? So we put to the vote this amendment is 341, which is similar to 340 amendments. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:45:43]] For-39 Correction rejected. Amendment 342. Arsenium Jacinyuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I would like to pay particular attention to the adoption of this bill. This bill will be as empty as an army drum if no decision is made on the criminal responsibility of the state's senior officials for acts of corruption. My amendment is to ensure that the term of imprisonment for senior officials, starting with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the President, ministers and other central authorities, is from 8 to 15 years old. That's what this is about. Introduce a separate responsibility for those officials who today represent the government of Ukraine, for those officials who have gone into politics, not to change the country, but to change life for the better of their party and their family. That's why I insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u54	Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u55	Considering the offer of Yatsenuk repeatedly, in this room we considered the proposal of January 12, but the terms of punishment are sufficient for, including for senior officials and for senior officials. We believe that Jaciny's proposals should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u56	I'm voting on Amendment 342, by Arsenius Yatzenuk. [[10:47:31]] For-59 Correction rejected. 343 revisions. Sergei Mishchenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, no one will deny that the task of these bills is that corrupters are appropriately called to account and cannot escape such responsibility. What do we do if we apply and introduce new articles of the Criminal Code regarding, including abuse of office or office? Because in this way, not only do we have double standards that will attract criminal responsibility, but we have triple standards. So the official will be able to avoid corruption under the new articles, because for example, for the serious consequences of abuse, up to 10 years of imprisonment, and for the new articles, he can now choose as correctional jobs as fines and so on. So it's not a fight against corruption, it's the other way around, we're pulling officials out from under the shock of corruption. And to others, we're going to introduce the physical person.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u58	Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u59	Well, an explanation of what Sergey Mishchenka said before. We're still dividing the degree of social danger in the actions of subjects, officials of public law and officials of private law, so we propose to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u60	Amendment 343, by Sergei Mishchenko, is put to the vote. [[10:49:25]] For-53 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 344 counted. No warning? 345th. Partially counted. No warning?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u61	The article should be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u62	So we can vote 365 with the badges all at once. Let's go like this. 346th. Counted. 347th. Partially counted. 348th. Declined. Are Ariev insisting? No, it's not. 349. Yuri Prokopchuk. Partially counted. Any warning? No, it's not. 350th. Yuri Voropeiev. No, it's not. Valérie Konovaluk. Counted. 352nd. Counted. 353. Declined. Is he insisting? No, it's not. The 354th. Sergei Mishchenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, this article suggests that, at present, the Scientific and Experimental Authority should replace the words "for the purpose of protecting rights, the interests of individual citizens, legal persons, the interests of society or the state" with the words "for the benefit of the motivations or in other personal interests or in the interests of third parties." Because we should specifically understand that such actions should be motivated by some kind of motive. We need a motive to determine which then we will apply the law enforcement authorities to criminals. This is, you know, not clear on how to apply the article without having a proper disposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u64	Ivan Vasilovich, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u65	The committee takes into account, indeed, these circumstances that Mishchenko is talking about. And the purpose in the article is to say, "in order to get the wrong benefit for yourself or others, if this has caused significant harm." And so on and so forth. There's a purpose in that. And Mishchenka’s amendment was rejected in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u66	Amendment 354 shall be put to the vote. [[10:52:02]] For-53 Correction rejected. 355th – Ariev insists? No, it's not. Yuri Prokopchuk is 356th. Is he insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! The text I have proposed in part one of article 365, footnote two, provides a comprehensive, rather than an open list of crime subjects, which will make it impossible for the public to interpret the norm. As used in this article and in article 368, footnote 4 of the draft Law, the formulation of "a different person who is not a civil servant, an official of local self-government, but is engaged in professional activities related to the provision of public services, including services." it allows such individuals to be treated in an extremely wide circle. [[That's where the list goes.]] We're talking about teachers again, doctors, hairdressers, taxi drivers, other means of transport. So is this the fight against corruption then? Corruption involves fighting in the higher echelons of power and in the echelons of power, and here, for statistics, they will fight against these categories. The committee’s point of view in the proposal is not and does not agree with the articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u68	Yes, please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u69	So the author of the amendment of Prokopchuk really worked very seriously on the draft law, but yet the text that we adopted in the first reading of this article is more clear and therefore the amendment of the Kopchuk rejected this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u70	Vote 356 Yuri Prokopchuk, please identify yourself. [[10:54:02]] For-49 Correction not supported. The 357 amendment is Valérie Konovaluk. Oh, no? 358, no. Yuri Prokopchuk is 359th. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u71	Amendment 359 is the essence. On the basis of amendment number 356, I have already said that the formulation of signs of crime, which is proposed to supplement the Criminal Code part one of article 365 with footnote 2, would not be specific and would allow the subject to be recognized as an unlimited person. Again I will not number: both doctors and teachers and taxi drivers and drivers. Therefore, I am invited in the footnote to article 365. 2 The Criminal Code defines the concept of "public services" and "persons who carry out professional activities" as elements of crime, which the draft law provides for the formulation of in articles 365, footnotes 2 and 358, footnote 4 of the Criminal Code. This will make their standards specific and clear and will make it clear with whom the fight is going. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! What? We're looking at 359 amendments. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to listen to amendment 359 of the People's Deputy and see, at the end of the text you have a reference to the legal administration on page six, where they say, people, define who they are and make a note. That's exactly what Prokopchuk did. I mean, I really did what I had to do. And here he predicted services of immaterial character that are also provided by executive authorities, local governments, public utilities, and so on. And in the second paragraph, he clearly states that under those who engage in professional activities related to the provision of public services, they are the officials who provide these services on a professional basis, as self - employed persons or hired workers. Without this note, it won't work, there'll be colossals all the time. I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on amendment 359. The justification has just been given to you. [[10:57:04]] For-55 No correction supported. 360 Amendment, Yuri Voropeyev. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, we need to vote 365 with badges 1 and 2. May I have your attention, please? I put to the vote 365 articles with badges 1 and 2, including. Please vote. [[10:57:45]] For 249 The article is accepted. 366 articles, 361 amendments, Ariev. Don't insist. 362nd Arseny Yatzenyuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! Once again, I turn to the part of the hall that represents the vast majority. This is about the introduction of criminal responsibility in relation to the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, his deputies, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, his deputies, vice-premiers, ministers, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine and senior officials, who, if they are accused of corruption, will be imprisoned for a term of 5 to 10 years with the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities. The adoption of this amendment will be a real step toward fighting corruption, not with teachers and doctors, which is the law that will fight them, but with real corruptioners. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment 362, by Arsenius Yatzenuk. [[10:59:25]] For-53 No correction supported. 363 revisions. Yuri Prokopchuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u77	As for Amendment 363. The proposal is to supplement the Criminal Code with article 366 with footnote 1 entitled "Service inactivity". This will allow for differentiation in the responsibility of officials for deliberate actions related to failure. That is, by deliberately avoiding their responsibilities. The proposed pattern of crime is not one of a form of servicelessness or negligence, as the committee believes, because it is a big difference, as they say, where targeted inactivity, which also results in certain consequences and mere negligence. Well, as it may be expressed, reckless behavior. That is why this article will provide a clear concept of servicelessness, and to my conviction it is necessary to introduce it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u78	Amendment 363 shall be put to the vote. The author is Yuri Prokopchuk. [[11:00:52]] For-51 The amendment is not accepted. Dear colleagues! We need to vote on the article. Article 366. I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? Article 366, please vote. [[11:01:28]] For 248 Decision taken. Now article 367, Amendment 364. Ariev. No, it's not. Arsenius Yatsenuk, Amendment 365. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u79	The contents of this amendment are similar to those of the previous three. It is the responsibility of those who are real corrupters, not the responsibility of those who want to be blamed for corruption in the country. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u80	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 365, by Arsenius Yatzenuk. [[11:02:17]] For-23 The amendment is not accepted. 366 amendment, the author is Pshonka People's Deputy. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yes, dear fellows, we must vote on Article 367. May I have your attention, please? Article 367 is put to the vote. What is the correction? I'm voting on Article 367. Please vote. [[11:03:02]] For 247 A decision has been made. Now let's go to article 368. Arsenius Yatsenuk, 367 amendments. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, this is about the composition of the crime, namely the bribe. This is one of the major corruption crimes in the country. In line with the proposed wording for this crime, all but those who actually take bribes will be held accountable. That is why I once again insist that an amendment be voted on, which includes the responsibility of directly senior government officials: members of the government, the Prime Minister, the President, and those who really influence the decision-making process, and those who are the main corrupters in the country. That's why I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u82	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 367, by Arsenius Yatzenuk. [[11:04:13]] For-52 Correction not supported. 368 Amendment, Yuri Prokopchuk. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u83	I want to go back to the part where we looked at it last time. Where is the determination of the size of the bribe? We have the law, the bill is prepared so that small portions can be bribed if they are broken and do not exceed five minimum. Well, you know, when you measure it with buds, that's how many parrots you can get, and that's all you can do. It seems to me that those persons who are officials, those who fall under the Corruption Act, have a minimum responsibility, i.e. from one untaxed minimum of citizens' income. And this will immediately stop the provision of help with payments there, something else, something like that, that gives rise to just a little corruption, which then becomes a major corruption. So I ask you to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to the vote. [[11:05:34]] For-40 Correction not supported. 369 amendments, Yuri Prokopchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u85	It's not just a colossal, nonsensical, paradox. We have a committee, rejecting the offer: to recognize the officials who hold responsible and particularly responsible positions, the officials of local governments, well, this original interpretation carries out, which means that one level of responsibility for embezzlement of civil servants and officials of local self - government is unappreciable. Would you please tell me where the biggest bribe was taken? He is the very representative of the corruption authority of the local government in Barovara. As I recall, these are forty million land issues. And now we are bringing out, including all the officers who are in election positions from under this law. So those who and the representative, for example, there are administrations and so on, they answer, and those who are elected are the council heads and so on, they don't answer. It's the same colossal thing we're now putting into law. Responsibility must be the same for all. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u86	Ivan Vasilovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u87	You know, there's a lot of revisions and this particular Digger about how many years it takes. You know, we're 450 people, and anyone can say that it takes four years, and others will say four and a half, and so on. The committee concluded that the main criterion here is how much to give, and to put into law, is the degree of social danger of crime. And yet we think that the high-ranking, and in this right-hand Yatzenuk, they get more, the local officials get a little bit less and so on. That's the main criterion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u88	There's an amendment to the 369th vote. [[11:07:47]] For-47 Correction not supported. 370th Amendment count, no warning to her? 371th Amendment, Jaroslav Jojik. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u89	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. The proposal offers a flexible approach to establishing responsibility for different categories of persons. On the one hand, the very strict responsibility, up to life imprisonment, of getting bribes on a particularly large scale, on the other hand, to officials and officials of the public authorities and local self - government who were detained in the course of demanding and receiving bribes, but who agreed to cooperate with law enforcement authorities aimed at exposing the shareholders involved in creating a system of extortion and receiving bribes, applies the lowest limit, including reduced twice. The combination of these measures, we think, will allow us to reduce significantly this shameful phenomenon that we have in Ukraine today. So I'm asking you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u90	Yes, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u91	Well, that's all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, on the same subject, is a personal proposal specifically made by the deputy of Jojik. He has his own vision of it. But we do think that the text of the disposition and sanctions of the articles voted on in the first reading is more harmonious and more clearly suited to the purposes of the law, particularly the Criminal Code of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u92	The vote is amended by 371, author Jaroslav Jódzik. [[11:09:55]] For-34 Correction rejected. Amendment 372. You're insisting on her, aren't you? No, I can't see. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone of the people's deputy Rybeki.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! My rights apply to what the Council of Europe, GRECO, international organisations and the international community demands that such a crime as bribes be, should be criminalized, not administrative. So my amendment refers to such concepts of bribes. That's why I'm asking her to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u94	An amendment of 372 people’s deputies, Rybeka, is put to the vote. [[11:11:05]] For-45 Correction not supported. 373 revisions included. There's no warning to her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u95	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u96	374th. Sergei Mishchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! What is suggested by legislation in the new article of the Criminal Code? I'm just going to read it, and I'm not going to say the name until now. "Benefitting a serviceman's ill-favoured benefit in a large amount," illegal wealth is called. Everybody's gonna say it's a bribe. This is getting bribes. Why do we now divide the notion of bribes, bribes, into illicit wealth? Why is that? Because the possibility of an official, no one will say here, John Vasilovich will also not say that they are public or private officials. Here's everyone, here's all the officials of all the species. They will now be able to evade responsibility for receiving bribes. It's an article called Illegal Enrichment, which provides for twice as many sanctions. Because the size is up to five years old and it was up to ten years old. So we're going to fight corruption against officials?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u98	Amendment 374 of Sergey Mishchenka is put to the vote. [[11:12:38]] For-47 Correction not supported. 375 revisions counted, no warnings? Three-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Is the author insisting? No, it's not. 377th. Arsenius Yatsenuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u99	Regrettably, none of the amendments relating to the responsibility of senior government officials are accepted by the parliamentary majority. This amendment is also designed to introduce a separate category of responsibility for senior officials. I have mentioned the list on several occasions: the President, the Prime Minister, the members of the government, the Head of the Supreme Council, Natzbank, and others. It is a matter of gaining an improper advantage on a large scale or on the part of close relatives. The next suggestion is to introduce responsibility for such persons for depriving them of their liberty for a term of 8 to 12 years. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, there is 377 amendments to the vote, by Arsenius Yatsenuk. [[11:13:55]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Amendment 378. Arsenius Yatsenuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, this is a very serious norm, namely, illegal wealth is proposed to identify individuals who refer to the first category of civil servants and their families. It is a matter of taking responsibility for such officials, and this responsibility will apply, including in that case, if such officials do not give attention! - income declarations and spending declarations. This is a fundamental issue of the law. This law will be effective only if the higher public officials and government officials make declarations about their expenses. Failure to submit such a declaration will entail criminal responsibility. That's why I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin for this matter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u103	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I request you. I'm asking you to pay attention right now to what we're saying is that life is getting harder, harder and harder, everyone's already figured out where it's going, and our expenses are going abroad. So this article, this supplement, this amendment 378 obliges us to declare both property and shares, and everything else, including abroad, if it belongs to our person. So, of course, it's also about MPs that have billions, or they can get billions in a year, and it's obviously going to apply. So people are asking today, let's start with the highest officials. Therefore, this amendment is extremely relevant, necessary. And only she, just for her sake, needs to pass the law, otherwise the law just doesn't make any sense if we can't see any property in Ukraine or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 378, the author is Arsenius Yatzenuk. [[11:16:35]] For-61 Correction not supported. Next. 379 Amendment, Yuri Prokopchuk. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u105	If we're looking at the problem of illicit wealth. What exactly is "illegal enrichment"? Illegal wealth is from the minimum size and to the transfer to the property of factories, factories, the race of funds, including money, offshores, bills and so on. Accordingly, I have also proposed sanctions that should build responsibility depending on the benefits that have been gained, or illegal enrichment. Only then will it work. Otherwise, I agree with Jury Carmazin speaking, we make this law, well, something so ephemeral to please someone there, to get another tranche that goes through and so on and so forth. Where is the fight against corruption, when we put on the same level, sorry, as they say, a shallow official in some office and those who are chasing Ukrainian property as a gift to officials there for not being touched. That's why I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, we are voting on Amendment 379. The author is Yuri Prokopchuk. [[11:18:14]] For-49 Correction not supported. Amendment 380. Counted. There's no warning to her? Amendment 381. Partially counted. No warning? Amendment 382. Sergei Mishchenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, to this day it was clear that getting bribes is getting bribes. And now that some articles are being applied that are vilifying and blurring the concept of "getting bribes," the question is, what does that mean? So we've already talked about illegal wealth, no one has answered me, and what makes it different from getting bribes. The next article we're going to introduce is "commercial bribery." How can you be bribed without a bribe? Or, for example, the next article is "the bribe of a person who provides public services," including an official of local self-government, where more bribes are committed. Why is this being done? But after the adoption of these laws, the officials will applaud you. Because they had already sanctioned articles for their operation up to 12 years, up to 10 years, for significant, and now 4, 3 years, fines. So, I'm sure it's a fight against corruption, it's a campaign to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u108	Amendment 382, by Sergei Mishchenko. [[11:19:58]] For-43 Correction not supported. 383 amendments - included. No warning to her? Amendment 384 - partially counted. No warning? 385 amendment, Yuri Prokopchuk - partially counted. Do you agree with her? Thank you. 386th, accounted for. No warning? 387th, partially accounted for. No objections? Next. 388th, accounted for. 389th, accounted for. The 290s are off. Yuri Prokopchuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u109	It is here that we are talking again, just a reading of an article that speaks of offering or giving undue benefit, where the grading of responsibility for the action is going on. I mean, depending on the wrong benefit. So as not to put another employee, such as a farmer in a pickle, and an official in the Ministry. Because, again, we have a responsibility, the statisticians are doing today, and they're showing that they're fighting corruption. Starting to fight in silrada, rajrada, small towns, because in big cities we see what's going on. And that's why it gives you a treatise and responsibility, including criminal responsibility, to the extent it's done. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u110	Amendment 390 of Jury Prokopchuk is put to the vote. [[11:21:53]] For-58 Correction not supported. Amendment 391, Yuri Voropeyev. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 392th counted. Any warning? None. 393, Yuri Prokopchuk. Please. microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u111	In fact, here again comes the specification that should fall within the scope of this law, i.e. the transfer to an auditor, an expert, a notary, an evaluator. So those who are directly involved and usually in a group, because you know, for example, the raiders as they happen, and who participates or participates in it. This is usually a notary, a judge, a representative of BTI, and so on. It is here that the law is not to be exterminated and not to fight against all, but not by anyone on that issue. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u112	I bet on the vote of Amendment 393, by Yuri Prokopchuk. [[11:23:06]] For-55 Correction not supported. Amendment 394 The Jury of the Digger of the same content.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u113	In fact, it works in this very key, and it does specify this law again. Guys, think about what we're doing, what kind of corruption are we going to fight here? Well, when no amendment is made, including that it is appropriate, that it is correct. Today we have built such a law that there will come who will fight, and it must be laid down by notary law, by other law, and so on, and we will watch, and with what we will take a concrete look. All the details are fully reflected in the draft law. And now we're going to get to the end and just-just the document that's going to be offered -- this is going to be the fight, as we've already listed here, with teachers, doctors, taxi drivers, drivers, but not with the highest echelons of power, as it should be, as it is done in all countries. So I understand that this isn't going to be supported either, but I'm still asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u114	Puts to the vote Amendment 394. [[11:24:34]] For-65 Correction not supported. Amendment 395, Yuri Voropeyev. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Victor Schwetz, 396 revisions. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 397th. No, it's not. Dear colleagues, we need to vote now on Article 368, including badges 1, 2, 3. 4 Is there any here? And four. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote for the article. [[11:25:41]] For 253 The article is accepted. Yes, fellow believers, now Article 369, Amendment 398. Doesn't the author insist? I can't see. 399th. Neither did I. Amendment 400, Arsenius Yatzenuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! The Law on the Fight for Corruption is being concluded, not on the fight against corruption. First of all, I'm talking to the vast majority. You were talking about the need for a dialogue. Your whole dialogue is knocking on a wall that doesn't even answer. All the amendments made by the opposition to anti-corruption law have been rejected by you as a majority. The main responsibilities of the bill are primarily the responsibility of the President, the Prime Minister, the heads of Parliament, ministers, heads of special and law enforcement bodies, and are excluded from this law. The main issues that call for the responsibility of the highest public officials are not deliberately voted upon by you. This law is nothing more than a imitation of the fight against corruption. You don't want to fight it, you've led it, and it's a pleasure. I demand that you put to the vote the last amendment with the understanding that you will not vote for it because you don't care.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u116	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, you have now heard the "flame" speech by Arsenius Yatzenuk and I inform you that in that edition of the Anti-Corruption Act, which was this very article in 2009, "Proposal or Bribery" is one at a time. And all the penalties, all the sanctions. articles and parts of articles one in a row as well as today. We didn't change anything. So, Arsenius Petrovich, your speech. I don't know what he's doing. Then you accepted, you voted, everything was fine, if your authority was still, and now it's not like that anymore. That's right, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u118	I'll bet the vote on amendment 400. The author is Arsenius Yatsenuk. [[11:28:16]] For-68 The correction is being rejected. Yeah, 401 revisions. Is the author insisting? No, it's not. 402. Yuri Prokopchuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! Again, it's about that. about the formulation as referring to responsibility, let's say, of those who proposed or gave bribes. You know, he's sometimes very well required, and a person is forced not to close the business there and so forth, to go to extremes. Although this is subject to, let's say, the classification of a crime. Yeah? And I'm just proposing to replace the words "freed from criminal liability" with the words "not subject to criminal responsibility." Because when there's a bribe demand, and by the way, we've demolished it again, including this article. That's why I think it's quite, as they say, up to date, and it would actually affect at many times that people who were forced to bribe would go to those officials who took them to claim, without being criminally responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u120	The vote is amended by 402, author Yuri Prokopchuk. [[11:29:52]] For-50 The amendment is not accepted. 403 Amendment, Yuri Prokopchuk. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u121	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. I understand it's coming to an end. And what is now being offered to Ukrainian society in the form of fighting corruption is actually simply to cover corruption in the higher echelons of power. This is a fight against those categories that have repeatedly been sounded here in order for statisticians, because statistics need to be done, to execute a plan for criminal accountability, and again, teachers, doctors, bus drivers, sellers, hairdressers -- all those who are currently in the field of services. Criminal responsibility under this law will be relieved of all officials in the higher echelons of power and all oligarchs who will not be held criminally liable according to the sanctions offered. It's not the law to fight corruption, it's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, this is Amendment 403, by Yuri Prokopchuk. [[11:31:30.]] For-56 Correction rejected. 404 readjustments included. Any warning? 405th is also included. Any warning? 406th and 407th are partially accounted for. Any warning? 408, negative. Victor Schwetz, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I propose leaving article 370 or the amendment under number 408. These provisions of the law in the form in which they were voted in the first reading. I think it's in the first reading. It is more effective and more consistent with the essence of that law. I would like to point out that bribery is one of the kinds of bribes, and the difference is that bribes in the form of bribes are given to the official person, or failure to do what is done in the interests of the briber. I propose that if my amendment is not now voted on, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhajlovich, you put to the vote the confirmation of the editorial that the committee proposes for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u124	Yeah, he does. Ivan Vasilovich, for that matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u125	Well, what about it? Once there is responsibility for commercial bribery, we are, of course, responsible for the provocation of commercial bribery in the first edition. That is all, in our view, logically, so we propose to reject the correction of Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u126	Yeah, I'll put it to a vote then? Victor Dmitrovitch, for that matter? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u127	Ivan Vasilovich, my proposal is not to remove, for example, these positions. I suggest that the first reading should remain, it's more correct, it's more successful. And that's exactly what my correction was all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u128	Yes, dear colleagues, I'm voting on amendment 408, by Victor Schwetz. [[11:34:09]] For-63 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, we need to vote on Article 369. Yes, the vote is based on article 369, 369 badges 1. Yeah? Please vote. And 369.2 [[11:34:50]] For 244 Decision taken. Yes, Article 370, Jaroslav Jojik, 409th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? This is page 160. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u129	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. The point of the proposal is to exclude from the Criminal Code the responsibility of instigating bribes in the first place. This will allow law enforcement officials to actively use bribe provocation as a method of identifying and punishing those who thus seek to gain wealth. This would allow a faster way to overcome corruption in the same DAI system, the tax, customs service, many of our other state authorities that perform control functions. So I'm asking you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, this is Amendment 409, by Jaroslav Jódzik. [[11:36:10]] For-38 The amendment is not accepted. 410 revisions counted, no warnings? The 411th, the author insists? No, it's not. 412th, Sergey Mishchenko, do you insist on them? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u131	Thank you. I have a question for the committee representative. Ivan Vasilovich, when the committee created a number of abuses in office and office, excesses, several bribes so-called, you explained that the responsibility of public and private officials should be delimited. Why did you put 370 in one, both bribe provocation and commercial bribery? And what's the distinction here? What's more, this is what the science department is talking about, it's not just my amendment. That's what the science-expert administration notices, that in this way, you and all of you have moved into one: both private law and public law, there you did one thing, here you are -- quite another. What will be the explanation?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u132	The normal explanation will be. Because your amendment to the committee suggests that you reject because you do not have the responsibility to provoke a commercial bribe. It's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u133	Dear colleagues! Vote 412 by Sergei Mishchenko. [[11:37:53]] For-48 The decision is not made. 413th. No, it's not. Don't insist on Konovaluk. Ariev, 414th. No, it's not. Are you insisting? No, no. Let's move on. Jaroslav Jojik, 415th, do you insist? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u134	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! Today, we are all witnessing how virtually all the real anti-corruption mechanisms offered by the opposition have been rejected once again by the overwhelming majority. And that means that the real fight against corruption in our country will not start, but I stress once again that the scale of this phenomenon in Ukraine is such that it threatens Ukrainian independence as such. This means that no reform in the Ukrainian State without the adoption of a real mechanism to combat corruption will succeed. This means that the economic situation in the country, the quality of life of every Ukrainian citizen, will deteriorate. So I go to the vast majority, to realize all the problems and risks that the state faces and to reexamine the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u135	Please, Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u136	Dear national MPs, well, it's getting kind of confusing. Another crying is not clear why. Dear Mr. Jojik, and all the others you will build on this subject, the real fight against corruption will be. It will be a real fight against corruption. The bill is built like this, and you all know who did it, that the mouse won't blink. And "seven all" don't worry, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u137	Yes. The vote is amended by 415 and the amendment is amended by Jaroslav Jódzik. [[11:40:18]] For-28 The correction is being rejected. 416 revisions. Jaroslav Jojik, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u138	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, we are finalizing the adoption in the second reading of this bill. On another occasion, I would like to point out that none of my 43 amendments to this bill have been counted. Moreover, instead of creating real mechanisms to fight corruption, this bill creates another step towards the creation of a totalitarian state, by putting everything under control and everything in that state. I, for one more time, have the opportunity to discuss this bill, to turn to the vast majority, not to take such a disgraceful step and to go back to discussing the opposition's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, before putting to the vote, I'd like to ask that we, from the political point of view, be professional. And before turning to the vast majority, turn to your own faction, which also does not support you. The faction does not support your family. Of the 28 deputies, only a vote of 72 is supported. So it's... it's... Please, calm down. I'm betting on a vote of 416 amendments. [[11:42:12]] For-162 You see, you've been listening. Nevertheless, the amendment is not accepted. Amendment 417.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u140	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u141	Amendment 417. After this amendment? Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National MPs, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I would like to draw your attention to this article, the addition of article 27 with the "2" badge, this is the Criminal Procedure Code, which says that we can now bring criminal responsibility only if there is a claim by the owner of this legal person or by his consent. So think about it, please, that the law is not going to be the same for everyone, as you've been saying all along, as we're saying. This is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, first. Look at how this scientific expertise and legal administration characterizes. They say that this is becoming an example of a private accusation and is unacceptable. And I point out to you that the main goal was to repeal laws so that law enforcement authorities and local authorities could get an apprehension. This is provided for in article 17. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, let's do this now. Request to vote in favour of Articles 370, 370 with the '1' badge of the Criminal Code, and then we'll move on to the Criminal Procedural. No objections? I put to the vote articles 370, 370 with badge 1. Please vote. [[11:44:23]] For 252 Decision taken. Now the amendment 417 was made by George Carmazin. Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u144	We think that the text that we adopted in the first reading and the addition to the Criminal Procedure Code is perfectly logical. Because Karmazin is speaking about a legal person, but we're not talking about every legal person, we're talking about legal persons in private law. And really, we already have so many criminals that it's enough to plant everyone, probably the entire population, all 45 million. But here it is, according to the owner's claim, really, to his judgment. If the interests of a particular small company are harmed, let him decide whether to bring his offender to justice or not. There's nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, we must now put to the vote a motion for confirmation of Amendment 417. It's counted by the committee. I'm putting this motion to a vote, namely, to confirm amendment 417. [[11:45:47.]] For 256 Correction supported. Amendment 418. Sergei Mishchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u146	So I don't get it, is the amendment supported by the exclusion of 27 with the badge 2? She was expelled from the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u147	They counted, supported my amendment there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u148	Did you count on her being expelled?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u149	They didn't. Why were they expelled? They counted the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u150	Because, by the logic of things, this article, article 27 with the badge 2 itself, gives birth to corruption. Why? And this is not an offender. This is a subject of corruption that has committed a corrupt crime. Ivan Vasilovich, it's not a criminal. That's how we create corruption. The owner of the legal entity himself will determine for which, for the same bribe, money will determine whether to bring him to criminal responsibility, as you say, the offender, and I say that he is the subject of corruption or not. And that's true of you?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u151	Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u152	Well, it's like the reports, like in the DAI Republic, that if you take their reports of how many times a year are being drawn to administrative responsibility for violating the traffic rules, that's how many millions of people are going to say it. So it is here before corruption. You know, under the slogan of fighting corruption, we, I don't know what we want to write down here. Even so, there are legal grounds for private law that these things that we're proposing are perfectly logical.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote Amendment 418, Sergio Mishchenka. [[11:47:47]] For-48 Correction not supported. So, dear fellows, I'm putting it to a vote. No, no. Article 27 of the 2nd "Attraction to the Criminal Responsibility of a Legal Person" and the corresponding article, please vote. [[11:48:23]] For 253 The article is accepted. Let us now move on to 98 articles. Yeah? Ivan Vasilovich, we now have article 98.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u154	Yes, but we didn't vote on the 419th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u155	And the 419 amendment, what does it refer to, to what article?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u156	To the preceding article that we voted on. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u157	Ariev does not insist, so we move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u159	Article 98 of Amendment 321, 421 Excuse me, Sergey Mishchenko, do you insist on it? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u160	Dear John Vasilovich, you know, then we get out of your logic that one corrupter who committed a crime is equal to another corrupter; another corrupter is whiter than another. Do you understand? This is where we give birth to this corruption when, not the law enforcement authorities and the court determine who is a corruptionr, but rather determine who is a private accusation by some owners of legal persons: who are guilty, who are innocent, who are not guilty, who are guilty of criminal offences, who are not guilty of criminal offences. So what is equality before the law in this case?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u161	I answer you. Let's put it this way, the truth has always been defined and defined by practice. We are this bill as a law, and we will not be passed forever. We're not going to write what's inconceivable forever. Yeah? If something goes wrong, we realize that maybe it's illogical somewhere, maybe even in this part, maybe. It's a novelty. So if the practice goes, we'll listen, we'll monitor the law enforcement as the practice goes. If something goes wrong here, of course, including you make corrections, I'll make corrections, and let's review this rule if it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, amendment 421 is put to the vote. [[11:50:46]] For-46 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Article 98 of the Code of Conduct. [[11:51:10]] For 253 Decision taken. Next, we turn to article 112. Amendment 423 counted. Is there any insistence on her? None. 424th, Sergey Mishchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, this amendment is logically coming out of the rights that I have submitted earlier in relation to the fact that I am against having in criminal law several abuses of office, several excesses, several bribes, because thus we give the clerk, the corrupter, the subject of corruption under article 4 of the law that we have adopted in the second reading, a liability. So he's got the right, he's got the right, he's got the right, he's got the right, he's got the right, he's got the right, he's got the right, he's got the right to go through law enforcement, he's got the right to say through the lawyer that I didn't get the bribe, I got the wrong way, I got the money, and my family got rich, and give me a fine, not a 12-year sentence. And so it logically follows that these articles should be excluded from the Criminal Procedure Code as well as from the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u164	Yes, dear fellows, there is an amendment to the vote of 424 Sergey Mishchenka. [[11:52:41]] For-64 Correction not supported. Yes, 425 revisions. Is she being pressured by Voropeiev? No, it's not. 426th? No, it's not. 427? No, it's not. Yeah, 428 counts. Who insists on it? No, it's not. Now we have to vote, honourable colleagues, on part one of article 112, right? I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:53:29]] For 252 Copy that. Let us now move on to the amendments to the Law on State Service. Amendment 428 is included. Is there a warning to her? None. Then I'll put it to a vote. Well, he's going to the State Service Act right now. I'm voting on a proposal on the right-hand side to amend the Ukrainian Law on Public Service. Please vote. [[11:54:18]] For 262 Decision taken. I also now place the right part of the table on paragraph 3 of section 1, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement and Certain Other Legislative Acts on Improving the Procedure for Forced Enforcement of Decisions of Courts and Other Officials. Turn it off here, too. and paragraphs 4 and 5 of paragraph 1 of section 6, paragraph 3, of the Ukraine Act on Access to Public Information to Exclude. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:55:10]] For 258. Decision taken. We still have a mandate from the Cabinet of Ministers. Here is Sergey Mishchenka's proposal. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. So I am voting on the right-hand side of the table of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the three-month period from the date of entry into force of this Act "to ensure the adoption of the regulations provided for by this Act; to bring its legal acts into conformity with this Act; to ensure that the laws of the ministries and other central executive bodies comply with this Act." Please vote. [[11:56:05]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We completed our consideration of the law. Since we have a number of articles to work on, that is to say, third reading, we need to make a decision on the second reading, except for separate chapters, and send them to the Main Committee for further elaboration and the next submission of the draft for third reading, for a second time again, right? We're just re-directing the articles, aren't we? Dear colleagues, therefore, are being offered. Article 123 of the Rules corresponds to paragraph 4: on the adoption of a second-reading bill, with the exception of separate chapters, chapters, articles, parts of articles, and on their second-reading to the Main Committee. These are articles 1st and 11th. This way. I'm asking you, let's do it this way. Since the bill is extremely responsible, I ask that you give one minute away from the factions. Ruslan Knazevich. Then there's Mishchenka. Then there is Oleg Zarubinsky, Mikhailo Chechetov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u165	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I just didn't get it. The point is that we have decided to send individual articles to the third reading, right? This is about the first article and the corresponding 12th article regarding financial control. But the point is that article 11, which deals with a special inspection, refers again to the issue of financial control, namely, that when a person is employed, he should make a declaration. Since in this article, the 11th, where the language of such a declaration is approved by the Ministry of Finance along with the Ministry of Justice, and in article 12, we have foreseen that this should be in accordance with the law itself, and that it should not be repurchased to the special ministries, then this article, once again with the 12th, should be transposed. Because if we don't move it, we have to do the following, and this law allows us to: if we change to the 12th to the third reading, we're going to have to vote on the third reading and the 11th coming out of the 12th read.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u166	That's absolutely right. When we return to the second article, the first and the eleventh, the ugly second calls for their vote. Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u167	But, dear colleagues, there is another problem. How long has this law been valid? When we discussed this issue, including with the Chief Legal Authority, we came to understand that the law could not have a reverse effect. And just so that we don't have to force people to declare expenses, including from January to this point at a time when people were not able to calculate these expenses, somehow track them down so that they wouldn't be punished. So, given these circumstances, when we're a special addition to the c. accept. We need to take into account that the next time we vote in this section, we need to put it into action, and we need to put it into other terms than the body of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u168	In any event, this law will take effect after the first days of April, and the declarations will be filed by all government officials and those making the declarations by April 1. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u169	according to the formula that was. And when we finally adopt the law, we're going to take this position with you, you're absolutely right not to get double readings. Sergei Mishchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u170	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a very responsible attitude toward the adoption of this law. Indeed, the country needs this law. Because, if you remember, the Supreme Council has repealed not only those anti - corruption bills but also repealed the 1995 Bill, and for three months now, the law enforcement agencies have not filed reports on corruption at all. Because there is no Anti - Corruption Act in the country. It is urgent to accept it. The question is, however, that our allowances are only about ten percent, or maybe five percent, of them. They're completely consistent with the observations given by the scientific and scientific administration and the legal administration. But if you don't want to accept our amendments, look at the experts of the Supreme Council. Because this is how we balance our legislation. I am sure that we should go back to those remarks and fully work the whole law back on the committee and give it there on Thursday or Friday to vote on it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u171	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u172	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like to move away from my colleague Mishchenk's point of view of such a serious law, the bill is responsible. And that's why I think it's absolutely necessary to avoid all the noisy "callous" references, not to solve legislative issues, but to the media and to the citizens alone. This is indeed a cry for help when a person shouts, and ten men of his fellow factions vote for him. So I think we need to move on calmly and agree to the offer of Knazevitch that he can't accept any legislative act with a tail count, or, more specifically, he can't act within months when a person doesn't know that it's an act that's being adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u173	Mikhailo Chechetov, please, then Volodymyr Beaz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u174	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! It was nice to see a large number of deputies in the hall, it was nice to see how consolidated and right, and the left side of the hall was working constructively on the bill. In fact, anyone who had made an amendment had the opportunity to argue that he had been heard. Part of the amendments were supported, part was rejected, including the amendments by the majority and members of the Party of the Regions. But what I want to say is that, in principle, we were ready today to vote on the law as a whole and to put an end to it. But after prominent lawyers, like Mr. Knazević, have made quite an argument with the need to look at certain articles again, we support them. It was not then said that the Party of the Regions was overpowering the adoption of the law, that we were democratically approachable and that we proposed to support the bill for second reading. On second reading again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u175	Valerius Beales, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u176	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! With all the observations made in technical terms, I would like to propose that we redefine that we go out on the third reading with article number one, with article number 11, with article 12 and there is a proposal, with the End positions, to make the right adjustments, and so vote in the third reading after a certain time. Today, there is a proposal to vote on the second reading and to go out on the third reading. Here's my offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! Replica, please, Ruslan Knyazevich, was called.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u178	Apparently, I didn't get it. I repeat my logic. Dear colleagues! What is it? The point is that for the first time in article 12, we are talking about financial control, we are introducing the possibility of declaring not only income but also expenditure. Yet, we have had such a situation that not only this Law on Corruption establishes an appropriate possibility of declaration. There is still the Law on State Service, the Law on the Status of the National Deputies, the Law on the Election of National Deputies and Deputies of All Levels, which also foresees the need for appropriate declarations. But it's about other declarations. Since this law is considered to be fundamental at this point, and it foresees in its text the need to amend other laws, I'm just going to say that we're going to have to work on it in such a way that we can reconcile all of these things so that we don't have a breakdown. At present, work on the Law on the Election of National Deputies is parallel, and there is another reference to it. And yesterday we passed the Public Information Act, which did not provide for such a declaration. And we're going to require a completely different form, even though we're now saying that we're changing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u179	I'm the idea that you just said I'm going to announce. I wrote it down. Dear colleagues! I was saying, well, you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, all right, dear fellows, I'm asking you, come on. Dear colleagues! It's a break, and we have to make decisions now. Ivan Vasilovich, do you have everything? Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u180	The committee is proposing a verdict.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u181	We're on our way. Dear colleagues! We're closing the question, it's pretty complicated, and let's be honest to say that by speaking up for the fact that the law is cooled down, we don't want it to be on the other hand, and on the one hand, we don't want it to be. And what's more, there was a lot of communication with the national MPs who expressed fears that if the law was adopted, it would not be applied to opposition representatives. Clearly, such fears have the right to life. But at the same time, let us not destroy the law that has been passed. First of all, the honourable colleagues, this law basically repeats those laws that we had adopted earlier in the applause, which we then cancelled, repeats to a large extent. Secondly, this law has been worked out and complied with by relevant international organizations. If there's something missing, I think it's groundless. He usually responds to what needs to be answered. And let us, my fellow Members, make a decision that is in line with article 123 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is, to adopt this bill in second reading, except for articles 1, 11, 12 and Transitional Positions, to send them to the Main Committee for further processing and to submit these articles for re-second reading. After we reread these articles, we will then determine the final adoption of the law. The proposal is regular and real. Yeah? So, dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption in Ukraine in the second reading, with the exception of articles 1, 11, 12 and Final Positions, which are sent to the Main Committee for further elaboration and the next submission of these articles for second reading. Do you understand the offer? Please vote. [[12:08:56]] For 330. Decision taken. Please put information on the faction board. Region Party – 181, "BUT – "Fatherhood" – 53, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 14, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-factional - 17. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 40 minutes. After the break, we will consider the 2010 Report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget. On full schedule, we'll be there for an hour and a half. Break now 30 minutes to 12 hours 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to come into the session room and we will continue our work. We are in the turn to consider the 2010 report on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget. The rapporteur is Minister of Finance of Ukraine Feder Alexiyovich Jaroshenko. Correspondents: Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs Baranov Valerij Aleksijovich and Head of the Chamber of Accounts Simonenko Valentinin Konstantinovich. I don't see the head of the calculus. I ask the secretariat to find out. It is, isn't it? Ladies and gentlemen, the following rules of procedure are proposed: in order to report to the Minister of Finance, he asks for up to 15 minutes; answers to questions up to 10 minutes; co-reports up to 5 and 5, I mean minutes; statements from factions, and then direct statements from national MPs, not less than 15 minutes, and the final word and decision-making. Is that a rule that you don't object to? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's see how it goes, maybe there's not enough MPs to discuss. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I have offered you the obvious, and we are moving on to the question. I invite you to the report of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Jaroshenko Fedor Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u183	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, I present to you today the Report on Implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine in 2010. First of all, I would like to stress that the 2010 budget was implemented under difficult economic and political conditions. In fact, only eight months were left for the implementation of the law adopted at the end of April. Moreover, budget implementation has been compounded by the burdensome situation in our country. The problems encountered in the 2010 budget were the full balance and uncontrolled state finances system, manual management, political colour, the lack of circulation costs for the current budget commitments, the lack of a budget adopted in the legislative term, the lack of transparency of the public finances system, the unbalanced pension fund, the system of gas accounting with Russia, the pressure on the budget of the ill-adopted benefit laws, the political instability, the multibillion-dollar debt burden, primarily on the account of non-timely compensation for the added value, and the ignored increase in social benefits, in accordance with the October 2009 Act on the establishment of a living minimum and minimum wage. The 2010 budget challenges were: the instability of the global economy, the expectation of a second wave of financial crisis, the unfavourable situation in global markets for Ukrainian exports. Under such start-up conditions, the budget required non-standard innovation solutions for government finance management. Applying this approach in 2010 allowed fire control to cease and start a transition to consistent, strategically balanced, automated government finance management. On this basis, a mission and a system of values aimed at the execution of the State’s main financial instrument have been defined with maximum proximity to real conditions. The successful implementation of the 2010 budgeted tasks has been made possible through the consistent coordinated work of the President and the government in implementing effective fiscal management, strengthening budgetary discipline, ensuring a rational distribution of expenditure and increasing transparency of public finances. As a result, in 2010, government budget revenues increased by 22.6 percent, implementation of the planned rate of 100.8 percent versus 85.5 percent in 2009. By a third, revenues to the general fund of the state budget had increased. The government budget is fully implemented, which is more than a quarter higher than it was in 2009. Fully funded protected articles of the sex and priority expenditure of the State Budget General Fund. The most significant social and social costs have increased, including social protection and social security, by 35 per cent, education and health care, spiritual and physical development, by 24 per cent, housing and utility, by 2.7 times, and by 17 per cent, economic activity, by 8 per cent. The government ensured that the country's government budget deficit was maintained within a defined threshold. Yes. The government budget deficit was 45.8 billion dollars or 4.2 percent of GDP in the 5 percent plan. Taking into account the fullness of the statutory fund of the state mortgage facility and the release of VAT to pay the value added tax, the deficit was 64.3 billion dollars, 5.9 percent of GDP, which was 11 percent less than the estimated estimate. In 2010, the government was able to change the trend towards uncontrolled accumulation of debt in 2008-2009. There has been a slowdown in government debt growth, a forecast of 29.9, a fact of 29.7. Loans were carried out in a balanced manner, resulting in substantially reduced borrowing rates and increased borrowing terms. Under extremely limited resources, the government has managed to ensure the very difficult tasks defined by President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of "Ukraine for the People". Most of all, it's about providing social protection for citizens. This was confirmed by the full implementation of Ukraine's minimum wage and minimum wage requirements, the gradual increase over the year of basic social standards per quarter, the increase in average wages by 20 per cent, the minimum pension by 22 per cent, the establishment of allowances for individual categories of budget workers, teachers, medics, library staff, clubs, museums. Overall, social spending increased by 25 percent against 2009, i.e. 43 billion dollars. The government has significantly strengthened the State support of the least protected population. This assistance to families with children, poor families, disabled children, and disabled children increased by 37 percent. Child care increased from 75 to 100 percent of the working - income minimum to 3 years. Child support to single mothers has increased by an average of 25 percent, depending on age. The social payout for a heroin mother has increased ninefold. Aid levels for disabled people from childhood have grown by an average of 22 percent. Social protection and pension costs for the Chernobyl population increased by a third. Full funding is provided for the deficit of the Pension Fund of Ukraine. The average minimum pension size, like the average pension, increased by 22 percent compared to 2009 and accounted for 734 bracelets and 1,152 bracelets respectively. Since August 1, 2010, the disabled of the Great Homeland War and the militants have received an additional increase in the minimum pension, an average of 21 percent. The state education budget increased by 20 percent in 2010, i.e. by almost 5 billion dollars. This has enabled students and students to increase their scholarship by almost 10 percent; and teachers to receive 20 percent of their salary. In 2010, expenditure on the consolidated health budget increased by 22 percent, more than 8 billion dollars. The State budget for medical care was 16 percent higher than it was in 2009. National science in 2010 received a total of 4.7 billion dollars from the State budget, 12 percent more than in 2009. The financing of culture and art has increased significantly, according to the budget, by 27 percent. In 2010, more than 150 billion dollars were added to the real economy, including almost 48 billion dollars -- VAT reimbursement, over 20 billion dollars in the stability fund for investment projects, almost 3.5 billion dollars in the socio-economic development of regions, and more than 10 billion dollars in government guarantees, etc. The financing of capital expenditure has doubled – 21 billion dollars. Coal support increased by 62 percent, accounting for 17 billion dollars. More than 500 million dollars were allocated to the development of the mineral raw material base, which is one and a half times that in 2009. More than 220 million dollars received projects of the most energy - intensive, metallurgical, industry through a credit-supplying mechanism. The cost of housing maintenance in 2010 was tripled to 574 million dollars. For the first time in 2010, State support was provided for the construction of affordable housing. The financing of housing for military personnel has increased 2.6 times. As a result of the increase in funding for Euro - 2012, 2.7 times the backlog of previous years in the preparation of Euro objects has been offset. The successful implementation of the State programme for the preparation and implementation of the Euro-2012 is not only a positive image of Ukraine as a European state, but also an expansion of transport, tourism infrastructure, the creation of conditions for the intensive development of domestic sport, an additional impetus to structural changes in Ukraine's economy. Nearly 13 billion dollars are spent on developing a transport-road complex. That's 27 percent higher than in 2009. As a result of the effective management of state finances and the successful implementation of the tasks set out in the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme, positive economic dynamics have been restored. Real GDP has increased by 4.2 percent, one of the highest among European countries. The nominal GDP is 18.9 percent, the production volume of industrial production is 11 percent, the consumer price index is 9.1 percent, the wages are 20.1 percent. In addition, the renewed trust of international financial organizations and foreign partners, the release of Eurobonds in 2010 confirmed Ukraine's return to Eurobonds markets, demonstrated the openness of international debt markets for the Ukrainian State and the full confidence of the world's largest financial investors in Ukraine. The amount of financial resources for local budgets, I want to emphasize, has increased by almost 25 billion dollars, or 19 percent compared to 2009. More than 30 percent of the local budget allocation has been increased. Investment development in the regions was targeted at 3.4 billion dollars, 4 times higher than in 2009. By improving the financial security of local budgets by nearly 29 percent, that is, by 5.9 billion dollars, the need for local budgets in loans from a single treasury account has been reduced. Thus, the results of the implementation of Ukraine’s State Budget in 2010 were tangible to the improvement of the lives of every citizen of our country. At the same time, this budget not only ensured the basic current tasks, but also contributed to creating a solid foundation for creating an effective functioning of the public finance system in the long run. By consolidating the success achieved in 2010 of stabilizing the economic situation and implementing effective structural reforms in 2011 we entered with a realistic and balanced budget. The 2011 budget continues the systematic and phased implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme "Affordable Society". A competitive economy. Effective State", developed under the leadership of President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, taking into account the above, the Government of Ukraine proposes to approve the 2010 report on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. I'm asking you to sign up for a question with the Minister of Finance. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Yes, the People's Deputy of Litvinov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u185	I'd like to take the word of Pecklusenko to Alexander Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u186	Please, Pecktail microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u187	Dear Fedor Alekseevich, I think that both our colleagues and most voters can rightly ask: "If everything is so good in the budget, why is it so difficult in life?".. That is why we must be realistic. Realistically looking at these things. [[Congrats]] And we, the Government and power, must talk about it. Most importantly, what you have to say is that you've got a country, a bankret budget, you've managed from minus 100 billion, you've managed to stabilize the situation. And today, on the basis of this stable tax and budgetary situation, we are moving forward progressively. Therefore, I ask you to focus once again on the budget gap that ours have reached.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u188	Complete the question, please. Do you have everything? It's all right, isn't Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u189	So thank you for asking. In fact, I first called what problems and challenges we had in 2010. In fact, I didn't get your attention because I'm giving you this information, where I told you all that in 2009, we got a deficit, a hidden government budget deficit of over 180 billion dollars. And the government has been working to balance absolutely all the financial instruments that we have in the state in order to have a steady development of our economy and the result of this activity, and I've told you that we have an increase today, a real increase in nominal GDP -- 4.2, and we've made nominal GDP of 1 trillion 85 billion dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u190	Alexander Skibinetsky, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u191	Please pass the word to Antonini Boluri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u192	Please, Antonina Bolura's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u193	Dear Fedor Alexiovich! First of all, I wanted to say that all these positives, growths, I think it's wrong to brag about it because we're comparing it to a crisis period. By 2009, it was a very serious, very difficult year, and we've overcome the crisis, both economically and financially. You just said that all social security is improved. But the budget analysis suggests that social articles are underfunded by 2.4 billion. So why do we have these pluses? The total, I say again, shows that underfunding for this article costs
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u194	So thank you for asking. So I put in some good points to understand that we had a balanced system, we had a financial crisis, and in 2010, we didn't get out of the crisis, we were expecting a second moment of financial crisis. And today, what challenges, you know, can be in a global society, no one can say. We have today the example of Japan, when such events took place in financial markets today, we do not know yet. How it behaves and how it will affect Ukraine. That's why. I want to say that the government itself is not satisfied with its results. But we say what we have achieved today. And the results that I told you we have the pluses, they allowed us to provide 100 percent of the funding for all the socially protected expenses, here. If you have any doubts, please come, I'll show you some more.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u195	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u196	Dear Fedor Alekseevich, respected colleagues, well, objectivity for the sake of, must be said that indeed the budget year was an unusual one. An unprecedented fact of world practice when the previous Government refused to submit a budget to Parliament in order to manage and use finance manually for its own purposes. You've formed a budget with wheels. In addition, the budget was balanced and it practically pulled the country out of pre-defoult condition. 15 per cent of the budget deficit is almost on the backdrop of the 2009 deficit and you have managed to virtually reduce the budget deficit to 5 per cent. The budget was almost implemented. I have a question: would you please tell me, this is the downward trend in the budget deficit that will be prolonged this year? Is that Minfina's strategic policy?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u197	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Yes, it is indeed the strategic position of the President, the government and me as ministers in balancing public finances. Our nation should not live in debt. She must earn money and finance her needs at the expense of her own money. So in the 2011 budget, you know we have a projected budget deficit of 3.5 percent, for 2012 we're going to make a supply of 2.5 percent and 2013 is going to be 2 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u198	Yes. Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u199	Mr. Secretary, let me ask you a few questions as to how long I'll be there. See, according to the Income Part Budget, 95.5 per cent and 93.5 per cent, respectively. This is because the increase in gross national product was higher than planned. So we can still boldly throw 1.5 percent out of there and out of there, the real thing would be 93 percent and 92 percent. 94 and 92, if only there was more growth. So the question is, how can you explain this, well, there has to be some explanation why? With the budget becoming more than budgeted and the budget being cut. The second question is that of construction. You say there are some successes, but at the expense of Euro-2012. It actually went down by 5 percent anyway. And third, local budgets. 50 percent of local budgets are transfers. In fact, they don't exist. This is not exactly the right position for Europeans.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u200	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u201	It's about the first question. In fact, there are a lot of different methodologies, and I think that the head of the Accounting Chamber, Simonenko Valentin Kostinovich, is going to express his research that he did in the accounting audit of the 2010 State Budget Implementation Report. But I want to tell you that I've told you all the reasons and all the calculations on the budget committee. And we have, taking into account the tax compensation for the added value of domestic government debt in the amount of 16.4 billion dollars, the budget's income was 100.8 percent. Regarding the growth of the building industry. Yes, indeed, we, the government, have worked hard and we have tried to improve the work significantly in 2010, from the first to work in the government, in the construction sector. We didn't get out in 2010, so to speak, to achieve positive results, but I want to tell you, by January of the month, what the government has done has allowed us to have a 6 percent increase in construction since January. Regarding inter-budget transfers. We had a position and a policy in 2010 -- giving more authority to local budgets. And that kind of policy, it goes on and on in 2011, and on and on. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u202	John Kirilenko refers the right to a question to the national deputy Schlemk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u203	Mr. Minister, not only does the cheeks last time, but the breasts also dissipate government officials who report for 2010. GDP is rising, the financial basket is filling. Even inflation was suppressed, which the people do not believe at all. So it's not surprising when I read in the 2010 Debt Implementation Report: the government debt and guaranteed debt amounted to 317 billion dollars by the end of 2009. Planned for 2010 315. In fact, it increased by 115 billion and reached 432 billion dollars by the end of the year. Page 229 of this report. I ask the question: Can this be considered a balanced debt policy of this government, as noted in the report? And why do you keep criticizing your predecessors? And by the way, the budget talked about by one of the predecessors, we were ready to accept it, but most of it didn't accept it, where the numbers were completely different.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u204	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you, we don't blow our cheeks, we don't blow our chests, and we just tell society about the state of affairs of the government, and people need to know. Now for the second question. I want to point out, I didn't criticize the previous government today, and you heard me, and let's say from the Peckleshank faction, I asked you to remind me, but I just told you what problems and challenges existed in the formation of the state budget and in the execution of the government budget. Now it's about the debt. Listen carefully. So what we have is the nominal. And if we're doing what percentage of GDP is going to go down. So this is, let's say, we have to look deeper at the numbers. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u205	Time's up. Feder Alexiyovich, please sit down. I invite the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Baranov Valeriyovich, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u206	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Budget Committee at its March 1st meeting, with the participation of representatives of the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance, reviewed the report. Among the positive steps taken in the implementation of the budget last year are the following: firstly, unlike the previous main macroeconomic indicators of economic and social development, 2010 was better compared to the corresponding forecasting indicators, and they indicate a gradual growth in the economy and are significantly different from the 2009 indicators, where the effects of the economic and financial crisis were most evident. Secondly, the state of income management of the budget in 2010 improved significantly compared to last year. Thirdly, there is a significant increase in social security in 2010. So the average monthly living minimum per person grew against the same figures last year by more than a third and the minimum wage and minimum pension by almost 40 percent. In general, it should be borne in mind that the government has managed to stabilise the socio-economic situation in Ukraine in some way by abandoning past population and by ensuring the reality of the budget indicators. In 2010, both governance and other areas of life began to reform. Reforms can and should be criticized, but they have finally begun. At the same time, last year's budget implementation has left a number of issues specific to previous years that need to be addressed, especially with regard to pension sources of budget replenishment. Yes, the amount of tax debt remains significant -- over 16 billion dollars, increased income losses from the tax system and amounted to 38 billion dollars. The government has not been able to solve the systemic and causal problems that hinder the development of the economy of all past years: there remains a negative practice of filling the budget for the account, so-called, tax and congregation overpayments, the government has added resources without statutory restrictions, failed to bring the employee's salary to a minimum wage, a ratio of 65 percent of which is today. At a low level, the financial discipline of budget managers remains, as evidenced by the large amounts of receivables and creditors’ debt. The government has not yet managed to avoid the policy of traditional hard centralisation of state finances. Yes, the income of the local budgets is only a quarter of the budget. The share of transfers from the state budget to local budgets has nearly doubled since 2001. So far, there are no barriers to the region’s investment attractiveness. The volume of the budget's income, the development of the local budget's income has dropped by 2.5 times since 2007. Individual territorial communities have no income for their development at all. The corresponding expenditure of the local budgets is mainly aimed at maintaining the socio-cultural sphere, while the share of self-government expenditure decreases annually. In particular, only 3 percent of the budget is allocated to housing and utilities. We believe that the existing state budget subsidy system is ineffective. It is necessary to break the system of benefits and subsidies to the population and move on to address aid. Communication tariffs have never been paid off. The Naccomy, designed for this purpose, never began its work. In view of the noted issue of local budgets and inter-budget relations, the work of the Committee on Budgets is at the forefront. We are preparing our proposals to the government when these urgent problems are resolved and we find support. In general, the ways in which some of these problems are addressed are defined in the budget committee's draft Ordinance on the Implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the 2010 State Budget, which is given to you. Thus, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Supreme Council Regulation No. 8104-d, approving the government's 2010 State Budget Implementation Report. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u207	Yes, dear fellows, if there is a question to the committee head, please sign in. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? National Deputy Korge, please. It's a faction of the region.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u208	I ask you to give the floor to the deputy of Hell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u209	Alexander Paklusenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u210	The distinguished rapporteur, above all to you, is a person who has long been associated with the budget. As you assess the work of the Government in implementing the 2010 budget. You're personal. Second. You know that the budget committee is not just meant to budget, it is still called upon to monitor budget implementation. And this is based on the 2010 experience, what are you going to do in 2011 on control? And you know, yesterday, the President gave the Cabinet of Ministers five billion dollars to address urgent issues. I hope that you, as chairman of the budget committee, are already involved in this and remember: the village, roads, gas, water, as well as the barrier bridges. Please confirm this wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u211	Thank you, Alexander Nikolaevich. If this money is found in the State budget, we will actively engage and naturally all the problems that our deputies mark, we will receive from the Territory on social and economic development, and we will work with the Ministry of Finance to take the best possible account. Second. The implementation of the 2010 budget -- I have already said in my statement -- I see it as positive because the financial and economic situation has been stabilized and the results of the Government's January-month work have shown 8 per cent of the increase in budget income. [[and personal question to me]] This inspires hope and, if the Government continues to work, if systemic reforms begin, we have a future, and I am pleased that there has been an end to the populism that has destroyed our State for 20 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u212	Vladimir Jaroschuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u213	Please pass the word to Chechev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u214	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u215	Dear Valery Aleksevich, well, you've confirmed the same thing. and Mr. Pecklusenko's question confirmed that indeed, despite the fact that the 2010 budget had been made from wheels, but it had been very balanced, the budget had been stabilization and the budget which had provided an opportunity for economic growth. You see, after this balanced budget has been implemented, we have made a site that has been able to increase economic growth for the first two to three months and not through loans to get $5 billion, not through credits that were paid below 30 per cent, but to borrow loans in 2009, but to make 5 billion money that could go to social services. Social issues, social issues, etc. You consider it appropriate to make such a correction this year as a result of the second quarter, the third when additional funding is received.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u216	Well, you remember that when we adopted the budget, we had these points where we wrote that, as a result of the socio-economic development of the State, it could be revised and taken into account those problems that were not reflected in the budget. I am also aware of the problems related to children of war and the problems related to social programmes that cannot be fully funded today. Therefore, if the budget is increasing its income today, it is doing a good job to comply with the orders that voters have given to the President and to each of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u217	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u218	Vasil Kravczuk, please give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u219	Vasil Kravchuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u220	Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Dear Valery Alexiyovich, as a member of the party that is in favor of the peasants, please tell us. Funding fell to agriculture in 2010 22 times compared to funding in 2008. An earthquake occurred in Japan, resulting in food shortages. In Ukraine, instead of an earthquake, there is a government of Azarov, and there is a shortage of food such as Greek, flour, flour, oil. I have a question: Please tell me, from the Minister's words, how did life improve in 2010 for peasants, namely, how much funding has been made for the agricultural sector, and how do you appreciate the financing of agriculture in 2010? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u221	According to the figures that we have with you in the budget, the financing of the APC is increasing from 2009. I just want to give you one figure: 50 million were planned to support the construction of animal farms, and the government has allocated 500. Therefore, the problems are known and you are right to know that they exist today, but it cannot be said that the financing of the APC has deteriorated compared to the previous years.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u222	Yeah, time's up, time's up. Valerius Alexiyovich, sit down. Please don't scream. I'll remind you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Quieter, quieter, quieter, in 2007-2008, proposals were made for changes to the Rural Finance Act, and somehow I didn't see that kind of pathetic vote, so calmly. Take it easy. Yes, dear fellows, now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please, well, I beg of you. Please. I invite you to report to the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonek Valentino Kostinović.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u223	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, according to the current legislation, the Court of Auditors conducted an examination of the State Budget Act 2010 and they are distributed to you. That's why I'm going to stop. Only on the main issues of budget policy last year, which we believe are creating risks and problems that accompany the budget this year. First. Ignorance of the provisions of the Constitution, the Budget Code and other laws, the preparation, approval, implementation and performance reports of the State budget has led to the following. I recall that, in 2010, the country in the systemic crisis lived for four months, not under the State Budget Act, but according to the Government's approved order, most of which went against the rules of the Budget Code. The State budget currently under consideration was approved last April, and in reality, taking into account all the necessary procedures, the law has only been in force since the second half of last year. For deliberate reasons, the State Budget Act for the current year has been adopted with a gross violation of deadlines, procedures and not as a balanced document, but as a new day's gift under the tree. This leads to the loss of the budget for the country's core financial document, the concentrated expression of the economic policy of the State and the fact that it becomes an essential revenue and expenditure fund for the budget. Second, it has become customary for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to delegate part of its mandate in the budgetary process of the Cabinet of Ministers. As a result, the Government has been given the opportunity to adjust the critical parameters of the State budget, such as the limit of deficit and public debt, at its discretion. Government borrowings, as well as changes in government spending, which was not much, amounted to 20 billion dollars, resulting in a resurgence of manual budget management, and, above all, a review of one of the most important functions of the Supreme Council. Thirdly, the current pattern of budget allocation makes it impossible to achieve sustainable economic development as a matter of priority. Judge yourself: this year, a third of the income budget is required to service and repay debt obligations. About forty billion bracelets to prepare for the Euro-2012 and another 30 billion to assist the Pension Fund. So three directions are half of the State budget. Less than half of the budget remains to provide social benefits, support for economic development, and public functions. And that's painful and small. The situation is archival, but there are reserves. Question of cost optimization. Every third of the budget bracelet is spent either in violation of existing legislation or ineffectively. I stress that it is not effective when budget funds are channelled, not where they are needed, but where they are needed. According to our calculations, it's about 30 billion bracelets. Therefore, without the introduction of strategic financial planning tools and improved budgetary arrangements, which should ensure the practical implementation of the policy and purposeful management of economic processes, it is simply not possible to create an effective, budgetary and financial architecture. There is a need to review all budget programmes without exception, and only a few, 774. And define a clear criterion for the efficiency of budget use. In our view, this is the primary task of Minfin, and of the Cabinet of Ministers. Fifth. Sustainable trends in excessive centralization of budgetary management have had a negative impact on social and economic development. We need to reduce the accumulation of budgetary resources in the public budget, only then can the regions choke freely. In conclusion, the current economic situation in the country represents a new opportunity to undertake vital and necessary reforms already planned and initiated in the country. And that's a chance we all have to take. It's in your hands, distinguished people's deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u224	Yes, distinguished national deputies, please sign up for a question to the head of the Court of Auditors. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u225	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Valentina Konstantinovich! Here today, the minister of finance reported that things had grown, things had increased, and so on. But he did not say the only thing about how much better a simple person’s life was. What can be said of those programs that referred to our working people by name, as they were in your view carried out by a valid government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u226	Dear People's Deputies, we specifically gave you a week ago our conclusions on the implementation of the budget, where it is clearly stated that neither the income nor expenditure of the State budget has been implemented. I think that says either everything or very much. Moreover, we had to decipher for every article that had to be given. So make your own conclusions. We provide the facts on which you need to draw concrete conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u227	Oleg Lazko, faction, I'm sorry, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u228	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, a while ago, I was speaking and I called for Valentin Simonek to resign. Today, Reverend Valentina Konstantinovich, I apologize for this offer and admit that I was wrong. Because in your speech today, you have demonstrated that you are the only official in power today who may be telling the truth. You've just completely corrected what the Minister of Finance has just told us. The Minister of Finance tells us that he is informing society about the financial situation. Actually, Mr. Jaroshenko, you're disinforming society about the situation in the country. American publications already say we're on the verge of default. And you're telling us how good it is. You're commending me for raising social standards. You can tell young people who are out of work, how many jobs you have created in the country last year, how many people have received jobs and wages. Because you talk about how much you love retirees. And who will take care of young people who have no wages or jobs?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u229	I understand it was support. Yeah, there was no question. There was support. Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u230	Please pass the word to Suhma Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u231	Jaroslav Suhi, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u232	Thank you. Dear Valentin Konstantinovich, Ukraine's state budget, among other tasks, has one or more of the most important tasks in our post-crisis time, the goal. This is support for basic, basic economic sectors. And that's what you're talking about. There will be no budgetary motivation -- no growth in the economy, no budget revenues. Remember, in 2003, we talked about this in this room. State investment was two and a half times the social expenditure, and by 2005 it had barely reached 40 percent. In 2001, 9 percent of the pension fund, now 20 percent. Please tell me how it is controlled by your information, which is, in fact, the most authoritative of today's controls, the expenditure from the state budget on investment programs. Do these costs work for the economy, or do they work for the economy, or do they work elsewhere?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u233	Unfortunately, there is little investment to raise our economy. We therefore need to be guided, above all, by the adoption of the budget for the reduction of the spending portion of the consumption budget. With regard to specific controls, we have a direct treaty with the Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Europe, with the World Bank, where we primarily control what is said to be credits that we receive and, in other words, we tell you about all of this. Unfortunately, the system of managing credit money is worth, well, not what is zero, but what is negative is at a negative level. Therefore, the system of organization, the system of responsibility, must be strengthened. The Supreme Council, and especially the committees that deal with these issues, should not engage in observation, but should carry out specific activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u234	Please, the microphone. Yes, thank you. Time's up. Valentino Costinovich, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now move on to this issue. I'd like to sign up for the factions first. An entry is being made for the representation of factions and groups. Yes, and now I'm asking you to record the national MPs. Please report to the National Deputies. Thus, dear colleagues, 30 minutes to discuss the matter. I propose that we continue the morning session for 15 minutes so that we can complete this consideration by 14 hours 15 minutes. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party, will then perform by Alexander Czervolenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u235	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to suggest that I refrain from making a big assessment of the government's work, and not just from the government, because it kind of reminds us that you just know this kind of publicistic and graphic effort to recreate your own vision. Because there's no measuring scale to put three points, three with a minus, two with a plus, and so on. That's what any scientist knows about the original mix-up, because to bet points, you have to know where 100 points are. What to compare with 2009 or 2007 or 1913. Only when we know the stem score can we determine the other points. That's the first one. And that's why I think we need to rely on real numbers that we can measure. There's a problem and there's a serious problem about what the minister of finance was talking about, and about what happened to that government, and three governments back there. This is about the ratio of income and expenditure. Well, the budget deficit is shrinking -- it's a positive trend, it's a positive dynamic, and I think everyone agrees with it, and no one is denying it. But what is the difference between the expense and the income? Everyone knows about the expenses because they are transparent, because everyone knows there are almost 14 million pensioners, everyone needs to pay pensions; everyone knows the laws that have been passed for many years in the Supreme Council, they need to be implemented in the expense plan, first of all social spending. And what about the revenue side, where does this budget come from, where the income section, 60 percent of the economy, or 70 percent of the economy? In any case, no one says that less than 40 percent is in the shadow sector. So it turns out that the income is only taken from part of the real economy at a time when they're making much more money, and the cost is taken by 100 percent. It seems to me that both this government and the next governments have to pay attention to this because it's never going to be a strong and ideal budget, at least an optimal budget, if you have 60, 50 or even 70 percent of that revenue. And I think in this case, the government has to be the initiator of all things related to tax avoidance, tax minimization, offshore zones, which everyone is saying, because billions of dollars, billions of dollars, and everybody knows about this, don't go into the income part of the budget, and that's why only those who are on the surface, the expenses go to those who are defined, and they're all transparent, and 30 percent and 40 percent don't make their contribution, their contribution to the formation of the state budget. I don't have time, unfortunately, but I think in the 2011 budget you have everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u236	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u237	To do, Your Honor Minister, the initiation of things that would not allow us to have almost the largest shadow sector in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u238	Alexander Černvolenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Vladislav Lukyanov from the faction of the Party of Regions will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u239	Dear friends, we must acknowledge that we have very serious problems in our country with the state budget, with its development, foundation and execution. And I would like to point out that this year, unfortunately, these problems have not improved, but have worsened. This is 2010 and the 2011 trend is maintained. If we take the position of a budget committee, we have considered on the committee a dispute that is to some extent between the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors. Nevertheless, the Court of Auditors says 95 percent of income execution, which means that the Ministry of Finance is 100.6 percent. The Budget Committee, after considering all of this in its ruling, called a different figure of 94.5 percent, or even less than the Court of Auditors. I want to tell you that on the Committee of Budgets, most of them are a Party of Regions, so you can't say that this is under the influence of opposition. So the budget for this year wasn't implemented both by income and by expenditure, and that's given that we spent 18 billion dollars in July with you for the first time in the history of Ukraine, and we haven't implemented this already adjusted budget. Well, I want to say in advance that when this budget was accepted, we're both in the budget committee meeting, and in the hall, it's not exactly in the hall, because it's been accepted without discussion in the hall, and yet we've warned that it's unwarranted, and it's worth paying attention to. This was noted in the execution process, but not enough. So we're saying again, assuming that it was designed in an unwarranted way. You accepted it without proper grounds, honored by the majority of the Supreme Council, that is, you were neglectful of your duties as deputies, as the opposition warned of. Budget deficit. The budget deficit rose by 18 percent, the government debt increased to over 325 billion dollars, that is, 40 percent, the government debt service accounted for 14 percent of the current, that budget that year. So we're talking about a serious financial crisis and these American publications that talk about defolt, we're serious about it. We should pay attention to that. And another unfortunate detail is the total disregard for local budgets. Because we're actually them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u240	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u241	On account of the fact that we have set an absolute non-European standard for the relationship between the State budget and the locals, by sharply reducing the needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u242	Thank you. Viacheslav Lukyanov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up will be Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u243	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We have now heard the report of the Minister of Finance and the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs very carefully. And the main thing is not even that the budget was not what was done, but a little overrun by almost 1 percent. What's important is how difficult this budget has been. What's very important is that we can compare those percentages of the fall of the Ukrainian economy during the last team and the break-up situation, the shift from falling to the growth that was made possible by a new team led by Mikla Janović Azarov. I want to say that I hear a lot of different allegations from the patriots, but I want to say that more than none of you have done for Azarov for this country positive, useful -- what our nation raises, what gives rise to our state: raising the economy, restoring the state. And all of this is a major achievement last year. Last year, we managed to keep the country on the verge of the actual bankruptcy that your team started. That's who he works for. Did the last team work? And there's a difference between a new team that doesn't complain about all the complications, but takes the sleeves -- and works, reaches the results. I'll give you a few digits. First, GDP growth: minus 15 percent in 2009, plus 4.2 percent in 2010. Is that enough? No, that's not enough, that's not enough. But we're working, and we're changing the situation for the better. We see that the trends that we're betting on are positive. We can see that the inflation rate was less than that of the previous year. If the inflation rate in 2009 was 13 percent, the inflation rate in 2010 was 9 percent according to the same calculation methodology. We see that the growth rate of gross national product for 2010 is also higher, with growth. And we can compare: the budget had a figure of 3.7 percent, it was planned; it got 4.2 percent. This says that the government does not make populist statements – the government makes very restrictive statements. And what he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u244	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u245	And what the government declares, it does. So I propose that we all unite and adjust to work to raise our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u246	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, in order to understand what the budget year was like, and we've heard at least three different versions of our lives in Ukraine: the government version, the committee version and the version of the Court of Auditors -- and this is version, well, at least three different countries: one -- fantastically rich and happy, the other -- not very rich and unhappy, but the third -- very unhappy and very poor. I don't want to debate numbers that don't stick to these three structures. I think that the national wisdom that we can rephrase here is more appropriate: if we want to know what the 2010 budget was, we have to ask our citizens. I'm quoting a generalized sociological research into the moods of citizens that we did in January and February 2010. Sociologists asked: How did your material situation change in 2010? The decline was 61.7, with a change of 33.3, an improvement of 4 percent. Here's the real situation that happened in the 2010 budget year. I, by the way, today is a joke, and I said seriously that I'm interested right now, and I want to meet people who have improved in the last year, so this is a famous American magazine, when I put in a list of billionaires, he was happy to inform that in Ukraine and 2010, three new billionaires were added. That is, life improves for some of the wealthy. And the tragedy is that the most important thing that the government would have to do is eliminate the gap between the rich and the poor. This gap is increasing because the number of billionaires is increasing and the number of these people is increasing. Again, I quote you from a study that says they're missing money even for food -- 11.2. In the 21st century, 11.2 in Ukraine is not enough money for food. So what are we talking about socio-economic parameters? Today, the government's price policy has led to the fact that for the first time in history, I'm back in the analysis of this year's research, 97.5 percent think that price increases are happening at a rate that is a key threat to their lives. That is, 97.5 wakes up in the morning with the thought of how much more will the prices increase first of all, of daily life, of food. Is that not an estimate of how the government worked in 2010? A very important thing is that local self - government in the budget process has actually been eliminated. Now go to the region, ask "Regions" – Party of Regions, or "Block of Lithuania," or "BUT" or "Our Ukraine": is there a possibility of local self-government to carry out its own budgetary policy? Of course not. So you have to go to the officials, bow down to them deeply, so you have to bring a bag or some argument to knock out the basics. Where did the total closure of schools and hospitals come from? What kind of reform is this? The total closure of schools and hospitals is that there are no funds to maintain schools and hospitals. So, dear fellows, I am. We can't fix 2010 already. I think if we're going to listen to information about the 2011 quarter, then we have to make really adequate budget changes to at least minimally encourage people to inflation, at least index pensions and inflationary wages and at least help people. Then we'll say that the government at least partially responded to the socio-economic situation that our citizens faced. So, friends, we need to help a government that, unfortunately, failed to cope with the socio-economic year 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u248	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Next up is Perstenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u249	Peter Cibenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! We all remember well when, and this was April 27, in which conditions, the whole of Ukraine saw it, and after which the State Budget for Ukraine was adopted for 2010. And the question is, could they have been taught? In view of these problems, are the tasks facing the 2010 budget completed? So the faction of Ukraine's Company concludes that most of the 2010 budget tasks, especially the strengthening of social protection for the most vulnerable, were not carried out. But it would be unfair not to notice a number of benefits compared to the 2009 budget, which were: a slightly higher level of pension insurance, and practically twice as much payout as the various categories of participants in the war before Victory Day, was able to restore the budget programme for the acquisition of cars for war invalids and black people with disabilities, a programme that did not work in 2009. For the first time, I emphasize, for the first time in all post-Radians, the National Budget of Ukraine has provided 200 million dollars for housing for people with disabilities in the Great War of Homeland, for the first time in 20 years. So, I emphasize, some of the positives in this budget were, although, I emphasize, the main social protection tasks of the population were not done after all. So I would like to stress once again the conclusion that the faction makes for itself. In the 2010 budget, there were some trends in improving social protection for the most important population groups that we had hoped would find their extension and expansion in the 2011 budget. Unfortunately, though, these expectations of the most vulnerable segments of the population of Ukraine have not been fulfilled. The government has embarked on extremely unpopular reforms and, most importantly, that the burden of these reforms has been placed on the shoulders of Ukrainian citizens. What do I mean? It's also a noticeable increase in prices and housing and utility tariffs, and it's also that the government initiated an increase in the retirement age already in 2011, and it's also an initiative of the government to look at the reduction, and in the future, the elimination of the social benefits system for the most vulnerable groups. So, dear colleagues, I would very much like the representatives of the government who are present today, when discussing the implementation of the 2010 budget, to draw conclusions and not repeat those errors in the implementation of the 2011 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u250	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u251	Because I hope that the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the implementation of the 2011 budget, which was adopted on time, will ask much more harshly with all the consequences that come from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u252	Yes, Prestenko is passing Lechchenko on to prepare Ko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u253	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Montenegro. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! An extremely complex orange inheritance really did take place. They settled in the pen and the good news that they had gone into political nonexistence. The minister's report called optimistic figures, he said everything had increased sharply -- income and expenditure, average wage by 20 percent, average pension by 22. There has been a significant improvement in the support of education and health care, and housing and utilities, and the inflation index is low. There's certainly a good thing. But the voters can hear us. They wonder if in the real world there is a president, a government, a national MP? In practice, the painting is quite different. The decline in the agro-industry complex continues, and the industrial enterprises that were standing by the oranges are still standing right now. Mass unemployment continues, especially in the countryside. Debt on wages is astronomical to a simple person’s grief. The situation in education is also complex. Schools are closing, costs are insufficient. The medical situation. For food and medical supplies, a small amount of money is spent worse than in prison. Housing says that the cost has tripled, but it's in decline. The same applies to the road network. And you have to talk about funding the basic level of local self-government -- just for nine months. Prices and tariffs grow like mushrooms in favorable weather. They eat the modest salary increases, the pensions that have been mentioned. The people continue to survive, they are sick, they do not eat, they die. And the question is, has there been a slight increase in the 2010 standard of living? No, it's not. Indeed, billionaires have accumulated billions of dollars and are taking the lead in the world. Conclusion. Despite winning relationships, like, "life has gotten better, life has gotten funnier," ordinary people are living very badly. So far, orange capitalism is no different from regional capitalism. A large capital, both then and now, benefits from parasites on a working man’s mountain. That is, the huge problems in the working people, not from the names of presidents, ministers, national deputies of Ukraine, but from capitalism as an anti-human system of social relations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u254	Vladimir Aleksandrovich, we should have thanked those who supported you from the friendly factions. The koval is passing it on to Zebrovski. Please, Paul Ivanovich. Gnatkevitch is passing it on. Get ready for Kirilchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u255	After some of my colleagues have spoken, an old anecdote is mentioned when two friends meet, one says, "What's up, Santa?" He says, "Wow, that's terrible." He says, "Michael, life is like a zebra. First black, then white." After a while they meet, they say, "Well, Mikolo, how?" He says, "Do you remember telling me about the zebra? It was white yesterday and blacker today." In fact, there's nothing to boast about today, because what the past government has actually been critical of today, and there's something to criticize, is quite adequately repeated in the 2010 budget. Did you get credit in 2009? Got it. But in 2010 they took even more. Was there manual control in 2009? There was. And in 2010, there was manual control. What's not to be understood is that it's even more hypertrophy in the 2010 budget. Today, sociology was cited for how people got better or worse. And the key question is not us, not the Supreme Council, who report to the government, but people who openly say that with every day life, unfortunately, it's getting worse. Today, it can be said that since we are there in the majority or half of the majority, this should be the reason why the government should be praised. Today we have to say that the government has not implemented a budget, for the first time in the last two years there has been a budget sequester. We're not paying attention to that? No, it's not. For the first time today, for how many years, and in the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council actually passed the government over to the budget law. Do what you want with the state finances. He doesn't do any control functions. And what, it was only in 2010? No, it's not. In 2011, the same thing was given away by all government finances and do what you want. And then we're groaning, the crying of Jaroslavna on the wall that made people's lives worse. Friends, to this day the majority that is, must shoulder the full responsibility of the government for the disorder that is now in the state with the state’s finances. Dear friends, you might actually be able to speak if reforms were initiated. The decline is now reported from 2009 to 15 percent. And that's true. The biggest fall. But what they did in 2010 and what they did in 2011 to change this trend. We have one thousand enterprises today that give us 75 percent of the budget. In fact, there is no such small and medium-sized business at all. Is there an allocation of funds, or is it seeing that people are self-employed, small and small businesses begin to develop and become a stabilizer, a platform for Ukraine’s economy? No, it's not. And this is a key minus government. And I think we don't have to approve this report today, because in fact neither humans nor the economy have experienced any improvement, and nothing good is unfortunately not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u256	Eugene Kirilchuk. For him to prepare, Matthew passes on to Gordienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u257	Eugene Kirilchuk, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Honorable National MPs, honourable voters, as you have experienced from this discussion, which is already taking place, which answers one question today. Who in Kiev last year got to live better? I think those three billionaires, twenty more families and individual officials. The rest of us just got worse. And it's not just worse, it's much worse. And this whole information statement by the finance minister, it could be brought to one denominator. How much better you would be and higher prices for gas, electricity, food, you would have a budget overhaul. But let's go back to the specifics: how much more milk is produced, and how much more meat is produced, and how much more coal is produced, the metal? So this would be a real picture of whether the gross domestic product has increased by increasing price policy or by increasing the production of finished natural products. And as for natural products, I could tell you that food prices have exceeded any base: milk -- 33 percent, flour -- by 70 percent, cabbage -- by 133, potatoes by 100, butter by 40, Greek by 40, so above the Chinese borders. And now, in a year, less than 100,000 tons of bread, 219,000 tons of vegetables, 261,000 tons of potatoes, and we're already buying potatoes in Egypt, oil in Belarus, and Greek in China. From here on out, who is better living in Kiev? I think hidden inflation, and that's how it is, so you don't pay the index to retirees, disabled people, multi-child families or anything else, you're going to show it's in there somewhere within 9. You make a pure mathematical ratio: 30 percent gas, 25 percent electricity, 30 percent food. So what's the average inflation going to be? More than 20, and so it is. It was pie.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u258	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u259	The question was wisely asked. After the first quarter, we have to go back to the State Budget this year and fix all the screwups that the government and the minister of finance have allowed. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u260	Sergey Gordijenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u261	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u262	Please invite the deputies to the session room. We'll make our decisions right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u263	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Each government that reports on this rostrum tells us that it is better than the previous one. And I just heard my colleague tell you how much the cabbage had grown, and I can remind you that the big Soviet economy was giving you 20 copies of bread and I can tell you the whole gamma, and how much you were eating per soul. But you don’t want to hear it, and you probably don’t want to hear it. But let's speak professionally and in principle. First. All those who speak here do not, including the government, the analysis, speak much about success, and no one speaks of faults and reasons. What makes people worse is why hospitals and social institutions are closed. Let's do that. Income budget of 96.5 per cent. What reasons did we fail to fulfill why we do not have an interested conversation in this segment? No one wants to. By sight. Of course, 93 percent, and there is no area where the expenditure would have been made by 100 percent. Let's be honest with people, because this affects the consumer market. We were going to cut the debt on wages to 0.5 to 0.6 billion, and it's not just reduced, but it's increased to about one and a half billion today. Let's be very serious and interested in the context of the budget and think about how we can do that today the level of a specialist in the budget sphere is already equal to the salary of a technical worker and that's a huge problem because you know we're talking about corruption, but we're creating it ourselves. The debt we owe us grew by 5 billion and 500 million. Why aren't we talking about this? But look, let's see, 250 million in the 2010 government budget were earmarked, so-called, graves to compensate for the valueless savings to those who died for 500 dollars. Not only have we not paid it off, because we've been growing debt here for two years now, but we've been letting it go, 250 million, to pay off both domestic and external debt. What we're not talking about is the source of the filling. Let's look at the natural monopolies and what nature gives us -- nadra, and we'll cover all the shadow schemes, and it'll fill up, exactly, the budget, and we won't talk about failure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. I ask you to prepare yourself for making a decision now. Minister of Finance, Feder Alexiyovich, do you have anything to conclude? Please. And invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u265	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to say that, really, during the discussion period, very important issues were raised. I've written them all down, and I'll certainly be in my day-to-day work, yes, not counting, but using them to avoid the problems that you've talked about in the future and then report on the next time. And I also want to thank the people's deputies for the work that we do together on both the budget committee and throughout the year. I mean, it's not easy for us, but it's, I think, constructive work, so all your proposals, they're going to be taken into account by the Ministry of Finance and the government. Once again, I would like to ask you to vote today and approve the 2010 budget implementation report, to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m0.u266	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. In fact, we did some kind of procedure here. Because of the summary and the 2010 report, it's clear that there's a lot of politics, and that's right, because the Supreme Council of Ukraine should talk about the problems that are causing people. At the same time, it seems more important and more important that we now, I mean, the committee of profile and all of our other committees, focus on reviewing the implementation of the budget in this year 2011 so that we can, on the basis of the first quarter, accept the changes to the budget, especially as provided for in the State Budget Act for 2011. And now, dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's State Budget for 2010 to adopt it as a decision. [[Registration number 8104-d]] Please vote. [[14:07:32]] For 243 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues, we will consider that we have risked the past. Let's talk about today, considering mistakes. One more question. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues! You and I have adopted the Act to amend some Ukrainian legislation on improving land management in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. At the same time, in the process of drafting the law, it was found that some articles were breaking up. In connection with this committee, appropriate proposals were made to clarify a number of provisions of this law. Huh? It's not a new edition. That's right. Please! In accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules, the Committee prepares, the General Legal Office cooperates, this has been done, you have been given appropriate clarifications. It's about consent. There's nothing there, dear fellows. Otherwise, the law goes away, harshly speaking. So let's do it. You've met, I'm voting on the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve land management in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[Registration number 7035]] It's about clarification. There's a vote coming. Why don't you vote? That's the law you've adopted, that's the definition! Please! It's not a new edition, it's a refinement of two positions. Look, please. [[14:09:24]] For 245 A decision has been made to eliminate differences in the law adopted. Registration number 7035. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll continue to work in plenary mode at the evening session at 16 o'clock. The first issue will be the inclusion of a group of bills.
