ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:18]] Cards were registered in the 413 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleagues, Ukrainian national deputies Babenko Valery Borisovich and Kurila Vitali Semenović. [[Applause]] Let us welcome the nouns and wish us good health and good success in our work. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on February 1, 2011. Eighteen issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, one law and one decree were passed, nine bills were adopted on the basis of which one bill was returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, and six bills were rejected. Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes Tuesday for statements by Ukrainian national deputies with statements, reports, and appeals. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Yes, Andrew Schlell, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Please, you have the right to speak. Romanyuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u2	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs, a venerable presidency! I would like to announce from this high rostrum the statement of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, the “Fatherskina” party on the situation in Moscow, in the Russian Federation, with the Ukrainian library, with the Ukrainian organizations operating in the territory of the Russian Federation, i.e. the so-called All-Russian civil Ukrainian organizations. Actually, the text stated. The BUT - Fatherland faction states that. Calls on a colleague in the Russian Parliament, because we suggest in the session room that we take a plea to the Supreme Council of Russia, the State Duma. And we think that this should be unanimously voted in the session room. The BUT faction is convinced: efforts to close the only one throughout the Russian Federation of the Library of Ukrainian Literature in Moscow, the closure of the two largest associations of Ukrainians in Russia, and the elimination of one of Russia’s largest associations, the Russian Federal National Cultural Autonomy, are evidence of the deliberate and organized exercise of restrictions on the cultural and national rights of Ukrainians. At the same time, it is not surprising that the leadership of Ukraine’s foreign political authorities does not take adequate measures to take such unfriendly steps on the part of the neighbouring state. The “BUT – Fatherland” faction calls on a parliamentary colleague to adopt a decision obliging the foreign minister of Ukraine Grishchenka to speak in parliament with his report on the persecution of the Russian side of the Ukrainians in Russia. We are also convinced that the leadership of Ukraine's diplomatic representation in the Russian Federation is not properly fulfilling its responsibilities, is violating Ukraine's legislation and the basic principles and tasks of diplomatic service. Ukraine's extraordinary and authorized Ambassador to the Russian Federation, Jelchenk, does not fully support the promotion of Ukraine's national interests, the protection of the rights and interests of ethnic Ukrainians, legal persons in the Russian Federation, the basic function of disseminating information about Ukraine abroad, the enforcement of international agreements and agreements between our countries in the field of cultural cooperation is not ensured. The “BUT – Fatherland” faction also initiates the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, in which I wish to remind Russian colleagues that there are a large number of civil associations in Ukraine that protect the rights and legitimate interests of citizens of the Russian Federation and ethnic Russians who are citizens of Ukraine. We believe that Ukraine must finally learn to defend the rights of Ukrainians abroad, just as the Russian Federation does. And I urge you to support this appeal, which will be in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u3	Romanyuk refers to Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Michael Kossov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u4	Honorable national MPs, respected compatriots, Ukraine is irreversibly integrated into the global and European economic and political elements. Ukraine has enormous opportunities to strengthen its position. 50 percent of our nation's gross domestic product is made by exporters, agrarian complex, rocket space, aviation, basic industries. This is all that has enormous potential to strengthen our external economic interests. There is a very clear and hard principle throughout the world: where it comes to protecting and promoting national economic interests, building positive image of confidence in the state, creating a favourable investment climate, this is considered to be one of the most important activities of power, the state, and around it all are united, regardless of internal political or personal competition. And this is the basis for a worthy place of state in the world. And this direction is one of the most important in the activities of the President of Ukraine, who is very clear and purposeful in defending the interests of our nation in every direction. A visual example is the last government visit by the President of Ukraine to Japan, one of our strategic partners in the East. Along with the President, there was the most powerful delegation of companies, companies of corporations of Ukraine. On the Japanese side, the bulls are represented by famous corporations, companies such as Itochu, Sumitum, Mytziu, Mitsubishi, Kaiserner, Jarto, Japan's strongest business union. The decisions taken are very principled, given the enormous efforts of the Kyoto Protocol, and these are environmental investments, hundreds of millions of dollars in terms of environmental protection. For Ukraine, this is the most plausible issue, and this is the life and security of our citizens. Continued modernization of Borispol Airport, the construction of a strategic bridge through South Bug is just the first results of both the President's visit and the efforts of everyone who forms a gross domestic product and creates jobs in Ukraine. From tomorrow, the President's visit to Poland begins. This is an opportunity to strengthen our position in the basic membership agreement negotiations, to increase energy security, to specify the Odessa-Brody-Gdansk project, which is an opportunity to attract investment from the European Union. Therefore, honourable national deputies, we urge you to work together in behalf of our nation and the Ukrainian people on matters where it is necessary to protect and promote national economic and political interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u5	Mikhail Kossov is referring to Vladimir Bondarenko, the "BUT" faction. Next is Michael Rudchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u6	Vladimir Bonadrenko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear friends, we are all hearing and not the first month about the difficult financial situation that has taken place in the country. It's really heavy. Last year’s budget is over 30 billion. At the same time, he was twice rescinded roughly, or circumcised. In fact, the budget gap was much higher. We know that borrowing has grown over the past not a crisis, said to be a year of nearly 40 billion. With all the things that didn't seem to exist, the economy was developing. We also know that the government is kneeling in front of the IMF and is asking for at least some amount. And in the background, we have very unique phenomena in Ukraine. For example, there's this firm called Livela, which is close to the Party of Regions, with foreign capitals, which imports 50 to 80 percent of oil products into Ukraine last year, which works without paying for any amount of excise collection, as well as VAT. Similarly, Ukraine suffers tremendous damage. The Excise Congregation, according to the Antimonopoly Committee, has not paid $3 billion. The Antimonopoly Committee reported that there was no VAT for billions. So 4 billion is lost. But that is not all. The vast majority of Ukrainian oil mills have closed. Last night, the Lysics closed. Cremenchuccic alone works at 30 percent of its capacity. Thousands of people have found themselves outside these businesses without a job. The price of the gas is rising because the gas is not Ukrainian, but you know Russia is increasing the export duty. And so it's like it's invisible to no one. Azarov's government, a new power in the President's person, which, they don't know what they're doing. But they know perfectly well. But why are they not taking action? It is said that he sees that the same administrative court has made this decision: to allow them not to pay excise duties and VAT. But if you'll excuse me, you'll be in the cave court making any decision that's completely out of your mind, do the same thing here. And so we're going to have a four-billion-dollar state budget replenishment last year. Recently, in January of this year. This company started shipping to Ukraine and the liquor store without excise duty. Notably, once upon a time, the Kharkiv so-called "bison" caused huge losses to the state budget even under the Kuchma regime. So what are we, what are we going back to? Where is the principle and the fight against corruption discussed here? Where, indeed, is the work done today to fill the budget rather than to eat the borrowed money? I point out that this is my address for the President to consider and take action if he wants to. I don't think he knows what's going on, but obviously the group of people around him today, especially government leaders, have a personal advantage. Because it's so peaceful to watch and to postpone the signing of new agreements with Cyprus, it's just a clear way to continue corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u7	Mikola Mikolaiovich Rudchenko. Faction of the National Party, please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Mikola Rudchenko, Zitomirščina, faction of the People's Party. Please pass the word to Mikola Haritonovich Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u9	Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, faction of the People's Party, please. Bolour will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u10	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head, dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention, the government, to the problem that concerns, I think, every Ukrainian, especially hurts a peasant -- it's a decline in the animal industry. It is now up to the state to enter 20 countries in agriculture production by 2020 and reach the level of the countries of the European Union. Today, however, Ukraine is providing only 55 percent of its meat and 44 percent of its dairy products. When 53 heads are held in European countries per 100 hectares of land, Ukraine has only 13. The problem is, therefore, that the cattle are constantly reduced, and the peasants are not interested in animal activities. There are many reasons, but the main one is lack of State support, especially funding. Last year, only 10 percent of what was budgeted was allocated to livestock. For example, there is a state-owned Tučinska company in the Rivensk region that specializes in the breeding of cattle. In the past, government grants were received for each head, but the farm is not receiving a penny. Because of low incomes from activities and a lack of food, the base for keeping large cattle was inconvenient. The private sector also needs to be mentioned. A peasant holding a cow receives about 10 liters [10 L] of milk a day. Last year, he handed it over to the chefs in the Plains on the first bracelet, from 20 to 1 bracelet, 40 bracelets. As a result, the family made about 14 dollars a day. How can farmers be interested in keeping cows in check with such incomes? Another example. In the Oscan region, five years ago, the cattle’s head stood at 16,000; today it has plummeted by half. Farmers are asked: firstly, to contribute to the creation of service cooperatives and the production of processing of animal products; secondly, to provide an effective mechanism for the provision of budgetary subsidies for each cow of meat and milk production in accordance with the national target programme for the development of the Ukrainian village; thirdly, to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Personal Agriculture, which refers to farmers engaged in farming activities and implements their production into the category of the employed population. Appropriately, they have an internship and can count on a work pension. And it is the State's guarantee that this rule of law will remove the problem from the place. And the rest. The state must provide the villagers with a stable feed base and stable agricultural prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u11	Antonina Boloura, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Please invite you to the presentation. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u12	Last week, another criminal case involving Julia Timoshenko was filed by the Attorney General’s Office. This time for the purchase of thousands of cars for the village and district hospitals. She was accused of exceeding her authority, her official authority, and the number of damages she suffered was 67 million dollars. But this is an improvement in rural health care, which was one of the ways to support the standard of living of the rural population by the government of Timoshenko, because there are almost 34 people in Ukraine. The socio-economic situation in the Ukrainian village remains complex, rural medicine in decline. Providing medical services in a very difficult situation. The inhabitants of many Ukrainian villages are deprived of access to basic advice or help from the feldsher. There's no necessary material and technology base, no professional expertise. Over the past 10 years, the total number of district hospitals has nearly doubled, and only one third of these facilities has more or less fully performed its functions. Almost the tenth field obstetrics service the rural population — three or more of them. And each of the other rural medical clinics serves more than four locations, imagine how far away they are. . The complete kit of general medical equipment is only 10 percent of the field and obstetric points and only 35 rural medical clinics. Life expectancy in Ukraine is 10 years lower than in the European Union. Mortality is very high, and rural mortality is higher than urban mortality by 37 percent, including the mortality of children in their first year of birth. This cannot be tolerated, and the government of Timoshenko has begun to implement the country medicine programme. The Government of Timoshenko has adopted two decrees to establish an inter-agency group on the development of primary health care in rural areas, two regulations have been adopted, and a bill has been drafted to approve a state-wide programme for the development of primary health care. And it's buying cars that's the beginning of this program. In this case, thousands of cars, which seem not to belong to any of the registered medical care vehicles, are said by the prosecutor's office. So that's not true. Because there's this type of ambulance called the Lineline is the most common version of ambulances. Line brigades can be hospitalized and fedsheric. This is all on the website of the Health Auto Transport of Ukraine. These linear brigades go on the simplest of occasions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u14	So I would suggest that I simply go to the village and see what is in the countryside, how these cars are used, how I get to know these thanks that people are sending, who are getting help and who are using them. And stop this disgraceful way of creating criminal cases. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u15	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Victor Terrence will be next instead of Davimukka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! From the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to advise some politicians and officials, up to those who hold the highest positions in Ukraine. Before using the word “reform” in your speeches, think a hundred times if you want the citizens of Ukraine not only to hear your speech to the end, not to turn off television or radio, but also to support your good intentions, I hope. What does the word “reform” mean? I recall that in order for us to understand the legitimate use of that word in our lives today. Reforms are referred to as transformations, changes, remodeling of public life and generally referred to as less progressive changes, but that is not the case in Ukraine. For 20 years, everything that has happened in Ukraine has been called “reforms”. Privatization, branded by the people as “acceptance”, was the name of property reforms and structural restructuring of the economy. As a result, industrial giants disappeared from the face of the country in Ukraine. There are virtually whole industries on the verge of disappearing: construction, agriculture and equipment. The largest factories in the city of Harkov have also been the victims of reforms, so-called reforms. Today, the employees of the Chevchenko factory, as well as the Government of Timoshenko, are outraged, and today's Government, in fact, all previous Governments have promised to load this serious factory with orders. This plant is needed, it can produce equipment for the modernization of rural communications networks, it can produce equipment and such works at the plant are available to modernize our nuclear power plants. Today, however, the employees of the enterprise are demanding repayment of debts on wages that have accumulated over 3 years and today are about selling the business and actually destroying it. Reforms in Ukraine in the area of health. The Bolura MP had just given specific figures as to what these reforms had led to. And unfortunately, nothing has been done by the previous Government, and today, unfortunately, very little has been done to ensure that people living, including in rural areas, can actually have access to medicine. In order for a person to go to a hospital and not need thousands of bracelets as needed today. Today, reforms are called what is happening and are expected to be implemented in retirement. However, this will only lead to the destruction of the actual pension security. Is it possible to expect that people under 35 who do not actually know how to work today who do not have any earnings will be able to obtain pensions when they are 60 years of age or older? Today, when we gave them no opportunity to work, when we gave them no opportunity to earn money. I think it's time we didn't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u17	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u18	We need to give up this myth, the word “reform” and tell people the truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u19	Victor Terrence, "BUT" faction, Fatherland. Next up will be Mutz, instead of Schenchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u20	Victor Terrence, Fatherland Party, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear colleagues, every authority on the way to dictatorship has traditionally begun to fight with writers. Mary Mathios was being persecuted -- this is an unfortunate comparison, a memorial complex with a falict symbol. But the real reason, the real reason, is quite different. The real reason is that she's a deeply national Ukrainian writer, that she's against dictatorship and the biggest store and that, you see, she wrote very well about Julia Timoshenko. For if that were different, why would the authorities of the prosecution, the law - enforcement authorities, while persecuting the writer Maria Matios, not notice the expressions of their ideological leaders, such expressions that simply shock their immorality and cynicism. Here I am in the hands of the Kiev Telegraph of December 11-17, 2009. There was enough time to learn what's written there and I quote, from here on out: "The famine has become an industry of spoiling huge budgets. It is sufficient to recall the size of the slopes in the Kiev Fall Complex, which deformed the Pecher slopes.” End of quote. So who is it that's cynical that the Memorial calls the victims of the Holodomor a falsified complex? This doesn't say any random person, it doesn't say any writer there, it's said by a man who defines humanitarian politics in our country, it's said Mr. Tobacco Minister of Education and Science. It is in the excited image of the minister of education that the memorial candle to the victims of the Holocaust is named, you see, with a falliform complex, and it can only be in a person whose hatred for Ukraine has burned out all human beings, leaving only Satanic. Now here's the next one. I have the same rights as the MP who wrote to the prosecutor's office at Maria Mathios. Which is why I'm asking you to consider my speech as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General's Office. And I'm asking the Attorney General's Office to give a legal assessment of Mr. Tobacco's statements, which, by the way, have been said by him since the adoption of the Holodomor Act. And now I want to see if Mr. Tobacco will be equally interested in the police and, most importantly, whether they will be removed from the sale of his book, which ignites national hostility and splits Ukraine. And today, this minister of education is destroying education in Ukraine and, in an effort to appease parents and children in any way, Hanna Herman said that there is a president for every Tobacco in Ukraine. And that's whether the Tobacco is still in office or gone, that's going to be the answer to whether there's a President in Ukraine. And it's over. I convey to you, Your Honor, the Head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u21	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u22	I'm handing you a copy of the tobacco article, and I'm asking you as an academic to explain to this underprivileged doctor with a false complex, which is a gross sin not to know the history of your country, but an even greater sin to abuse the memory of the innocent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u23	Orest Mutz, faction of the Party of Regions, yes, has the right to speak. Viacheslav Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u24	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, you recently celebrated the Day of Assembly. As a representative of Western Ukraine, in 1990 my countrymen were active members of the living chain that brought Lviv and Kiev together. And from the occasion of today's 92nd anniversary since the proclamation of the Zluca Act, we've carried out an action called "The River of Connection!".. The banks of the river, which once disintegrated Ukrainians, brought together a national flag and 92 embroidered towels. More than 30,000 residents of Ternopilska and Hmelničina took part in the campaign. Each area supports President Viktor Yanukovic's words. We have a common desire to live in prosperity and peace, to have the opportunity to provide for the future of our children, to ensure that the elderly are aged, whether they live in the West or in the East. The opposition political forces ignore the sense of the assembly. Their representatives, the Western Ukrainian authorities of local self - government, make statements that do not have a unified meaning. At a recent meeting of the Council of Regions, the Head of State stressed: Ukraine is the only national economic complex. Only the strengthening of inter-regional economic ties, the development of inter-regional cooperation, will enable the opening and activation of the internal potential for the development of areas, and the integration of regions. This is the content of a new regional policy. To address this task from a national point of view, the President called on representatives of the various political forces represented in the leadership of the regions. This is worth paying attention to and opposition. After all, the public is aware of the potential for ignoring national interests. This confirms the audit of the financial activity of the previous government, which illegally used state funds, caused damage to Ukraine, abused state purchases, overpriced purchases of sugar, drugs, and fictitious purchases of grain. And that's why Ukrainians, including Westerners, support the involvement of corrupt ex-governments and officials. Opening criminal cases against them. Opposing the consequences of abuse is one of the tasks of today's authorities. Being an opponent of power means that the quality changes that have taken place in the country are felt by every citizen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u26	To be an opponent of power means to dominate the quality changes that have taken place in the country, as soon as possible, every citizen in the west and in the east of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u27	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u28	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Ukraine! wants to draw attention to at least two issues that are of great concern to Ukrainians and Ukraine. First. It's a question of higher education and the actions of the Minister of Education of Tobacco. Regrettably, yesterday Parliament voted in favour of a daily bill on higher education initiated by Dmitri Tobacco. In spite of protests by students and teachers who began throughout the country. The adoption of this bill will lead to the complete degradation of Ukrainian higher education. What, to our deep conviction, is the real task of the Minister of Tobacco. And in general, strange things happen to this minister. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Azarov, places flowers in the grave of soldiers who died in the battle of Krutas, honoring those glorious and tragic events on behalf of the Ukrainian State. At the same time, the Minister of his government, Tobacco, removes from the history textbook, under his essentially editorial form, any mention of a battle under the Kruts in 1918. The opposite. President Anne Hermann's First Deputy Chief of Administration says that the President will never agree with tobacco reform and its policy in general. On the following day, the minister, who is allegedly subordinated in this case, recommends that the high official of the Janukovic Administration resign for such a statement. So the immunity given to this official exceeds the immunity of any other member of the Yanukovich-Azarov team. So the anti-Ukrainian forces have reached so far both in the government and in the administration that it is impossible to give advice to such a sad official. We point out that President Yanukovic, in the interests of Ukrainian education, must send the Tobacco to retirement as soon as possible. The second question is of great concern to us. Well, yesterday the president called for a national round table. That's an interesting offer. But before holding a national round table, political repression must be stopped, first of all. And stop the attack on the Ukrainian Church. The deputies of the three factions had already collected signatures to protest the persecution of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate. There is now a re-gathering of signatures. There are repeated references by the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kiev Patriarchate, Saint Patriarch Filaret, to the need for as soon as possible to meet the Kyiv Patriarchate chiefs with President Janukovic. [[concerning his meeting with the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches]] Unfortunately, there is no answer to that question. If the policy of persecuting the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate continues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u29	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u30	So there can be no understanding and consensus in society. This is a very delicate issue that can lead to extreme social tension. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear, dear colleagues, the time spent on the talk is exhausted. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate, appropriate assignments for the proposals made by the National Deputies. Ivan Grigorovich? Please. If there are any suggestions from the faction on the organization of work today, one minute at a time. Please John Kirilenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Now we're going to start looking at the issues that we're supposed to be dealing with in the daytime. On the Conciliation Council, I appealed to the Governing Council to take that matter into account. Thank you that Wednesday is formed by opposition forces. By letters of opposition, the opposition parties address you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, so that the agenda can be considered. To the farthest, the questions proposed by the faction are the order of the last four days. Before that, there are questions that the faction did not offer, and another political power, which in opposition, did not offer these questions either. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, who is the author of the bill, has written a letter long ago to remove these issues from consideration, they are once again the first to stand. We would like to take a close look at the proposals in the midst of the opposition forces and ask the very questions that the opposition factions are offering. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we will now begin to look again with regret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u33	Any other factions insist? Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We ended the last session in a constructive note when the draft law on access to information brought together both the left and the right parts of the room, with more than 400 deputies voting. Yesterday we continued this positive momentum and more than 300 votes, the constitutional majority, supported the constitutional change. Today we're the same, very tolerant start today. And I think we should support Ivan Grigorievich Kirilenka for the fact that, on Wednesday, we voted on the opposition's agenda, taking into account yesterday's day, because we voted on the Constitution only because of the BUT faction yesterday. Only because yesterday, thanks to the BUT faction, voted the Constitution, I think we should go to the meeting and really form an agenda for the opposition's proposals on Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u35	Who else insists on factions? None. Dear national deputies, dear colleagues, let us see if we can make arrangements for the next Wednesday to schedule meetings solely for the submission of two factions. And now I propose it this way. If the insistent MPs propose to withdraw the bill from consideration. We'll put it to a vote, I'd like to support it. And so we're going to consider today all of the issues that are defined by Wednesday's schedule, and from the following Wednesday's plenary week, just for the submission of two factions. Is there no objection? Well, it's a deal. And I'm now, if the authors and committees are going to be there to consider the reduced procedure, then we're going to consider these issues. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on crimes against life, health, will, honor and dignity]] [[Registration number 7110]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Shemchuk Viktor Viktorovich, co-rapporteur – head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement issues, Mosik Vladimir Romanović. Yes, the author suggests that we consider this issue with a reduced procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:39:04]] For 201 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, Victor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You have before you Bill 7110 on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on crimes against life, health, will, honor and dignity]] The purpose of this bill is to improve criminal law. The bill proposes to amend articles 142, “The illegal conduct of human investigations”, 149, “Human trafficking or other illegal human agreements”, 150, “The exploitation of children”, 150. “Utilization of a minor child for begging.” Taking into account the extreme social danger of crimes such as human trafficking, child exploitation and the use of children for begging, it is proposed to remove from the Ukrainian Criminal Code the social goal of committing crime, the profit that is essential for the qualification of the crimes. It is also envisaged to separate the responsibility for committing such crimes by a group of individuals under a previous conspiracy and organized criminal group. Article 149 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, adopted by law on 12 January 2006, is generally in conformity with the United Nations Convention. However, taking into account the definition of the Convention on the concept of “trafficking in human beings”, the “exploitation” can be argued that there is a need to improve the existing formulation of dispositions in part one, i.e. human trafficking in accordance with the Protocol, including recruitment, movement, concealment, transfer, or possession of human beings, exploitation for the use of fraud, blackmail or vulnerable status. We also consider it necessary to make a new edition of article 149 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which allowed for the recognition of trafficking in human beings solely for the purpose of exploitation. At the same time, we ask for separate responsibility for the previous conspiracy by a group of individuals and an organized criminal group. A number of good points to the bill were made by the Scientific and Experimental Administration. Their analysis makes it possible to claim that the drafting of the bill is possible in preparation for the second reading. Given the resonance of this category of crimes and relevance, I ask you to support my legislative initiative and to adopt the prescribed bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u37	Thank you, too, Victor Viktorovich. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u38	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The author of the bill, Viktor Shemchuk, has detailed the situation of his legislative initiatives, and it is about improving the rules on responsibility for illegal human research, the responsibility for the exploitation of children and the use of young children to engage in begging. The provisions of the bill meet the requirements of the Constitution, the technique of law making. Some comments, according to our committee, may be removed when preparing the bill for second reading. The Committee on Law Enforcement asks you, honourable Members, to support the bill in the first reading on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Valentin Zubov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u40	Valentin Zubov, National Labour Union of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, respectable voters! I don't think anyone has any doubt that this bill should be supported. That's definitely true. But I would like to draw your attention to a much more serious problem today. It is a matter of years of economic reform in Ukraine that has devalued many of the lasting values: productive, social and so on. But the most terrible thing is that human life has been devalued. I could now give, well, a bunch of examples that, in principle, the country got caught up in the flow of blood, violence against the person and so on. Yes, in fact, each of us, and probably all of us Ukrainian citizens, in spite of the Internet broadcasts, the Time Programme, 1+1, sees a nightmare that does not create optimism among our people, because violence, murder has become not an exception, but a norm of our lives. Therefore, the question today needs to be made much deeper. Today, the punishment for a crime against the individual must be strengthened, especially against crimes that deprive people of their lives. We can call for any economic reform, but if we don't put human life first, at the very top of the social value, no reform will help us, and we don't need it at all. Today I will allow myself to express a commercial thought, but I believe that we need to reconsider our position on the death penalty. Today, we must decide to abandon this position, and to rekindle the death penalty for murder, for serious crimes against the individual. The whole of Europe is good to speak, because there is a standard of living, there is a system.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u41	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u42	We don't have it. I am not a bloodthirsty man and not a bloodthirsty national MP, but we must assess the real situation in the country and adopt laws that would facilitate human life and put it on high. As the highest value of our society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u43	Yuri Prokopchuk, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u44	Yuri Prokopchuk, “BUT – Fatherhood”, Equality. The fact that the adoption of this law is really relevant today is quite clear: the number, especially the children involved in begging, in the country that today’s government and the direction to despair is increasing and increasing. And unfortunately, adults, those who are supposed to be called their parents, earn money by exploiting children. A separate article on regulation is about conducting really research on humans. And so, of course, these issues need to be addressed in the Criminal Code by raising sanctions for such cases and for such phenomena. However, without overcoming social problems in the country, it is virtually impossible to resolve these issues. So only in interaction and legislation and in social services that have to solve the issue of begging, of minor begging, can there be a solution to the problem in the country. Yet, our Committee on Law Enforcement suggests that we adopt the law as a basis. And I also, as an MP, ask you to support this law in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u45	Yuri Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u46	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. The honourable national deputies are certainly interesting, but they are not quite clear if they are properly analyzed. I wanted to respond now to those national MPs who are deeply alarmed by the state of crime in the country, and I am also excited by it. And I want to point out that we're the ones who heard the report from this platform about the Maquis attack? We've just heard the head of the HQ. The main task of which is not where and who met the opposition, but the prevention of terrorist attacks. We have heard that report by Mr. Mogilov, who does not execute a judgment on Roswadowski, our former colleague, for more than six months, and has thus become the path of crime. We didn't hear that! We do not want to see these problems, and we see the task of regulating the rules of material law. And we have to ensure the inevitability of crime and investigation and control over it. We didn't do it. I am addressing Mr. Moskal as the first deputy head of the committee: please call on the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption of Mr. Mohilov, as well as Mr. Horoshkowski, to evaluate these phenomena and give us an answer from this rostrum. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we are the body to control compliance with legislation. Now, about the specific changes that are being proposed for this project. Four articles suggest changes: 142nd, you can accept, 149th, you don't have to accept change, they're a little bit wrong. And thank you for changing to 150 and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u47	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u48	Thus, honourable national MPs, three articles need acceptance. 149th, I beg you, don't touch it! It's written coolly, well, and it's used, and the struggle is going in this direction normally. Please accept in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u49	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. I am voting on this proposal, namely the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on crimes against life, health, will, honor and dignity]] Registration number 7110, please vote. [[10:50:14]] For 276 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. [[civil liability for nuclear damage]] At the same time, the author of the bill, our colleague Dubovy, addressed a letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine asking for a decision to withdraw the bill. I'm putting to the vote the motion for, please note, withdrawal from the draft law, please vote. [[Registration number 3320]] Please vote. It's about getting rid of the bill. [[10:51:13]] For 318 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the same applies to the Bill of Registration 3323, amending the laws of Ukraine on the combined production of heat and electricity and the use of energy savings, and on the priority directions of innovation in Ukraine. [[on the promotion of cogeneration technologies]] I am voting on the motion to withdraw this bill for the author to submit the bill. Please vote. [[10:52:01]] For 317 Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on standardisation and mandatory certification]] Registration number 7064. There is a suggestion to deal with this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[10:52:37]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Natalia Jurijovna Královska. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u50	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You are invited to consider a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation aimed at removing technical barriers to economic activity and bringing Ukraine's technical regulation system into line with international practice. [[on Standardization and Compulsory Certification]] [[No. 7064]] Today, the technical regulation system provides for a mandatory certification of a significant number of goods. 34 product groups and over 400 product names. In addition, the current system requires that almost all goods be in conformity with certain regulations, standards or technical conditions. Under such conditions, the procedure for placing a new product on the market by domestic producers, the introduction of new technology, the use of modern materials in the production of innovative products is not only very difficult, expensive, but also theoretically impossible. Such a complex and cost-effective system of technical regulation under the current public oversight system restricts competition among consumer products, reduces the range of products produced, the complexity of responding to marketing challenges and, consequently, the decompetitiveness of many of our domestic producers. Moreover, despite the complexity of the current compulsory certification system, it does not function, does not ensure the quality and safety of products entering the market. According to the State Committee on Technical Regulatory and Consumer Policy, about 80 per cent of the goods sold to us do not meet the requirements in Ukraine. So maybe we don't have a problem with goods, but with those demands? It is therefore proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u51	Microphone, please, for two more minutes, since it is from the author and the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u52	Therefore, instead of the cost-effective and ineffective mandatory certification of products, we should apply other controls in the country. Moreover, even with the lifting of mandatory certification in Ukraine, there remains a large number of other types of controls, much more than in developed countries and, in particular, in the European Union. According to the requirements of the World Trade Organization and the directives of the European Union, the system of technical regulation should be separated from the system of State regulation and control of the safety and quality of foodstuffs. The list of products subject to mandatory certification should also be reduced. In addition, the bill proposes the power to approve the list of products subject to mandatory certification to transfer to the Cabinet of Ministers. In the view of the Industrial Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee, the adoption of the bill will help to remove unjustified obstacles to entrepreneurship and domestic production, improve the competitiveness of our producers and accelerate Ukraine's integration into the world economy, facilitate trade with global partners. The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Enterprise proposes to adopt Bill 74 as a basis. Please support this proposal. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u53	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names, please. Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Please. Landik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u54	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, the bill in the proposed edition levelled consumer rights for quality and safety products. Its acceptance will lead to an uncontrolled influx of imported products of unknown origin and low quality. That's right. In addition, the project does not respond to European or world practice. If it is implemented, the state will lose control of the quality of production. Therefore, he needs substantial work to be done to take into account the provisions of the Laws on State Market Surveillance and Control of Non - Food Products and on the overall safety of non - food products. The following warnings should also be taken into account. With regard to the cancellation of the requirements for the application of quality standards for normative documents. It is worth noting that Ukraine has 40,000 sectoral standards and 52,000 technical conditions, which are the main normative documents for manufacturers. And they can't be left out of the law. The bill also provides for exceptions to the Ukrainian Act on Standardization of the Status of the Progressive Transition from Compulsory Standards to Voluntary Standards for the Development and Implementation of Technical Regulations. But it should be borne in mind that this rule of law has been set in order to enable the Ukrainian industry to prepare for the fulfilment of the EU’s requirements. Canceled certification. The bill proposes to amend a number of legislative acts in part of the cancellation of food certification. According to the Final Order of the Ukrainian Law on the Confirmation of the Disqualification of Product Certification, a change should take place after the introduction of the relevant technical regulations. To date, no technical regulations on food have been introduced in Ukraine. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the bill to exclude food certification requirements from a series of laws are premature. In view of the foregoing, I propose that this bill be sent for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u55	People's MP Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up is Perstenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u56	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You know, we're listening to ovations that support the previous speaker who says we need to continue certification. Let's remember, what do we certify? There's nothing going on with you guys anymore. We've already got everything in the truck. It's all imported. Well, what's interesting is that we don't do any import and import certification. When I visited my constituency in Rowenaky, I went to see a child's shoe factory that had over 3,000 women working on it, produced children's shoes in Soviet times, produced 3 to 4 million shoes of natural leather. They now produce 27 to 30 pairs of children's shoes, and each pair per month, certification checks from string to everything. At the same time. 27 couples a month! Millions are imported from Turkey, from China, wherever we wish, and we have “no shoes for children” written in our certificates, but they are not all skinned, all covered in nuggets. And that's all possible. Therefore, these standards have long been outdated. And in the same ballast water, when the steamboats come to our port, and when they prove to us that the water should be ballast, better to drink. What kind of drinking water do we have?Oh, my God! She's no standard at all, but they can't stop her, so they're changing standards. And where they can “push” an agricultural producer, whoever they want, they choke” these outdated standards. Therefore, for production, these standards must be changed for a long time. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u57	Microphone, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u58	But understanding the mood of the hall that we can't accept it now, let's reread it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u59	National Deputy Perestenko, Communist faction. Karmazin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that a similar bill under registration number 1363 was tabled in 2008 for consideration by President Viktor Yushchenk of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Most of us remember that this bill was negatively accepted by domestic producers, as evidenced by their numerous appeals to the President, the Government, and the Supreme Council. And as a result, we were rejected as being inopportune and not yet in the interests of Ukraine. This bill, which we are considering today, is virtually no different from the one aimed at destroying the existing system of technical regulation and the destruction of the consumer's right to quality and safety. The law proposes to exclude from article 15 of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the standardization and certification of the requirement for compulsory certification of the State system. This is contrary to international practice and the Constitution of Ukraine. Because the State guarantees the protection of consumers’ rights by controlling the quality and safety of products and all kinds of services and jobs. According to the legislation, the State delegatees control functions to an authorized certification body. In summary, I believe that the adoption of this law at this stage will virtually nullify control by the State, negatively affect the activities of domestic enterprises, protect consumer rights, and attract a lot of unpleasant things. So we recommend not to vote in favour of Bill 7064. And by the way, that's what the Supreme Council's scientific expertise recommends. To be known: The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Politics
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u61	Yes, yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u62	On December 21, 2010, the law was studied, and the committee decided to recommend to Parliament that the bill be rejected as anti-constitutional and anti-national. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u63	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u64	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous speakers have reminded me of the nature of the discussion that took place three years ago, almost three years ago in this room. Then you and I, we really did evaluate, as our colleague Perestenko has just said, we evaluated this bill and rejected it as being anti-national. Now I'd like to focus your attention on a few questions. First, in our colleague Landik's speech, it was said that we did not control foreign products when imported. That's absolutely true. That's absolutely true. Therefore, in order to ensure that the Constitution works, it is necessary not only to control its own products but also to control imported products. Because we need to watch how this control is implemented and how it is handled. What was proposed in this law when you take the left plate and the right, the requirements for pesticides, the certification of pesticides and agrochemicals to meet the requirements of government standards is generally excluded. Is that not a criminal offer? A criminal offer. Or any other suggestion made under this law. By food. Today there was an ICTV channel that showed everything being faked, from wine to milk. How it is made of palm oil. And we can't prevent that from happening today? I agree with the statement by both Deputy Shershun and other deputies that this bill in this case is a violation of article 42 of the Constitution, where it is the responsibility of the State to control safety and quality of production.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u65	Yes, the honourable national deputies, the discussion is over. For the reasons of the vote, Natalia Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, we have now seen an example of shock reform for bureaucracy, not shock reform for people. When it is proposed that tens of thousands of certificates be withdrawn, various types of reports that are now required from our producers throughout the country by a completely ineffective system of State technical control. And when it comes to attacking the sick mossle of bureaucracy, we hear protection and support from our bureaucrats, and they want to continue to work with an inefficient system that has led to 80 per cent of the products on the market being falsified and unquality. So perhaps the time has come when we will begin to move from the reforms of the shocks to the shocking reforms of bureaucracy. Let us remember, however, that our main task in 2011 is to modernize our economy. Thus, the modernization of the economy cannot take place unless it throws us out of our economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u67	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Bill 7064 is now under discussion. Thoughts are diametrically opposite. At the same time, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office made a recommendation to reject the bill. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on standardisation and mandatory certification]] [[Registration number 7064]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:09:13]] For -8 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to put a motion to vote, as I said, on the return of the subject to the right of the legislative initiative to work. Please identify yourself. [[11:09:48]] For 265 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration of the draft Law amending article 39 of the Law on Telecommunications is proposed. [[on the organization of payments for telecommunications services]] Registration number 7071. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Transport and Liaison with Morocco, Yuri Mikolayovich. How about a cut? Anatoly Stepanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u68	Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u69	What do you think? Well, I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:10:42]] For 215 Decision taken. Be easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u70	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This bill, right now, I'm going to say, which is supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, is not in the plane of most or a minority. Power or opposition. It's in a different plane. We're going to protect and defend the interests of tens of millions of citizens, including those sitting here in the hall, when they're eating mobile services, whether we're going to protect the interests of a few billionaire lobbyists. It's simple. Will we require people to pay for such a calculated period, in a month, by rounding up seconds, minutes, and so forth? Will people clearly pay for the consumption of telecommunication services for each individual? That's it. It's all clear. I know, and I repeat, that scientific expertise supports first reading. And I'm asking you to back me up. I also know that the government under pressure of lobbyists denies it. So we'll see what the result is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u71	Thank you, too. Moroko Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please, the committee's decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Transport and Communications Committee has considered a bill amending article 39 of the Telecommunications Act. Registration number 7071. [[on settlement of telecommunications charges]] The Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the National Communications Management Commission do not support the bill. The position of the Transport and Communications Committee is as follows. First, in the Committee's view, the issue of telecommunications charges was sufficiently clearly addressed by legislation and did not require further clarification. Secondly, the changes proposed by the authors, not for the calculation period, but for each separate service, would in fact destabilize the financial relationship between the communications operators and the subscribers. Because operators will have to issue a subscriber's account for each individual phone call if they follow the strictly proposed wording. [[for each separate service]] This is an unacceptable practice that is not necessary. The Transport and Communications Committee recommends that the Supreme Council reject the bill. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please state the names of the national MPs. Vladimir Bondarenko, “BUT – Fatherland” faction, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u74	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yuli's Block Timoshenko. I would like to pay attention to both the respected author and the profile committee on what appears to be two or three summonses ago, along with National Deputy Boris Bespali, we tabled a bill that was then passed, then the committee head was Valérie Deserthovetenko, who made it clear that telephone operators have the right to charge only for the last entire unit. They then argued, they didn't want to change the accounting system from minute to second, but then they switched very quickly. So this law works, it's in other bills there, and it's in force today. I don't know, the truth is, why do we have to repeat what is already being decided in legislation today? We then, at the time, passed another bill that made it possible to keep an account on the home phone, but unfortunately it wasn't implemented. There were also other proposals to protect consumer rights. But in this case, I think that this position is operating in Ukrainian legislation and I don't think there's any need to repeat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u75	Yuri Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine-National Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u76	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The fact that this bill has already been passed and is now finalized, and judged by the highly expert department, proves one thing. What will the Supreme Council do today, defend the interests of whom, specific consumers, each day, every second, every minute, or protect the interests of large companies? And what will the government do, and why is this necessary for the government? I'm curious. What is the advantage of that government that you are speaking out against this bill today? I don't understand the committee that made a negative statement today about this bill. Because in the bill, part three of article 39 of the Telecommunications Act, the words “accounting with consumers” are replaced by the words “accounting for each such service”. These are all changes to the bill. To whom do they interfere? They prevent those who do not want to, who do not count these costs and who thinks that they have entered this market, and mostly companies that do not belong to Ukraine do not belong to Ukrainians, they are not controlled by the government of Ukraine. And because of this, it doesn't need any change in equipment, because timekeepers can provide accurate computations, it doesn't provide absolutely no cost, but it saves consumers' costs and protects their interests, it doesn't cost too much. That's why this bill would be worth supporting in both the first and second readings at the same time, because I gave you an example, there are only two words that change, but what is the quality of those words.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, who of the factions has failed to speak and insist? Jaroslav Suhi. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u78	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to my words by the national deputies of Ukraine on the fourth and fifth appeals. Do you remember that MP Bespali Boris Jakovic introduced this bill? He's acting, he's acting. What is the purpose of this bill? And why didn't the Chief Research Administration point out that this plagiarism is not a bill, it's already there? So I didn't understand the logic of the bill. It is a matter of taking into account the full tariffs of the unit of time when it is charged for each received telecommunications service. I'm speaking, I remember then I was speaking to Yuri Anatoliyovich, you know, we were talking about the incoming even in this bill, who's paying for the tickets and who's paying for the weekends. It's in Boris Jakovitch Bespalogo's bill, so this bill can be boldly rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u79	Anatoly Gritsenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I would like to give an explanation and ask you to read the text carefully before making such conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u81	Please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u82	The bill is written by Gritsenko and Bespali. I mean, first of all, it's not plagiarism. Second, the Bespallian well remembers the bill he passed along with others. And it's with him that we found this gap that makes it possible for you and tens of millions of others to raise huge money in favor of operators' providers just because those two words that Karmazin was talking about are not written like that. That's the point. That's why Bespali is supporting, he's co-authoring this bill. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, the explanation is clear to everyone, right? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law, registration number 7071, amending article 39 of the Law on telecommunications. [[on the organization of payments for telecommunications services]] [[11:19:50]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, since there has been a variation, I will put to the vote a motion to re-read the bill. Or for further processing. How much better? For work? I'm voting on the proposal to return the bill to work. Please vote. [[11:20:27]] For-182 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to consider a bill on the organization and implementation of gambling in Ukraine. At the same time, there is a letter from the Ukrainian national deputy Andria School about the withdrawal of his bill. The point is there are two bills: 4648 and 4648-1. So I think we can listen to a bill by Hennaday Hennadiovich Moskal and determine it. And since Andrew Schlell has withdrawn his bill, I understand that he supports his colleague’s bill. Oh, no? I'll bet. One minute, Hennaday Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u84	Are you filming? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u85	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In Ukraine, there is this saying: “Seven years ago, the poppy did not give birth and there was no hunger.” It's the same with gambling. The point is that the gaming business was drafted before the Supreme Council was banned. I mean, her legislative ban, so today there's no point in considering it, so I'm taking it down. But I do have a lot of concern, my esteemed colleagues, because the Ministry of Finance has already drafted its bill as well. about gambling in Ukraine. In any case, we are clearing the way for them to introduce a bill of government that was previous against the gaming business and a new one wants to return what was in Ukraine. There is no game business today! Parliament works, trolleybuses go, kids go to school. It's working, and nothing happened. We haven't even gotten to the point where we're handing our people the slot machines. I would also ask those who have drafted the Weapons Law to remove it, because we are not yet adults. Thank you. I'm filming my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u86	Thank you, Hennady Hennadiovich. Please, Andrew School. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u87	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to emphasize that the same story with my bill. It was written early in 2009, and, of course, it is now out of date. I am convinced that neither the active government nor any of the next will dare to destroy the system that has been set up in Ukraine to ban the gaming business. There will be something to be reformed in some minimal surgical history in the future, but the situation in Ukraine is something that now comes back, I'm sure no one will dare. And the bill, which has become obsolete, I ask the Supreme Council to support me and withdraw it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a motion to withdraw from the draft law on the organization of gambling in Ukraine. [[Registration numbers 4648, 4648-1]] Please vote. [[11:24:20]] For 345. Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the increase in the income of the general government social insurance budget in the context of the global financial crisis]] [[Registration number 6115]] The rapporteur and co-rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Hara Vasil Georgievovich. At the same time, respectable colleagues have been asked by the Ukrainian national deputy to postpone the consideration of the bill. So for starters, I'm going to put a motion for a motion to postpone the bill, if not, we're going to consider it. Yeah. No, the author of the bill is missing, there's his letter. I would like to vote on the motion by the author of the bill of the Ukrainian MP Shevchuk on the transposition of the bill. [[11:25:48]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Let's look at it then. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:26:12]] For 199 Decision taken. Please, Vasil Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u89	Respected colleagues, the bill has been drafted by the author to prevent the education of debts in the general public social insurance system and to increase the income of social insurance funds. The bill provides for amendments to the relevant laws. In support of the bill, initiated. It should be said, however, that attention should be paid to part nine of article 50 of the Executive Production Act, which prohibits the recovery of property from the general government social security funds and the Pension Fund. This, in turn, may limit the social rights of beneficiaries of insurance payments, in particular pensioners affected by accidents at work and the unemployed. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council warns that, in this case, the introduction of such a rule deprives affected Ukrainian citizens of the possibility of a judicial challenge to the decisions of the funds concerned regarding their adequate insurance payments. It is also proposed to amend part seven of article 5 of the Law on the Recovery or Recognition of the Insolvency of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity and Pension Fund. Accordingly, this Act establishes the modalities for restoring the capacity of business entities. The Social Insurance Fund, on the other hand, is a non-profit body of self-government and the Pension Fund is a body, a central body of the executive branch. Thus, these organizations are not business entities and the Law on the Recovery of Capacity to Pay should not apply to them. I would like to say that the Ministry of Social Policy, the Employment Centre, the Pension Fund, the Insurance Fund and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office support this bill for adoption on first reading. The Committee suggests that such a decision be supported and suggested that it be taken as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u90	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Yes, please show me the names of the national MPs. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the social insurance funds operating in Ukraine, four of them, have suffered severe shocks and trials in crisis, many of whom have lost considerable money. [[Unfortunately, we never accepted the fifth fund — health insurance.]] I am now asking you to listen to me carefully to those Ukrainian national deputies who are meeting with voters who are working in places and to what people are asking the question, what are we doing with prices, why are prices rising, why is life so difficult? So we have these funds: temporary job losses, births, funerals, the fund pays the hospital, the pregnant ones, births, funerals, sanatorium treatments, sanatorium prophylaxis, child health, including New Year's gifts -- this is the former Soccer Fund. This fund paid nearly 7 billion dollars last year. I'm just going to do the first introduction, and then I'm going to say the total. Overall, spending on financing social insurance programs amounted to some 190 billion dollars last year. Please calculate the cost of our budget -- over 300 billion dollars. Imagine if these four funds were not where we would take the money from the State Budget to provide for accidents in manufacturing, unemployment, birth, burial, and retirement, especially in payment. So this bill by Oleg Shevchuk needs to be supported in the first reading. There is, indeed, a point to him. But I'm also on this rostrum. Colleagues, every day an unacceptable social insurance fund in medicine is burying our people, taking away the wages of doctors and destroying the material and technical base. We need a bill, and we need to adopt the bill on the introduction of the fifth species. Ukraine will receive a comprehensive system of compulsory state social insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u92	Kirilo Kulikov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u93	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, this bill is needed to compensate for the crisis, the global crisis, the crisis in Ukraine. But many questions arise before this bill. These laws are designed for virtually shadowy privatization in many areas. This first raises the issue of amendment to article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises and to article 34 and chapter XI, paragraph 2, of the Implementation Act. This means that companies in the fuel and energy complex, which take part in the calculation of state social and pension insurance funds, will be forced to collect property from them for the benefit of these funds. First of all, the adoption of this law in the second reading should change. Because it's a norm that drives shadowy privatization of the fuel-energy complex. Another issue is the collection of property and the costs of citizens who owe to these funds. First of all, what's the logic then? Most of these citizens are aid holders from these funds, and this is a stick in two ends. This is the first thing that's going to hit the same citizens that are going to collect the property from which the money is going to be drawn. But these funds have to serve these citizens, and that raises the question. I mean, I think that many of the provisions of this bill are still unthinkable, the bill may be adopted in the first reading, but it is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u94	Microphone, please. Do you have everyone? Dear colleagues! No one insists on the performance? No, it's not. So this means that the bill is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis, The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. I would like to place a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the increase in the income of the general government social insurance budget in the context of the global financial crisis]] Please vote. [[11:34:04]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! Now, your point is to propose a draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on mandatory government social insurance. [[on the strengthening of payment discipline in the payment of contributions to public compulsory social insurance funds]] It is also a bill authored by Oleg Shevchuk and is also a letter from him about the transfer of the matter. That's why I'm voting on the postponement of this bill. Please identify yourself. [[11:34:57]] For -6 So we're looking at a bill. The suggestion is to discuss this with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:35:19]] For 202 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Hara Vasil Georgievovich. Please, Vasil Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u95	Respected colleagues, the bill proposes to amend some laws, the substance of which is, in fact, two proposals. First. It is proposed that banks accept payment orders from insurers and other payment documents for the issuance or transfer of payroll funds, together with payment documents for the corresponding amounts of insurance contributions or documents that confirm the actual payment of these contributions to the General Education Social Insurance Fund. And a second sentence. In the case of untimely credits or credits due to a bank of premiums or pennies, a fine of 0.1 per cent of the amount indicated per day shall be fixed, but not more than 10 per cent as a whole. The Committee and the Scientific and Expert Office made a comment, a first sentence and a wish, it did take place and it ensured timely access; and the second, it already existed in the Payment Systems and Transfer Act in Ukraine, where it was already defined in article 32, paragraph 32.2 of the Act: that, if the bank is not to blame, 0.1 per cent per day is imposed, but not more than 10 per cent of the total amount. So this is already settled by law. The Committee therefore proposes to adopt the second sentence as a basis for the adoption of the second reading only, the second sentence, since it has already been defined by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u96	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is anything to say about this bill, please sign in. Show me the names of the people's deputies. Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! In general, these two bills complement and address the problems that are currently faced with the payment of social insurance funds. I just want to give you a few examples of how to pay for hospital bills, and in a number of areas, they're no longer paid for six months. So here I think payment discipline, financial discipline – they need to be strengthened. And the demands are probably justifiable at this point. So I ask you to support and still add to the second reading so that they are complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u98	Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! There is a real problem today with the timely replenishment of the Social Insurance Funds. I remind you that these are funds that pay for unemployment; they're funds that pay off at the birth of a child; they're funerals; they're funds that pay in the event of disability. And some are not good - mannered, not good - conscienceed employers who miscalculate these costs. What's more, there's individual banks that do all the calculations first, and then I'm counting these funds. And that's why this law would be aimed at increasing responsibility for timely payment. But I said that I'm going to go against these motives, well we can't write down this point that's proposed in the law: if we didn't pay the funds, we don't have to pay the wages. Imagine, at this position, millions of people don't get paid on time, and now there's debt on salary, unless we can go for it. That's why I don't agree. Moreover, colleague Hara correctly stated that there is now a standard that obliges, imposes fines on banks up to 10 percent, and does not need to be repeated. That's why I don't think this law is such a burden.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u100	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u101	does not bear the kind of pressure that would really be directed to the protection of insurers, either to work together or to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! Nobody insists? Eugene Kirilchuk, Faction of the Fatherland, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u103	I see there's very little observation, maybe even asking this question to be accepted as a whole, you can't accept it as a whole. I want to add only one thing to what's said, which is the three funds that the Cabinet of Ministers is adding to the income portion of the budget. They can't be accounted for in the income part of the budget -- they're non-budgetary funds and they have to be alone and act on their own rules. Because, for this reason, the managers of these funds are protesting that it should be included in the income part of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the subject of compulsory State social insurance. [[on the strengthening of payment discipline in the payment of contributions to public compulsory social insurance funds]] Registration number 6116. Please vote. [[11:41:19]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider the draft decree marking the 170th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian writer, publicist, historian, public official Mikhail Petrovich Dragomanov. Registration number 7178. Dear colleagues also have such an offer. In addition to this issue, we have three bills to consider. Let's look at them, and then we'll go work on the committees. Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, this is about the legislative initiative of my colleagues Vladimir Zubanov and Vadim Petrenko, our idea is that. This year is special, and it is not only a year of 20 years of independence of Ukraine, but also a year, when we voted on the initiative of my friend and Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk to celebrate the 140th anniversary of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine. As you know, these are brotherly families: Mikhailo Dragomanov’s cousin, Lesi Ukrainiana, and she considered him to be her spiritual teacher and mentor. And of course it would be for scientists and public figures to devote this year to a more perfect study of creativity and ideas, and the Kosache family, and the Dragovan family, that would be correct. Another argument was that Mikhailo Dragomanov was a very important and respected man in Bulgaria. And I met with the Ambassador of Bulgaria in Ukraine, and Bulgaria is very interested in actively promoting his activities. You know that Mikhail Petrovich Dragomanov is one of the founders of Sofia University. And so we've already had a conversation before, so that at the level of the University of Kiev, the University of Shevchenka, the Kyiv Peduniversity of Michael Dragomanov and the University of Sofia, we can hold a serious international conference. Since Mikhailo Dragomanov was born in Hadjachi, Poltava is also interested in engaging in this work. In a word, I think it's appropriate to synchronize this activity at a national level, and to actually this year's 20th anniversary of independence, to honor those important intellectuals, scientists, public figures, who applied themselves to Ukraine as a state, and to attach Ukrainian history, culture, political science, philosophy, not only in Ukraine, but also outside it. So I would ask for the initiative of Mikola Tomenka, Vladimir Zubanov, and Vadim Petrenko to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u106	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality is Yavorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, Mikola Tomenko has largely described this truly outstanding figure in Ukrainian history, in Ukrainian spirituality. I would just like to add that Mikhailo Dragomanov is such a special place in the development and spirituality and science and publicist and nation-building in the second half of the 19th century and thanks to him, in fact, he was not the first to offer to move away from the hurling, so called, in thought, in science and in publicism. And in fact, he was the first to offer radically Ukrainian intelligence to Europeanize. He was indeed an uncle of the Forest of Ukraine, had a colossal influence on Ukrainian and literature at the time, and thanks to him in fact and for his support, in his orientation we had literature at the beginning of the twentieth century, this same Tichin. By the way, I have to say, you and I voted literally in the last days of last session to celebrate Tichina's Jubilee. But I have to tell you from this rostrum high that this is made incredibly languid, uninteresting and, if you want, even in the name of this very complex, by the way, figure. In addition to what happened in the small room of the museum of Pavel Grigorovich Tichini, nothing was actually done at the Ukrainian level. That's not the way it's supposed to be. We accept these decisions and they must be implemented. Because of this, I think there's still time for Titina, a certain lift and I think it needs to be filled. And the committee is calling for a vote for this order. Mikhailo Dragomanov is worthy of an article in Ukrainian literature.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u108	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the occasion. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikhailo Kosov, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u109	Mikhailo Kosov, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Mikolo Volodymyrovich, of course, is very interesting and fruitful because Dragomanov’s figure is not unambiguous. Among other things, he was a full - time teacher of Ukrainian Titans, such as John Franco. So my suggestion is that this is not just a veneration. You see, only one letter from Dragomanov and Frank embraces five great volumes, who knows them today? Because they've been going out lately, I know, about 100, more than, years ago. So if you pick up the figure Dragomanov, who was not only an actor in Ukrainian literature, but also Bulgarian literature. In addition, there was a number of Dragomans in Sofia, and there was also a founder in Sofia, such as Bulgarian monumental art Mikhailo Paraschuk, our Levian, sculptor, and many others, and we would have enjoyed very interesting parameters for such an international celebration. So I suggest that we now discuss very specific ways so that we don't limit ourselves to one thing, but that it has a practical effect, even if we can't do it this year, we can do it another year, the following years. For example, it is hardly known that Dragomanov lived in Switzerland for a time, and there he published just a phenomenal magazine called "The Crowd", which formed a social opinion in Ukraine. So to get these facts and then this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u110	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. There's Vladimir Karpuk. No, it's Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, as a student of the History Faculty of the University of Donetsk, I had to study biography, political activity and activity as a publicist, as a historian of Dragomanov. I'm going to say that, really, this is a great figure, this is a great man who has glorified our state abroad, and he deserves to celebrate his birthday. What's more, I'm going to point out that there's now Dragomanov's Pedinstitute in Kiev. I think there are other educational institutions that bear his name. And I want to say that I even had to write my degree in Dragomanov, so I urge all my colleagues in the Party of Regions to vote for us to celebrate this historical figure so largely, so worthy of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u112	Vladimir Karpuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u113	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. We certainly support the adoption of the 170th anniversary of the birth of the great Ukrainian multifaceted, encyclopaedic man, Michael Dragomanov, who contributed to the formation of talent, the education of the Forest of Ukraine. And she's always consulted him on so many life issues. And it is indeed a person who has made a very big contribution to the development of the Bulgarian culture itself, the Bulgarian vocabulary. Regrettably, these marks, as Vladimir Alexanderovich has already said, are passing at least as if with the support of the state. But we don't see any interest in the state in having Ukrainian names shine bright stars in the sky as a whole of the world's culture. And the way we treat these giants is also true of our culture. Unfortunately, no decision has been taken by Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski. And I didn't make the decision that I proposed to mark those dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u114	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u115	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I would like to add to that point of the decree, which is where we have to recommend the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as the recommendation of the Ministry of Education of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture, to take action to explain the activities in those manuals that they are currently issuing. That's why I think it's kind of such a detail. But Dragomanov’s views were interesting to both the lawyers then and the lawyers of today. The views were interesting to understand the interaction of the Russian, the Austro-Hungarian Empire. And then for what happened to the Ukrainian state. I'd like to ask the authors to reflect on this assignment to the ministry that is losing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u116	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. I very much ask Yuri Anatoliovich not to insist on his amendment. Because we, on the one hand, say that decision makers shouldn't dictate how to write textbooks and what to explain in textbooks, and now we want to see what history textbooks should say. The fact remains that Ukraine needs to discover Dragoman to the full, a multifaceted figure that, like Franco, is undervalued. Therefore, requests, honourable colleagues, to support the approval of this draft decision. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Order marking the 170th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian writer, publicist, historian, public official Michael Petrovich Dragomanov. [[Registration number 7178]] Please vote. [[11:53:19]] For 388 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, this confirms that there are figures in Ukrainian history that consolidate Ukraine, and this is Dragomanov among them. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear, dear fellows, let's not start passions on this issue right now. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft decision to move out of the territory of the National Kyevo-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve, which has nothing to do with its statutory activity. [[Registration number 7482]] Please support the proposal to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[11:54:17]] For 212 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of Yavorovska Volodymyr Aleksandrovich. Please, Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! A few words about the history of this issue. The thing is, there are a lot of different organizations in the Upper Lawry in the Kievovo-Pecher Reserve today. Some have a bearing directly on culture, on spirituality, others have little to do with it. The government responded to this proposal from our committee and created a working group to figure out who to move out of there and who not to move out. However, it was said 'a', but no 'b' was said. The government did not say, nor did it list what objects to move away and which objects to leave. And there's also going to be a meeting of the committee, and there's this massive discussion of this subject, and the public of Ukraine has come together to say that at least three museums have to be left behind -- this is a decorative art that can't literally be transferred to another room, because it has to be dismantled, there's all our genius artists, national elections; it's the Institute of Books and Printing, which has a direct bearing, because it's in Kiev-Pechesque Lavry that our literature, our first books, our littorians, and so on. As a result, the draft decree is of a purely recommendational nature. We're not intruding, we're just recommending that the government decide as quickly as possible not to disturb the public, because there's a lot of talk around it. They say we're being thrown out. You know what I mean. Because I think it's all normal, it's smart to sort out, it's important to figure out what to move out, and the museums that have a direct bearing on Kiev-Pecher Lavre and extend it, as it were, the Laura's aura, leave them there. That's what this decision is all about. There's no politics here, I'm stressing again, there's no politics here. We just recommend that the government speed up this process, otherwise it will be forgotten.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u118	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u119	And don't upset the passion around it. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Please state the names of the national MPs. Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, you know, when you're here in Lavre, in this historic place, you'll notice that they just don't sell there: and some spreads, badges, and some other wood products, and a lot of other things. And it seems like Laura is baiting people who are just doing business. I'm talking about icons that are cheap self-made and a lot of other things -- all that has nothing to do with tradition in this historic place, with the culture of Ukraine. I don't know how my colleagues are going to vote. I support this decision, especially since our government said it was necessary to put order in place. People have to come to pray to see where literacy began, to look at historical values, to buy something historic for themselves, not to buy counterfeits, fakes, I'm sorry, and more than that, not to spoil this historic place. I support the offer made by my colleague Yavorowski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u122	Mikhailo Kosov, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u123	Mikhailo Kosov, BUT, Reform and Order Party. It turns out that when we've been discussing this issue at our committee meeting, there are over 20 different institutions in Kiev-Pecher Lavra that don't apply to the work of Lavra itself. Well, of course, there's both government and non-state institutions that have different functions. For example, the Museum of Books there is no doubt to be left behind, for the museum will need to develop a special plan for printing in Ukraine and in Lavra in particular in the future. This is a very famous story in Ukrainian. The Museum of Decorative Art also has a completely direct and direct attitude toward Lavra herself. After all, if you take different patterns, smogs, and so on, the Museum of Theatre Art is also very organic. But at the same time, there are institutions from which Lavra can easily be disposed of, and we urge the government, particularly the Ministry of Culture, to divide as quickly as possible everything that really strengthens the impression of Lavra as our historical monument and what colleagues say is of some kind. So I ask you very much to support this decision, because it is absolutely relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u124	Yes, dear colleagues, from factions that have not yet spoken, who insists? Catherine Samuel, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u125	Thank you. Samylik, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! It was only yesterday, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, that you spoke at the session about the fact that the rather sensitive issues that are affecting our society should be avoided. Today you're asking a question that's kind of a nice name, but we know it's politics and it's pretty big politics. I disagree with Comrade Stoyan. What's he talking about?Oh, my God! What icons? What right does he have to appreciate what the icons are and all that? I'm asking you very much, and I call on you all, and we've given an order to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Minister's office has a lot of powerful professionals, along with the Ministry of Culture, who will determine what to leave behind in Kiev-Pecher Lavre and what to clean up from there. I'd like it from a point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u126	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u127	I would like to ask that, from the point of view of it, it is necessary not to speak at all, but to vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u128	Thank you. From the faction of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u129	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! I suggest not to disturb a completely civilized one. A civilized way of discussing a decision. I think my colleague Stoyan was right about a lot of things being sold there. Many different products are sold there. I advise who was not there, both left and right, to go see. But that's not the point right now. The point is that we have identified and recommended to the government to identify a list of subjects that are not culturally and scientifically involved in cultural heritage protection. And it's all about saving the reserve, all of it. And we should take into account that the government itself has not identified such subjects or entities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, well, have spoken on this subject. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u131	I'm done. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am absolutely asking you not to disturb me. It's absolutely peaceful, it's no threat to anyone, it's got nothing to do with the churches, it's got nothing to do with anything. It has to do with the preservation of the historical and cultural reserve, the historical and architectural ensemble, which is there and which, indeed, is there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u133	I'm not going to argue with a national MP who, first of all, ruined the situation. Indeed, the decision is very calm. I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, want to. The most recent information that the MPs may not yet know. Rurikovich, the heirs of this princely kind, you know, are now being brought to trial to condemn us to the Kyevo-Pecherian Lavra and the Golden Gate. Well, we can enjoy the one and only: that they also want to condemn the Kremlin. Because, well, you yourself realize that this decision is aimed at one thing: to preserve the national sanctuary as quickly as possible. This must be decided by the government. This is our competence, the Supreme Council, to help the government solve this issue more quickly. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u134	I think let those of us who judge us give us the gold of Half-Bottom, let them take it. What does the government think about this? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u135	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, in the matter of eviction from the area of the museum reserve, it is necessary to take into account the requirements of article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on Culture, according to Part Four, which prohibits evictions of cultural institutions, theatres, philharmonics, libraries, museums, archives, art galleries and out-of-school facilities and leisure without giving them any other equivalent accommodation. The government does not decide on the release of premises in the reserve shells without providing museums and other cultural facilities occupied today with equivalent facilities. In view of what has been said, the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture does not support the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the removal from the territory of the National Kyiv-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve, which is not linked to its statutory activity in relation to the fact that the issue has already been regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, this was Forest Victoria Mikolayevna, deputy minister of culture. Question completed. Dear colleagues, on the one hand, obviously we should be here to encourage Kiev-Pecher Lavra to carry out its original assignment. On the other hand, the question is, if there's a cultural establishment where we can move it, how did we make a decision that forbids the relocation of cultural institutions? Obviously, it would be good if we worked together with the government and initially identified the list of objects that are parasites there, sorry for that word that has no relation to culture, to the spirituality that needs to be moved and to stand firm in the position that these entrepreneurial structures, if they are there, are not supposed to be in a holy place. I think this position would make perfect sense. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I will put the committee's proposal to the vote. And he recommends that we take it as a whole, but when I feel this controversial, I'm going to put it as a base, and then let's look at it. No objections? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft decision on eviction from the territory of the National Kyevo-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve of Hosting Subjects, whose activities are not related to its statutory activity. [[Registration number 7482]] Please vote. [[12:07:26]] For-141 The decision is not taken. That's too bad. Dear colleagues, let's do this in this way: let's assign a committee, together with the relevant authorities of the executive state, to prepare information for the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the organizations, the structures of the enterprise that are in the territory of Kiev-Pecher Lavra, so that we can then work together to determine what we should do. I ask you to prepare such a written commission, including for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations. [[on the right of holders of simple shares to receive dividends]] The rapporteur is Pavelovský Andry Mihajlovich. And from the committee, who will be speaking? Alexy Plotnikov, right? Under the reduced procedure, there's an offer here. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[12:08:46]] For 215 Decision taken. Andrew Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u137	Andrew Pavlovski, “BUT – “Fatherhood”. Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished fellow MPs! In your view, a bill of amendments to the Act on Shareholder Associations is proposed. [[on the right of holders of simple shares to receive dividends]] Ladies and gentlemen, in Ukraine, some 13 million people own shares of businesses that have been acquired in the course of voucher privatization. And many of them are not once like dividends, nor have they received any money from their shares. Each time the owners of large shareholdings, supervisors, decide not to distribute profits, leaving millions of people with nothing. Although according to the Civil Code, members of agricultural societies have the right to participate in the distribution of profits and to receive their share as dividends. However, the current legislation does not have a norm that provides for a definite, mandatory payment of dividends and their minimum volume. In practice, this is an abuse by the shareholders who have a controlling shareholding, their right to determine the distribution of profits. Therefore, with this in mind, and for the purpose of social justice, it is suggested that the decisions of the shareholders’ congregations determine that no less than 30 percent of the net income of the reporting year goes to dividends to owners of such simple shares or, as they are called, minority shareholders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u138	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Voropeyev, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the bill is on the agenda of the committee, which will meet next week. It has not yet been considered on the Committee. And as far as I know, there is a document addressed to the Supreme Council on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u140	There's no document for the Supreme Council. The bill was registered in 01.10.2009. The committee could have looked into it a long time ago. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u141	He was assigned to the subcommittee, who was supposed to be in charge, and I was looking at the bill and studying it. If you don't mind, I'd like to report it to you then. I would like to draw your attention to the proposal that the author of this bill amend two things. The first thing is to oblige shareholders to pay dividends, regardless of whether there was a meeting, no assembly, no annual report approved, not an annual report, but to pay dividends of at least 30 per cent of the profits. Who determined it, as it was defined, is not writing anything about it in the bill. And the second point is proposed in the bill, if there is no profit and there is no way to divide it, then it is proposed to share the reserve capital that is created to enable society to cover losses, which is also nonsense. Therefore, I shall personally recommend to the committee on this bill that I vote against. And I suggest you do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion. Please sign up. May I see the names of the national MPs? Alexander Steshenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to draw attention to how long this bill is being considered in the Supreme Council. It seems to me that today is exactly the time that we could accept it in the first reading, we would promote both the work of the committee, and the work of the session hall, and so we would solve this urgent problem by the fact that the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration supports the concept of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u144	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! The bill of a colleague of Paul’s certainly deserves attention, and it raises an extremely sharp question. But I want to remind you all that, under the Shareholders Act, such dividends have been paid, more than that, the state has set a percentage of – 25 percent of the mandatory distribution. And when a member of the state who had a share of the state came to the stockholders ’ congregations, he insisted on this 25 percent. What happened next? In 2005, when changes were made to Ukraine’s 2005 budget, all the preferences of a domestic producer were eliminated. And the domestic manufacturer, including metallurgical complexes, had to find money for technical resupply. I remind you once again, the preferences were in the following. If an industrial enterprise was protected by an investment plan and showed that it would import new technology, new technology, new equipment, it shouldn't have paid any taxes, more taxes on added value. These preferences were eliminated. As the ancient historian Victor Pinzenik then said, “We will sink the fat of the oligarchs. ” We submerged: AutoZaz stopped and was forced to invest $150 million from the South Korean company DEU. You understand what you're talking about, what you've redistributed. So what is Paul’s fellow worker right for a thousand percent? Millions of people who have placed their certificates somewhere today are coming with us and asking where the company with such a beautiful name is and where my dividends are. If this is the case, this is certainly true of the issue of the return of lost savings. And when it comes to giving up 30% without a shareholder's decision, it's not normal. And one more thing. The author said that the control pack is not making a decision. But look, the decisions, the congregations, when they accept what dividends are to be sent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u146	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u147	When decisions are made to set aside funds for technical resupply, it is controlled. Not only is he the supervisor of the board of observation, but he's the tax officer and Minfin, the other government structures. So today, as this bill is written today, it is appropriate to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u148	Yuri Carmazin. The "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u149	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone today have information about how some shareholders operate, and does any of the so-called minority stockholders have access to any information at all today? No, it's not, it's evidenced by the press, the statements that people are making to us. So obviously the question is. Article 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine all read that we are a social state. If we're a social state, let's say that the rule of law is, let's talk about what we have to set up by the state of order and coercion. And not just covering up people's choices, they're 13 million people. I think it's not a fully calculated figure, it can move and increase because it's right, in the context of the inflation that this government provides, it's absolutely possible. Because of this, the responsibility that is proposed for the stockholders' society -- to target at least 30 percent -- is absolutely right, the profit and the payment of dividends. Maybe this number should be discussed, maybe 25 -- let's watch, let's think. But this can be discussed in a second reading. And you can argue. The next proposal, which is absolutely appropriate for the order of the day’s annual congregations, is to make the questions provided for in these paragraphs, that is, the distribution and so on, the participation, and this is a binding order. And I'm going to remind you that we've written down these points, except for the 15th, they only change here. It's also the right offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u150	Finish up. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u151	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I listened very carefully, both the author of the bill and the rapporteur from the committee. Offers were made both to support the project and to reject it. But all those who expressed their support or rejected the bill claimed that there was a problem. The problem, however, is a challenging one, and this problem affects an extremely large number of people. And so if this bill even serves to solve this problem as a document that will motivate the authorities to find a solution to this problem, even in this case it needs to be supported. And what's more, from the rostrum, it's now thought that we're de facto restoring the standard that was before in the current legislation. So the faction of the Ukrainian company will support this draft document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u152	Yes, the discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Shareholders. [[on the right of holders of simple shares to receive dividends]] Registration number 5183. There's a vote coming. [[12:20:28]] For-154 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a motion to re-read the bill. Please be sure. [[12:20:54]] For-149 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions? Please. The Party of Regions is 5, "BUT - "The Fatherland" - 97, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 18, communists - 23, "The People's Party" - 0, non-fractional - 6. Dear colleagues, it is now proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on increasing liability for forest pollution]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[12:21:38]] For 203 Decision taken. Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Andriy Mikhajlovich Pavlovski, co-rapporteur – head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement issues Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u153	Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! Andrew Pavlovsky, please note. A bill to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences is proposed. [[on increasing liability for forest pollution]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have all recently witnessed cases where logging, logging, has been transformed into a natural garbage dump, where garbage has been systematically removed from populated areas in order to avoid the disposal of industrial and municipal waste. At the same time, forests are Ukraine’s national wealth. We have the right legislation, the Forest Code, and the violation of this Forest Code entails administrative responsibility. At the same time, in practice, we see that it is meager and funny, and it does not cover the way to environmental pollution, and above all, our country’s forest parks. Well, think about it, from officials, from 5 to 8 non-taxable minimums and from physical to 1 to 3 non-taxable minimums. Just tens of bracelets, that's funny. In view of this, it is proposed in the bill for damage to the forest by liquefied waters, chemical substances, oil, municipal waste from officials to take a fine of 50 to 80 untaxed minimum and from citizens to clean up forests and forest parks of 10 to 30 non-taxable minimums. So it's 10 times more fines that are now for polluting our forests and our parks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u154	Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. Please refer to the committee's decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u155	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, Honorary Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, discussed by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavlova, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. [[on increasing liability for forest pollution]] The bill is intended to increase fines imposed on citizens and officials for damage to the forest by liquefied water, chemical substances, oil, petroleum products, harmful wastes, waste disposal by amending articles 72 and 73 of the Code on Administrative Violations. The need to adopt such a law is due to the fact that forest pollution is so widespread today. Overall, while supporting the drafter's idea of a bill on the need to strengthen the fight against violations of environmental legislation, members of the committee also noted that the bill contained a number of disagreements that were noted and concluded by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate of the Supreme Council and with which the members of the committee agreed. In particular, it would be appropriate to impose an administrative penalty, for example, to address the problem of damage to the environment in the order envisaged in article 40**** of the Code on Administrative Violations and relevant articles of the Civil Code and Ukrainian Law on Environmental Protection. It should also be noted that the bill proposes amendments to only two articles of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations, while there is a whole series of articles in the Code, including more than ten, which are devoted to forest protection and forest protection, which would also need to be improved at the same time, but have remained out of the view of the author of the bill. Also, the above - mentioned articles of the Code of Criminal Procedure should be separated from the crimes provided for in articles 19, 245 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. The Committee is of the view that it is necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council that its subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further work. That is also the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. On my part, I would like to add that on the committee, we are ready to work out a draft law along with the author. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u156	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Eugene Kirilchuk, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u157	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of "The Motherland of Motherhood" of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Indeed, the question is very painful, very important, and urgent. You could accept it in the first reading and process it for the second reading, because even I have a whole range of suggestions, especially if you have fines and expenses, they should only be subject to local budgets that will set up order in place of those who have damaged to clean up these garbage dumps, because they build a house that doesn't do, they've picked up a car of building garbage and they've moved out and they've dumped it near the first forest. I no longer speak to the restorative and those tourists who walk in the forest are so polluted that they are ashamed to say that we live in Ukraine. Let's take it in the first reading. And the committee, together with the author, agrees to correct all the observations that we have from our administration, and we'll take it immediately, because that's what people are asking and asking for nature itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u158	Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u159	A word to General Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u160	Beams.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, Nobel said that civilization would die of its own garbage. Indeed, the problem is pressing because the country is becoming a complete garbage dump. And you could agree and go, let's say, to support the first reading of the bill. But there are some serious problems that I would like to stress. Problem one. The functions of public forest inspectors are, in principle, duplicated by members of public formations, which are provided for by valid legislation on the protection of public order and the border. That's the first one. The other one. The functions of the public forest inspectors themselves are not provided for by valid legislation. Thus, in our second reading, we may encounter the problem of 116 articles of the Supreme Council Rules. So I propose, under the record, that I assign the Committee on Law Enforcement to finalize the bill together with the author by defining the legal status of public forest inspectors. In that case, in my opinion, we can go out on second reading and keep this bill, which is essential for the social life of our country today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u162	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u163	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! Look closely at the text of the bill. He only offers two things. Articles 72 and 73 of the Code on Administrative Offences, amend the sanctions. Instead of 5 to 8 times 50 to 80. And instead of 1 to 3, write: from 3 to 7 non-taxable, replace with 10 to 30. That is, it is proposed that the author 10 times increase the sanctions for offences that damage the forest with liquefied water, chemicals, oil, and petroleum products! That is the destruction of the forest! Extermination of the forest! That's why they're not such big sanctions. What does the science department say? And it says, here, in the case of acceptance, there is a situation where, in the case of the commission of administrative misconduct, the social danger of which is less than the crime, there is a stricter responsibility. And there's a wrong conclusion. Why? Because there's a contradiction. Criminal code, it's out of date. We need to get the sanctions up there. And this law needs to be passed. By the way, Comrade Beales, I've always agreed with you, today I disagree. Because this bill has nothing to do with these public inspectors. This is a complexity that needs to be applied to the review of this outdated moral, physical, intellectual code, to which I no longer know how many times! Let's make complex changes to it! We have to save the forest, save the forest! Set these sanctions. The bill should be adopted in the first reading and amended in both the Criminal Code and in general before it is preserved. It's God's business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u164	Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! I signed up as if I were "against." Why? Because I want to go against what's happening in our country to save forests. And to support, of course, this project, which has no political character, and whenever our opponents, our colleagues, make wise laws, our faction supports. I'll tell you, I've been back from Carpathian for days and I've been going through the Kyiv region, through the woods and landings. You'd see what's going on in the Kyiv region. I'm not saying that the woods are down, nobody needs them. What's the big deal? It's anti-sanitary. And I remembered that while I was still in postgraduate, I was taking the students from Donetsk to Magdeburg, where they broke the tops of the woods, and they built brigades where they were collecting these peaks, where they were collecting little branches to save the forest and allow people to rest. Today, we cannot come into the woods with our family to rest. And if people come, they leave the fires, they leave the garbage, they leave the bottles. What's more, where people don't have garbage dumps, they throw it all out into the woods. Therefore, I believe that it is broken, my colleague Pavlovsky, a large layer of protection of our nature. And we need to think about the second reading of measures that would really involve the responsibility of people who are polluting forests and organizations. What's more, there's nothing to smoke to the people in Ukraine right now, we can give the population the right to go into the woods and pick up the rain forest, the fallen branches they take home, and the forest will be cleared. Therefore, our political power, the faction of the Party of the Regions, will support the Pavlovsky bill. For the second reading, it needs to be further developed and made a very serious law to protect our natural resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u166	Yes, a forest expert is asking, Shershun. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u167	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich. It is absolutely true that the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences for Today sets low material ties, administrative responsibility for damage and damage. And that's all right. In many cases the amount of fines does not cover the cost of the State’s damage. Unfortunately, there are illegal garbage dumps today. And that's very true. And here again is the right of our colleagues who have spoken today, that the bill needs to be redrafted. I agree that today's severe contractions are not a decisive factor in reducing the number of offences, so the state's policy in the area of responsibility for administrative offences cannot be reduced by merely increasing the size of sanctions in the form of a fine. The problem needs a comprehensive solution. But I'm asking you to accept it on the first reading, because we're going to work it out and make a doll.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u168	Please, Pavlovsky, and let us be determined. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for supporting the idea, the concept. In fact, if there's a reference to the same science and expertise, you can take them all into account, and what Mr. Carmazin said, and the Schershon, and take them into account in the second reading. And what Mr. Beales said about the public forest inspectors, this is a remark from another bill that does not apply to this bill. This bill proposes only to articles 72, 73 of the Code on Administrative Violations, adding fines, increasing fines by 10 times for forest pollution. And please go to Kiev for 100 meters, outside the city, and you'll see that there's plastic and a pile of garbage. That's where our kids go. You can't do that. Such fines should at least allow a person to think about what he does when he commits such an offence. Thank you for your attention and for your support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u170	Not Mr. Beales, and General Beavez agrees with your statement. I am voting on the proposal for support in the first reading of Bill 6141, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on increasing liability for forest pollution]] Please vote. [[12:37:10]] For 344 Thank you. The bill was passed. We're preparing for the second reading. And the last draft of the Act amending article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. [[on guarantees of social protection for teaching and teaching staff]] [[Registration number 6701]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:37:48]] For 196 Offer supported. Please, the author of the Bill, Andrew Mikhailovich Pavlovsky. Prepare Lichuku from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u171	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland". Ladies and gentlemen, you have a bill to amend the Education Act. [[on the strengthening of guarantees of social protection for teaching and teaching staff]] We all understand that one of the prerequisites for the development of education in Ukraine is to ensure a high level of social protection for scientific, pedagogical, simple teachers, fair pay and social guarantees. At the same time, let us also say that we all realize that the objective size of teachers’ earnings does not correspond to the real costs of their physical, mental energy for the sacred work they are doing in bringing up our future citizens. And the average monthly wage of the teacher is a little over 1,600 dollars, which is one and a half times less than the average wage of the industry. That is, the Education Law is directly violated, where such wages should be no less than the average in industry. And with the aim of overcoming this unfair breakup and providing social protection for science and education workers, the bill proposes payment to teachers, science and education workers every month: over 3 years – 20 per cent, over 5 years – 30 per cent, over 10 years – 40 per cent and over 20 years of pedagogical education – 50 per cent of the wage. There is also a proposal to pay for health care in the size of the official salary, but not less than three living quarters.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u172	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u173	Teachers in rural areas are offered free use of heating and lighting dwellings in order to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u174	Thank you. Please, a member of the Committee on Science and Education, Vladimir Ivanovich Lichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u175	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Vladimir Liczuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. A similar bill was submitted by the author to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 11, 2010, under number 6058, but was then revoked. This draft of the Ukrainian Law foresees an increase in the amount of allowances for teachers and academics over the years, per cent per month, per employee, per employee, depending on the length of teaching work: more than 3 years – 20 per cent, more than 5 years – 30 per cent, more than 10 years – 40 per cent and more than 20 years – 50 per cent. Set the payout to teaching and science-educated workers to help them get better at the rate of office salary, at least three living minimums for working persons on annual leave. Provide educational and scientific and educational staff of state and municipal education institutions with their applications for budget expenditure with annual material assistance to address socio-economic issues of the size of two living minimums for working persons. And to provide teaching staff from public and municipal education institutions working in rural areas and towns, as well as pensioners who have previously worked as educators of public and municipal education institutions in these communities, with free use of heating and lighting housing. In general, in support of the idea of strengthening the socio-economic protection of workers in the field, the Supreme Council Committee on Science and Education believes that the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 57 of the Education Act should be returned to the author of the legislative initiative for such reasons. [[on guarantees of social protection for teaching and teaching staff]] First. The question of increasing the level of pay of educational workers should be addressed in a comprehensive manner, while addressing the issue of increasing the level of pay of workers in other budget sectors. The other one. The subject of the legislative initiative did not provide financial and economic justifications and specific proposals for sources of expenditure. According to previous estimates by the Ministry of Finance and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u176	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u177	will require an increase in the budget spending of over 9 billion dollars. The proposed changes do not provide a significant boost in the prestige of the teachers ’ work, and all of these issues need to be decided on a step-by-step increase in the salary of the first tariff grade of the Single Tariff Network. The bill is not supported by the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports. Please send the bill for further processing. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u178	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Let's sign up. Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u179	Please pass the word to Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u180	Please, it's Catherine Samuel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u181	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of the bill. We are systematically voting for bills aimed at improving the status of teachers and doctors in general, the population of Ukraine. But I want to stress the following. Recently, the issue of the pension of pedagogical workers was considered. This is a question with a very large beard. And when we were looking at it, when BUT was in power and our Ukraine was the People's Self-Defense, they were very friendly about the bill. I am surprised when the position of Ukraine’s national deputies changes from your seat and your position in the state. With regard to this bill, the situation is exactly the same, this bill was drafted much earlier, when the authorities had BUT and our Ukraine as the People's Self-Defense, but at that time they thought it was necessary that the money was not in the budget and that is why the bill was repealed. Now, to, well, saline the Party of Regions, let's bring it in again. So I want to go to all the Ukrainian national deputies: either we're sincere and we're sincere about social rights and guarantees and teachers, and doctors and pensioners, or we're keeping our noses in the wind, like colleagues who are looking at questions today and they won't. Those who will not vote, and depending on where your leader is, that position takes place. Once again, the faction of the Ukrainian Company has consistently stood up for the position of teachers and we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u182	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u183	Eugene Kirilchuk. The "BUT Block" faction. Well, I understand the co-reporter was a member of the Party of Regions. I am now convinced that the Party of Regions will not support this bill. But I want to get away from the problems that there are in rural schools today. It's like we're doing a lot of teaching, and in rural schools, we don't have enough teachers. There's at least a little incentive for them to raise a little pay and pay. do not pay at least for the housing that is in the village and utilities. Let's help these people who don't have the law that their average pay should be compared to industrialists. That's a small amount. What is even nine billion? But it's a semi-voltage that's bought by the authorities. What are we discussing today? At the same time, the introduction of this bill can be written when it forms a new budget so that it does not break this year’s budget. From the following year. So the questions are all off. It seems to me that in this committee of profiles, most of them are a Party of Regions, and they won't support it either on the Committee or in the Hall. But we are obliged simply to vote on our conscience as a basis and to work on our second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u184	Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u185	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, how useful it is to read the bill, I want to tell you, especially when you criticize and say that the Ministry doesn't support it anymore. I want to see a minister who says, "Let teachers pay less." Or I'd like to hear a minister say, "We don't comply with the law." I emphasize that we do not comply with the law. Why? The Act states: “Pedagogical workers who work in rural areas and urban villages, as well as retired workers who have previously worked in and resided in these locations, are provided by the State with free use of heating and lighting housing within the limits of established standards.” I'm not going to quote any further. This is part of article 57 of the Education Act. Are you doing it? So if you say the Ministry doesn't support you, get out of here! And don't come into this state, and don't work here unless you're doing what's right. Now, how do we settle what's not in the budget today? And you say, it is not Paul’s business. It's absolutely none of his business to find out where to budget. Here we have Azarov, we have Jaroshenko – they have to look where. Now for justice. As far as justice is concerned, this law is to be passed only, Mr. Pavlovsky, entered into force on January 1, 2012. That's the first one. And the others. A criminal case must be brought against the current ministers. Mr. Pussy, do you see me? It's a crime statement. They don't comply with this law. Break a criminal case. And against Azar. For failing to comply with the rules of the law. And to the end. Your Honor, the cause of justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u186	Yuri Anatolyovich, I'm sorry, you can break your heart in half a second. If you stay calm, I'll let you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u187	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your humanity, thank you. So I'll remind you that on October 5, 2009, the government's 1130 decree was to put in place an allowance for teachers, teachers of general education and so on. There, 20 percent of the allowance was put in place. This was a small one, and not all of them, and it was just the first step. That's why I'm talking about those. Let's do the first step, let's do the second step, but let's do it from January 1, 2012. I'm addressing Mr. Chechchev. Since January 1, 2012, this does not violate the rules of the Budget Code of Article 27 and the State Budget Act. It's for the future if it's in your government. I don't see him there, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u188	Yeah, I'm looking at the board, but Pavlovski's in the way. I'm sorry, Kovalevska is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u189	Thank you. Julia Kovalevska, Party of Regions. I'm now addressing everyone who's listening to us, the TVs and the radios, and I want to explain why I can't support this bill. In general, we support the idea of improving the social welfare of our citizens, including teachers. But I would like to ask the author of this bill. Why didn't you raise the social security of the educators when they were in power before the economic crisis in our country? Two years ago, you failed these legislative initiatives and didn't vote. We'd be happy to vote for this bill if you hadn't left us such a broken budget, such a huge deficit of funds that we have now, and we're trying to deal with it. You may not have a large amount of money for nine billion dollars, but do you need to explain where to get it? We don't have any public budget expenditure calculations, is it unclear from which fiscal year is it proposed to increase the financial support of educators? The budget year has already begun. It's a pretty populist approach, but we'll be happy to raise the pay of the education staff, but we need to do this in a comprehensive way, at the same time as solving the issue of higher pay for workers and other budgetary sectors. So we can't support this proposed populist approach right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u190	The discussion is over, we will be determined. Carmazine, did you call his last name? We will vote and I will give you the opportunity, after the vote, to Mikhail Vasilovich. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 6701 amending article 57 of the Education Act. [[on guarantees of social protection for teaching and teaching staff]] [[12:53:42]] For-146 The decision is not supported. The factions, please. Party of regions, no votes. BUT 93, Our Ukraine 26, Communist 25, People's Party 2 Please, Chechetov's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u191	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich! We do have a different vision of Ukraine's future. If you see the future of Ukraine “in debt as in silk”, we see Ukraine as a powerful and prosperous democratic free Power. And we will never go to enact laws that do not have a resource base. We haven't counted with the children of war yet, a complete downturn on the wages of herbivores. If we are to produce laws that do not have a resource base, we really need to get everyone out of here. It's a disgrace to power. The law must therefore be adopted with a resource base, and there is no resource base. After the looted budget, which was left to the Government of Azarov, the holes must first be filled in the budget, filled in and paid in real terms, rather than beguiling people and naked populism. The election is two years from now, so the populist laws will be enough to pass, yes. Let's work for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-02-m0.u192	Chechtov’s colleague took advantage of the right to a replica. Carmazin called him his last name. We have fully implemented the plan for today, and we hope that we will continue to do so. Thanks for the job. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. At 15 o'clock, work on committees and factions. Tomorrow the session will begin at 10 a.m.
