ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:48]] Cards were registered in the 373 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I ask you to contact the Secretariat to see why the card doesn't work. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 1 to 4 February 2011. There were five plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 69 issues of the agenda have been addressed. As a result of their consideration, 14 laws and 21 regulations were passed. The 17 Bills were adopted on the basis of three bills that were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative. One bill is returned to the committee for further processing and the next submission for re-reading. 21 bills and 1 draft decree have been rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals, 2 laws have been passed in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. 93 parliamentary requests have been made. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Please, your performance. Get ready for Baburin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u2	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. Dear head, dear fellows! Every year, and sometimes every quarter, we face the problem of increasing the cost of utility bills. And every time there is talk of rising tariffs on electricity, heating, and other utilities, they have or are not the first positions in the news. And that's not surprising, because questions are affecting everyone, except for a little exception, and that's why they're important to everyone. The increase in prices for municipal tariffs is usually based on or not the lowest tariffs or rising energy prices in Europe. But such arguments do not support public opinion because they conflict with simple logic: the rise in the price of services is not adequate to the stated level of inflation or the quality of services themselves. After all, the Ukrainian consumer pays not only what is consumed but also those who lose their energy, which is literally poured into the earth because of the outdated equipment. And the question is, how can the European price for services justify the equipment and service levels that got stuck at 60 to 70 years last century? For example. Heat suppliers could be effectively controlled through fixed-house counters that determine the consumption of gigacalorium batteries. However, apparently not by chance, so far there are no such counters, since it is not convenient for appropriate businesses to do so. Another example. With basic logic, for example, I fail. The cost of exporting waste, which accounts for a large proportion of the tariffs on utility services, depends on the meter of the apartment, not on the number of residents. But the volume of this very waste of activity depends, not on the housing area, but on the number of people. So any state program should start with understanding every person's meaning. The alienation of the state’s approach to the economy from the interests of a person over the years has led to the collapse of citizens in energy - saving measures. And as banal as that may sound, the state and the citizen must become partners here. The population must be encouraged to save energy by the state itself. A person should be informed about all available ways and technologies that allow money to be saved. It's only because we understand the importance of the processes of using economic technologies at the domestic level that we will be able to grow to an understanding of the scale of the economy at the enterprise level, at the level of production. Consumption will only be reduced if both sides are interested: both state and citizen. The natural economy and savings of Ukrainian citizens would reduce the severity of the problem if they were given the opportunity to do so. Because even with a desire to save money, not everyone has access to new technologies. Today, real savings are available exclusively to the wealthy. For others, the same Jackets and the rusted pipes and cold windshields remained. Even the metabolizing of the walls of cartilage for many remains inaccessible. Therefore, the outcome is not seen in the sole increase in tariffs but in the creation of conditions where the common interests of the State and every human being would be implemented by common methods. The problem should not be translated exclusively on the consumer’s side. In Ukraine, the level of income that would allow citizens to invest themselves in the future is far from right in energy saving technology. The state itself needs to establish a system of preferences for those who want to save, including through state-owned targeted population lending programmes for energy-saving technologies. Applications are available, for those who need them, not for those who need them. In parallel with what is said in today's conditions, real competition in the housing market, public control and full transparency in tariff formation is becoming a priority. But in my opinion, the main thing is the immediate introduction of modern standards for the provision of utilities. The time has long come to forget old approaches, when it was too big for us to see statistics showing GDP growth, and incomes and expenditures are measured on a cosmic scale. We must finally realize that there is a man at the heart of public policy, not statistics. And it is because of the prism of man, because of his interests that he should.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u4	A person’s interests must go through the axis of public policy. Only by uniting efforts and providing opportunities for people can we build a partnership between the state and the citizen and thereby reduce the burden on family, local, and state.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u5	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Please, your performance. Vladimir Yavorowski, John Kirilenko, will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u6	The Ukrainian Company faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The first anniversary of the coming to power of the new political team, a new team that declared the construction of a quality new, principled Ukraine as a goal. I would very much like to believe that this sacred goal will be realized, but reality is not yet so optimistic. Consider the latest legislative initiatives: the Tax Code, pension reform, and the Equally Odystic Housing and Labour Code. All of these reforms, called reforms, are carried out solely by man’s work, not by the power of the State or the oligarchs. In other words, so far the movement is going in the opposite direction — that is, toward the further poverty of a person’s work, a pensioner, a disabled person, a veteran. We're very concerned about that. And on the Internet, a new confirmation of this dissatisfaction has emerged on the profile committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's what I'm talking about. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine registered draft Ukrainian Law No. 7562 on State Guarantees for Enforcement of Judgments in the Registration Sector. Now I want to warn those citizens who, having heard such a beautiful name, have been thrilled. I mean those citizens of the so - called tax categories who were forced to have relations with the state regarding the exercise of the right to benefit in court. Do not rejoice, for by this beautiful name, this bright package is another subjugation of power in relation to its destitute citizens. The point of the bill is this. The Cabinet proposes that all laws, from all the legislative bases, remove all specific benefits from the money, by transferring the right to save or eliminate the benefits, their size, and the period of granting exclusively to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This applies to a number of laws, such as the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection, the Law on the Social Protection of War Children, the Victims of Nazi Persecution, Chernobyl Law and, in fact, all laws, where there is at least a small amount of aid. In other words, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine set a course for the destruction of the social benefits system and, along with it, the veterans for whom it was a sort of lifesaving circle. Veterans feared replacing social benefits with inadequate financial compensation, and the authorities decided to act in another more radical way by simply eliminating the legislation on benefits. To make it clear to veterans how this can happen, I'm going to explain it in a concrete example. For example, the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection. the anticipated annual cash payment by Victory Day. It is now stipulated that their size should vary depending on the category of war veterans from 3 to 10 minimum pensions, although it is actually less paid. After this law has been passed, all the figures will be thrown into the trash. Then Kabmin will be able to pay as much as he wants, even though one single bracelet. That's it. And this lawlessness will be legal, and it will not even appeal to anything. Once again, I stress, I take a course towards the destruction of the system of benefits, here's the construction of a new Ukraine, such a respect, such respect and gratitude from the authorities to the veteran work, then to the blood of which all things are created on this earth. The faction of the Ukrainian Company and the Council of Veterans of Ukraine strongly oppose this barbaric, anti-veteran law and claim their readiness to fight against its adoption by all means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u7	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, Faction BUT – Fatherland, please give your speech. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u8	Honorable Presidium, colleagues, compatriots, today's year of new power, it is known that it began in this very hall of the new coalition, which today speaks tirelessly of victories and achievements, and in life other realities. Much has been done so far under the slogan: “Based and then.” The opposition is cleared to the root, the business is strangled, the social conquests of previous generations and times. How critical and offensive it has been to address the same pension reform. But it's clear to everyone, there's gonna be votes for it, because it's based on a killerly convincing argument that we have, when we retire, veterans, say they're still alive for a couple of years. From where? According to actual data, life expectancy in Ukraine is only 67 years, and for men less than 62 years. But the bitter truth is that today, more than ever, the mortality of the working population is enormous, more than 60,000 a year, young people and middle - aged generations die out, the first place in Europe at the rate of AIDS, tuberculosis, drug addiction, diabetes, health care, ecology, and nutrition. So how many, lucky ones, will live to the new pension ceiling? And you don't have to guess, one. Our faction demands that we immediately withdraw this raw material and seriously refine it. We're ready to help, although our position is clear and clear, we need to start with the basics, that is, the real economy, because the horse wasn't rolling there. Look at the agenda until you're going to do it. Instead, bills, such as free economic zones, are proposed. Fanfare is still plentiful about the new Tax Code, which is called the best, most progressive, under which all Ukraine is a free economic zone with equal conditions and opportunities for all. And all of a sudden, someone in the free zone needs to be even more relaxed. The recent developments are well - known. A large number of sausage shops were discovered, 25 cents a kilo of so - called parchment parchment, sausages and snacks were made all over Ukraine, and then all shocked at the reason for the health of children, and domestic animals fell into four bones. The highly esteemed author of the project can be understood. And we want Ukraine to have its own chastity. Last year, the city’s economy went up 240 billion dollars to a mountain of production. This is twice as much as the entire economy of Ukraine combined. But it's China. There, they do economics, they don't abuse laws, they don't have corruption. Another sign law that we insist on withdrawing again is the State's guarantee of court decisions. He's the killer. More than 7 million veterans of war, disabled persons, Chernobyl, and many other vulnerable categories have been deprived of State aid. The laws that guaranteed them social protection were passed from 5 to 20 years ago. Today, the country’s budget is 7 times higher than in 1996, when laws on the status of these people were passed. In those days, by the way, the price of food, of gas, was much lower. Yet, our colleagues then adopted these laws, protecting people. What are you doing now? Prices of everything grow catastrophicly. It is no longer possible for these people to live. And there's less than four million left. Are they doomed? Indeed, it is easier to carry out reforms and start with people. There are systemic shortcomings in the LHC – why solve them if tariffs can be raised. You don't have to count for gas, you have to get rid of the population. An empty treasury and a hole in the Pension Fund — such a tax car has already gone catalysed the entrepreneurs. Will all reformation continue to be based on such unjust things? We need to stop. Once again, we offer to listen to the government at our joint meeting on logic and prediction of what is being done. Are world events not a warning and a lesson? Another warning. In recent times, the unrestrained single - team machine has begun to cause serious setbacks. Almost 30 laws have been committed, and such a lack rate has not fixed a severe OTC on Banking in all previous times. Everything is dedicated, from the beloved Tax to the revolutionary breakthrough building. One reason is that hundreds of qualified lawyers are still fighting the battle fronts with Timoshenko, checking, counting, looking. They must now be restored to normal work, the fight against crime, and finally the preparation of normal, just laws. But from time to time, we can’t criticize you, Your Honor, but you can’t stop people from doing that, and their evaluation may not be delayed. And then what's October 2012? He'd be alive by summer! Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u9	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions, next will be Vladimir Moysik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! For the first time in the last seven years, our country entered a new year, not as a warship, without a reliable captain, sails and a clear understanding of where we are actually going, but under the flag of political stability, with the State pushing into strong, reliable presidential hands. On the issue of the date of major political developments in the next five years, the election of the President, the Parliament and the local authorities had finally emerged. In the coming, almost two years, there will be no political upheaval, no elections. The political life of the country is now flowing in a calm, predictable way, with no excesses and surprises. This means that there is time for systemic change that the country will not be able to live without. 2010 has become a preparatory phase for the concept of reforms, and the task of the authorities for 2011 has been to adopt a legislative framework for all planned, systemic changes. On this basis, the main objective of the Supreme Council for the next six months is to provide a legislative framework for reforms and to contribute to their most effective and painless implementation. One of the most important elements of the reform agenda is administrative reform, its aim is to force an official to work for the benefit of citizens rather than to use his position as private property to earn money and his own wealth. Therefore, in terms of administrative reform, we are talking not only about optimizing the structure of power, but also about a hard fight against corruption. If we do not break our backs with the existing corruption mechanism, in large measure, none of the reforms will succeed. That is why the President's final drafting and the relevant recommendations of European experts are the key task of the MPs in the near future. On the agenda of a number of other major reforms, and I would like to assure our citizens of this high rostrum, none of them will be in haste without the pre-emptive power of open dialogue with the people. The maximum transparency and broad debate is what we are building on in our reform efforts. Confirming the truth is an assurance of preparation for pension reform. The authorities are seeking a balance between the economic needs of Ukraine, the recommendations of national and foreign experts and the views of ordinary Ukrainians. During the discussions on the draft pension reform, the authorities rejected the tough version of the reform that it had undertaken in the countries of the West and in some CIS States. We have also found compromise on most of the social issues. The position of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, led by our colleague from the Party of the Regions, Vasili Haro, played a major role here. Tomorrow, 16 February, Parliamentary hearings will be held on the issue of amending pension legislation. The Cabinet will adjust the pension reform bill to Parliament and finalize it in accordance with the recommendations of the Ukrainian hearings. Education reform will be launched in 2011. There has been a serious debate in society on this issue, and it will fully analyse the existing laws registered with the Supreme Council. The objective of reform is to improve the quality of Ukrainian education. One of the regional and most important for Ukraine is land reform. The land issue has always remained a key issue for Ukrainians. We therefore need to take special care of the approach, with some of the world's best land and natural climate conditions, and we need to move the agricultural and industrial complex to a qualitatively new level of development, to make it competitive, effective. At the same time, it is a priority for the authorities that, once the land market has been established in Ukraine, only the citizens of our State have the right to acquire land. The position of the President is to prevent the landization of Ukrainian peasantry. We also have equally important changes in health, housing, energy and other areas. In conclusion, I recall one eloquent fact. In early 2011, two weeks apart, two world leaders spoke to the parliaments of their countries. His annual appeal to the Congress of Barack Obama, President of the United States, concluded with the call for unity of the nation: “We can go forward either together or not”, the President of the United States said. A few days later, a similar appeal came from President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine, “Come together for Ukraine!” he called in this room. So let us hear what world leaders are calling for us to do, to postpone the fighting and work together for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u11	Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, leader of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u12	Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! A year ago, Ukraine was given new authority, it came under the slogan "Improving Life Today" and with the promise to listen to everyone. During this year the Ukrainians’ lives have deteriorated, and they are clearly not going to listen to them. The government presents as its great achievement the building of a strong vertical. But have millions of citizens felt any benefit to themselves? For whom is this vertical? The first year indicated that she was working for herself, not for Ukrainians and the Ukrainian state. Never before has our authority been so distant from the people. Today, we see her dizziness from the success of the protests in society, because people only feel the deterioration in the situation in all spheres. Specifically: in the social – a sharp decline in the standard of living offered by the authorities to amend pension legislation, the Labour and Housing Codes are antisocial and will cause even greater protests; in the internal political sphere, monopolisation of all branches of government; in foreign policy, a sharp loss of the reputation of Ukraine as a free democratic state, we have the first refugees, massive criticism from Europe and the United States, questionable European perspectives. There are no structural reforms in the economy that have been discussed for so many years. Instead, government spending seeks to translate into ordinary citizens. Prices are going up from food to housing services. The tax code has been approved with fighting, and instead of facilitating the tax burden on the medium and small businesses, fiscal pressures are only increasing. In the humanitarian sphere, the authorities are doing everything they can to increase the division of society. The Ukrainian language is once again, as in Soviet times, on the cultural and ethnographic reservation. Ukraine’s history is rewritten for other people’s medications. One of the many denominations available in Ukraine is demonstrated. The government in the traditions of imitation democracy instead of dialogue with society is limited by monologue in command, as the maximum of demagogies of its individual representatives for the political talk show. Parliament is completely ignoring the opinion of opposition, which represents at least half of the country’s population. To be more reasonable, let me give you some figures from the fresh polling of the Center of Ludwig, held on January 27, February 2. 53 percent of the people in our country point to the deterioration of the situation in the last year. 60 percent – which has dropped the welfare of their families, three quarters of whom are sure, the fight against corruption is selective, or not at all. 56 percent believe that the level of stability that the authorities give as their main merit has fallen, and so on. Little wonder, then, that the attitude of nearly 54 percent of the citizens surveyed has changed for the worse. It is also only natural that 58 percent of people have lost confidence in tomorrow. More than 64 percent are not currently seeing their social prospects in Ukraine. And it's in peacetime. Because of this “wonderful” life, people are mass-voteing with their feet, “voting with their feet” also in their paws. Ukraine joins the world’s first five labor suppliers abroad. And in third place, Ukrainians want to get what's called Green Card to live in the United States. But many are willing to oppose it. In the event of a significant deterioration in life, 60 percent of those surveyed are willing to take part in various protests. In December 2008, this figure was only 44 percent. At the same time, the number of people ready for illegal forms of protest to defend their rights has also increased and reached 32 percent. These are unauthorized rallying, traffic jamming, street riots, and so forth. The numbers are very disturbing. Let me remind you of one phrase: "Rabbits are the language of those who have not been heard." And so once again, I urge authority -- pretty confident monologues, it's time to start a dialogue with society, because the pressure in the social can has already reached a critical point. If it explodes, Ukraine will finally break down. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u13	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the factions are over. Regarding the suggestions made in the presentations, I ask the secretariat to draw up appropriate letters or assignments. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the 22nd anniversary of the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan. I would like to welcome Afghan soldiers, including a group of Ukrainian national deputies, and to bow their heads to those who have not returned to their homeland from this war. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Honourable National Deputies, February 14, 2011, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputies elected on September 30, 2007, in a multi-mandatory national constituency that was included in the electoral list: The parties of the regions – Androsa Sergija Alexandrovich, Stepanenka Anatolia Anatoliyovich, Litvinova Vladimir Grigorovich, Evtuhova Vasil Ivanovich, Sotlus Pavel Stanislavovich, Zvarič Igor Theodorovitch; "Brezkina Stanislav Semenović" – "Brezkina Stanislav Semenović" – and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine – Vladimir Leshchenka. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, I invite the national deputy of Ukraine, Andros, Sergio Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u14	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u15	Please welcome Sergio Alexandrovich. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Stepanenko Anatoliy Anatoliyovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u16	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u17	Welcome, Anatoly Anatolyovich, dear colleagues! To make an oath, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Litvinov, Vladimir Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u18	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u19	Please welcome Vladimir Grigorovich. To make an oath, I invite Evtukhov Vasil Ivanovich, a national deputy of Ukraine, to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u20	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u21	To make an oath to the rostrum, I invite the national deputy of the Ukraine of Soltus Pavel Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u22	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, caring for the welfare and well - being of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u23	Welcome, Paul Stanislavovich. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zvaric Igor Teodorovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u24	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u25	Welcome, Igor Teodorovich. People’s deputies, Berezkin Stanislav Semenovich, are invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u26	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, and to taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u27	Hi, Stanislaw Semenovich. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lechenko Volodymir Aleksiowiovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u28	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, and to taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u29	Welcome, Vladimir Alexiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let us all join together in welcoming the fullness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the wish of our colleagues to work successfully in good health. [[Applause]] At the same time, dear colleagues, please listen to the message. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 59 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that he is part of the Communist Party's parliamentary factions. And I would ask all the national MPs to identify themselves with their factional affiliation and to submit the relevant documents. Honorable National MPs. It's already been decided, dear colleagues, so I'm going to make a message. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the origin of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Androssa Sergija Alexandrovich, Barwinenka Vitalija Dmitrović, Evtukhova Vasil Ivanovich, Zvarič Igor Teodorovič, Litvinova Vladimir Grigorovič, Soltus Pavel Stanislavovich, Stepanka Anatolia Anatoliyovich, to the MP of the Party of the Regions. [[Applause]] And at the same time, I'm asking the distinguished national MPs to identify themselves with the place of work, and I mean, in which committee you're going to be willing to work. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of a number of bills. May I have your attention, please? I am voting for a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the 140th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian poet, civil servant of the Forest of Ukraine. [[Larissa Petrovna Kosacz Flower]] [[Registration number 8099]] Please vote. [[10:40:21]] For 348 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, since the committee has considered this matter, I would ask your permission to make a decision at the evening meeting regarding the decision on this project at the evening meeting. Dear National Deputies! I'm voting for a proposal to include in the agenda of the day project a decree to honor the participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. [[Registration number 8093]] Please vote. [[10:41:16]] For 344 Decision taken. I ask the head of the committee, Anatoly Ivanovich, to consider this issue on the committee so that we can make a decision quickly. Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on facilitating the purchase of goods, jobs and services by the Agrarian Fund]] [[Registration number 8069]] For inclusion in the agenda. [[10:42:11]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Let's look at the issues that relate to the ratification of laws. We discussed this at the Conciliation Council. Wouldn't it be objectionable if we considered these problems by a reduced procedure, namely the issue of ratification? I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:42:55]] For 212 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the Adoption of Children is being announced for consideration. [[revised]] The rapporteur is a government-authorized official in the European Court of Human Rights of Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna. Correspondent is the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u30	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the Adoption of Children. [[revised]] In its time, Ukraine had been a party to the previous European convention. Now we're proposing to join the new editor. With which I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this convention contains rules and standards regarding material rights in the area of adoption, in particular, this convention is called upon to unify the legislation of the member states of this convention in part of the adoption, part of the requirements for adoptive parents, part of the right adopted to grant adoption consent, part of the right adopted to know of its origin, as well as of legislation on the consequences of adoption. In this case, inter-State cooperation within this convention is applied exclusively to the provision of information about the child’s individual and to the person who adopts. In this regard, we believe that the accession of Ukraine to this convention will contribute to the compliance of our legislation with European standards in this area and thus facilitate adoption and bring the issue of adoption into line with European standards. So we suggest we join this convention. This convention does not require changes to the current legislation of Ukraine. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u31	Thank you, too, sit down, please. Taras Viacheslavovich, on the committee’s decision
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u32	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the Adoption of Children. [[revised]] I would like to point out right away, because adoption is always a matter of some sort, and that's not what this particular document about inter-State adoption is about. This is another document, that document will be considered in the Supreme Council, but not today. This document lays down the basic rights of the child, the obligation of the State, the obligation of adoptive parents, the obligation of custody organs, and so forth. We studied this project in great detail on the committee. We've studied every question. We, Mrs. Lutkowski, asked questions at all points where there might be some doubt. And we emphasize, this project, this agreement does not pose any threats, it does not create any conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine, it only investigates and warns the rights of the child. In this case, our ministry, which was preparing for ratification of the ratification law, made clear, in accordance with the rules laid down in the treaty itself, that some comments were made regarding our Ukrainian legislation, where no particular form of family formation was foreseen through a declaration and so forth. There are no obligations here that can be negative for the adoption of one - sex couples and so forth. Our committee, the Ministry of Justice, the Committee on Rules, Legal Policy, European Integration, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administrations support the ratification of this agreement. And we ask for a unanimous vote, because this is really the protection of the child that is needed today to at least reduce the disadvantages that unfortunately occur in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u33	Thank you, you too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Eugene Suslov, "BUT is the Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the ratification of this convention. Because, in fact, there are big problems in this direction. We know that the Hague Convention was not supported twice in our room. So I would still like to go to the entire hall to support this convention, the ratification of this convention. Because, in fact, it's more positive, that European standards as children's rights will be maintained. So I urge the entire room not to politicize, but to support this ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u35	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u36	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Highly esteemed colleagues, the convention provides for the possibility of adoption of one person. At the same time, article 212 of the Ukrainian Family Code prohibits the adoption of Ukrainian children by foreigners who are not married. The second problem, which is the age difference between an adoptive child and a child, should be at least 16 years in accordance with the provisions of the Convention. At the same time, article 211 of the Ukrainian Family Code makes that difference at 15 years of age. There are other nuances, but at the same time the bill proposes to ratify the European Convention on the Adoption of Children with Warnings, which prevents children from being adopted in Ukraine by two persons of different sexes who are in registered partnership. We also determine that the body to which requests for information on adoption are to be addressed is the Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports. At the same time, article 18 of the Convention provides for States parties to adopt positions that are more conducive to the adoption of children. That is, if Ukrainian legislation contains standards that are different from those of the Convention but are better for the adoption of a child, it will not be a violation or a disagreement with those of the international instrument. As a result, all problems are agreed upon, and the Party of Regions will support the ratification of this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u38	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The proposed text of the Convention is very good that it is reviewed, and it is very good that Ukraine has made some warnings, that we see that although bits of it are going to be able to show some voice in the outer arena, Ukraine shows its own. Moreover, there are written things in the Convention that sound rather strange for Ukrainian legislation. I mean article 12 of the Convention, which speaks of the citizenship of an adopted child. It says that the participating states contribute to the acquisition of their citizenship by a child adopted by one of their citizens, and by the loss of citizenship that could arise as a result of adoption, it should be stipulated that they belong to another nationality or acquire it. However, according to current Ukrainian legislation, this article of article 283 of the Ukrainian Family Code has established that under an adopted foreign child, Ukrainian citizenship is preserved until it reaches 18 years of age. I believe that when signing this convention, I needed to pay attention and make a warning about this article and its actions in Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. I think we should have made a warning, and after we set off article 7, these are the conditions for adoption. Because there's this thing that's written down and allowed to adopt a child to a person who's in a registered partnership if there's an institution. We do not have it, so we also had to make such warnings. In general, if we say that there are more benefits or harm, there may be more benefit from ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, who of the factions who did not participate in the discussion insists on speaking? None. So, honourable national MPs, I'm going to put to the vote the proposal to make this decision with yet another clarification. Instead of the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee suggests that the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sport of Ukraine, be set up in connection with the change in the structure of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Is there no objection? Taking this proposal into account, I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the Adoption of Children, as revised. [[Registration number 0191]] Please vote. [[10:52:36]] For 288 Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I propose to you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the accession of Ukraine to the Protocol amending the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures. [[Registration number 0192]] The rapporteur is Head of the State Customs Service Kaletnik Igor Grigorovich, co-rapporteur, the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Cnerowil Taras Vjacheslavovich. Dear colleagues, you and I have made a decision to ratify a reduced procedure, and I remind you of that, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u40	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures, designed to harmonize and simplify customs procedures, promote the development of international trade, implement customs principles established in the GAAT and the WTO, which deal with customs matters. [[Kyoto Convention]] On October 5, 2006, the Supreme Council passed the Act of Accession to the Protocol amending the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures. At the same time, the representative of Ukraine to the EU was informed that, according to the established World Customs Organization, it was possible to accede to the Amending Protocol to the Convention only for 63 countries that already had the status of a treaty party to the Convention. In connection with the above, Ukraine was not granted the status of the treaty party of the Kyoto Convention. Ukraine's accession to the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures should have a positive impact on the development of Ukraine's external economic and economic activities and bring Ukraine closer to international standards, create conditions for simplifying and expediting customs procedures and for increasing trade with other countries of the world. The draft law was accepted without the attention of Mineconomy, the Minfinans, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously recommended it for adoption by the Supreme Council as a whole. Ukraine's accession to the proposed bill will allow the internal procedures necessary for Ukraine's accession to the convention. Please support the bill proposed by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u41	Thank you, Igor Grigorovich. Have a seat, please. Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil, please, on the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! In fact, after this project, after this particular agreement, we have made a decision on this agreement in due course. It was still, I think, in 2005, that we actually considered the issue. Sadly, however, there was no practice at the time when international treaties were being prepared by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And there was a mistake: it was not verified and clarified that Ukraine, as the first reporter had just said, was no longer entitled as one of the first founders of the agreement, as the founder of the agreement did not have the right to just join the protocol. Under the circumstances, we had to complete the ratification process of fully joining the international convention. And so today, in order for Ukraine to become a full participant in this convention, I think it's just a protocol decision of the Supreme Council, but it has to happen in accordance with our Rules. In this regard, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, having studied both the material part of the convention itself and the legal documents that are related, unanimously recommended that the Law on the Ratification of the Convention be supported. Similarly, we have the conclusions of the Budget Committee and the State Customs Service that the adoption of this law will not affect the income and expenditure portion of the budget. We have the conclusion of the regulatory committee on the compliance of the Rules of Procedure with all related documents. It is supported by the entire Committee of European Integration and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In this regard, I ask you to vote in favour of the ratification and to support the committee’s decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u43	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to express your thoughts, please sign up for the discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT – "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, our constituents, well, the problems of Ukrainian customs, of course, exist to this day and, unfortunately, the corruption at customs is so powerful that it can be said that Ukraine is in general explained by this corrupt belt because of our customs. And this is Taras Cranwell clearly said that this is actually a pure formality, because in the first version, when this ratification was adopted, but not in all the ratification canons, it actually worked so that it was really kind of a formality. But on the other hand, it seems to me that all the things that draw our government authorities, government authorities, all the things that draw us to European level, the more that's laid down in this document, the moments of improvement, not deterioration, but in general the improvement of the customs situation, I believe that we should vote for them. The Yulia Timoshenko Block supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u45	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u46	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be as concise as possible and I'm going to pay attention to just three moments. First moment. The bill provides for a new edition of the Ukrainian Law of 5 October 2006 on Ukraine's accession to the Protocol on Amendments to the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures," Taras Crnrowil said, and we need to make a new edition. One second. The purpose of the bill is to bring its provisions into line with international standards, which are necessary to ensure Ukraine's accession to the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures, as currently drafted. And that, accordingly, will give us an appropriate image at the international level. And the third moment. The adoption of the bill will ensure the creation of the right conditions for Ukraine to join the international convention, to an appropriate international convention in force, which will have a positive impact on the development of Ukraine's external economic and economic activities, which will ultimately add to our budget. A party of regions is in favour of ratifying this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I would like to vote on the proposal to approve the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian law on the accession of Ukraine to the Protocol amending the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures. Please vote. [[11:00:24]] For 312 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I offer you another announcement. According to the statement and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ivan Stepanovich, from the deputy faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, we are considering Bill No. 0193 – the draft Act on Ukraine's association with the Scheme for Class Certification of Grain Seeds, the Scheme for Class Certification of Corn Seeds and the Sorghum Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. So once again, we've decided that all ratifications are being considered by a reduced procedure. I invite you to the floor of the First Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics and Food, Mr. Dmitrovic. Please, two minutes. Prepare the Blackwolf from the committee. Well, if they don't want to go, we might as well not consider the issues that the President decides. Dear colleagues, there is no reporter. Let's move on. Is the next one? John Ivanovich, is the next reporter? Then let's now look at 0194, maybe the reporter will come along. If not, then we will be determined. Please, 0194, draft Law on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 174 of 1993 on the Prevention of Major Industrial Accidents. Reported the Head of the State Mining and Industrial Security Service, Hochottva Alexander Ivanovich. From the committee to prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u49	Dear National Deputies! The draft ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 174 of 1993 on the prevention of major industrial accidents was drafted by the State Committee for Industrial Safety, Labour Protection and Mining for the implementation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the State Economic and Social Development Programme 2010 and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovič. The main objective of this convention is to prevent major industrial accidents in the use of hazardous substances and, above all, to minimize their consequences. Today, in Ukraine, chemical dangers are associated with the use of potentially dangerous chemicals in businesses, factories, and facilities. A particular danger for the population is: ammonia pipelines, highway pipeline systems, complex oil and gas preparation, and so on. The convention’s requirements are applied to objects of increased danger, which include objects that are continuously or temporarily produced, processed, used, disposed of, used for one or more hazardous substances or categories of substances in quantities that exceed the limit of permissible quantities. The convention does not apply to nuclear facilities and enterprises that process radioactive substances, except for equipment used in these objects that does not handle radioactive substances; military objects, transport that is outside the site and that is other than pipelines. According to the convention, appropriate measures at the level of a high - risk object should include: identification and risk analysis, risk assessment, including consideration of possible interactions between substances; technical measures, including design; security systems, construction, chemical selection, exploitation, maintenance, and systematic inspection of the object. Thus, with the adoption of this convention, the employer will be bound safely in practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u50	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u51	manage safety and security during the manufacturing process. The bill agreed with all interested executive authorities and social partners. He was supported by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: Foreign Affairs, Social Policy, Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, and Environmental Policy. Also, in line with the conclusion of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 174 of 1993 on the Prevention of Major Industrial Accidents, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority may be ratified. Please accept this bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u52	Alexander Ivanovich, please have an interesting question. The convention was signed in 1993. Why have we considered it for so long?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u53	The reason, perhaps, was that there was no hurry to join European standards and laws of life.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u54	Please. from the Committee of Taras Viacheslavovich Crnowil
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u55	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft bill at its meeting and unanimously recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support it. I would like to point out that this is a rather uncommon case where we, by ratifying the Mopov documents, can say that they are not decriminal, but very specific saturated, they contain a number of very specific norms that actually create a new level of standards that improves the functioning of Ukrainian legislation. [[International Labour Organization]] This imposes certain obligations on officials, business managers, and business leaders who work in the areas mentioned above, where there is a great danger of accidents. And we have a whole well of these objects in Ukraine, and one of them has already been mentioned is an amiacoconduct and other things that can actually poison the vast territories of Ukraine. And security, international positions and international cooperation on this issue are very clearly regulated in this document. And that's why we didn't have any problem with the support yoga paper. The same is true of the budget committee’s position on what does not affect budgets. There is a positive conclusion of the management of scientific expertise, a positive conclusion of the regulatory committee, as well as the positive conclusions of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, the Committee on Environmental Policy, the Environment and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster to the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. So I think there are all the bases for us to unanimously support this document, which, really, not often, really improves our legislative base. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u56	Yes, dear colleagues, if you would like to speak, please sign in. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT faction. Prepare Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u57	Honourable Parliamentarians, distinguished voters! Since the state in which we live is technologically dangerous, and which has entered, in fact, into humanity's consciousness, first of all, its Chernobyl disaster, for us to increase this legislation, which will reduce technological dangers, for Ukraine and for Ukrainian legislation, is extremely important, very important. I'm just saying that, in fact, what's the point of this ratification document, but unfortunately, we can't change that in a one-sided way, it's not about what's not involved in these dangers, it's not about nuclear power plants. For us it's very, very important, for us it really is, thank God, God let it all end in Chernobyl, but we have a large number of reactors today under industrial security, and on the same hops, and on the same plane. And it is a shame that nuclear objects are not included in this convention, and that would be appropriate for us, for the Ukrainians, here would be very important. However, it still takes a certain step to keep an eye out. We have such dangers, and we have many of them. This is the same as the sea of Kiev, which hangs over Kiev, that is, there are such dangers in Ukraine. And I think this bill, it's not going to solve all the problems, but at least it's going to give us another key, complement our legislation so that it doesn't happen again. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will vote in favour of the ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u59	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The bill aims to adapt national legislation relating to objects of increased danger to European Union legislation by ratifying the International Labour Organization Convention on the Prevention of Major Industrial Accidents. Following the provisions of the Convention will help to prevent major industrial accidents caused by dangerous goods, minimize the risk of major accidents, and minimize the consequences of such accidents. At the same time, this will bring our legislation closer to European standards and standards. So the faction of the Party of the Regions. support the ratification of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of the Ratification Act of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 174 of 1993 on the prevention of major industrial accidents. Please vote. [[11:11:41]] For 288 The law is passed. We are considering Bill No. 0195 on the ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 176 of 1995 on Safety and Health in Mines. Reported the head of the State Mining and Industrial Security Service, Hochottva Alexander Ivanovich. Prepare for Blackwolf. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 176 of 1995 on Safety and Hygiene in Mines was drafted by the Ukrainian State Committee on Industrial Safety, Law Protection and Mining Care to meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the State Economic and Social Development Programme 2010 and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovič. To date, ILO Convention 176 has been ratified in most states of the world and has become part of national legislation. Since the convention provides for increased requirements for the establishment of safety and safety rules for mine operations, both for employers and for workers. Therefore, it will be urgent to adopt a convention that will, in turn, allow the full scope to ensure that the requirements of Article 43 of the Constitution are met, namely, the right to safe and healthy working conditions. The ratification of the convention does not require budgetary expenditure or foresee significant legislative changes. The bill agreed with all interested executive authorities and social partners without notice. He was supported by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs, Social Policy and Labour, on the issue of the Fuel Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, on health issues, on the budget, on the issue of the Rules, on parliamentary ethics and on the promotion of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on issues of European integration. The International Labour Organization Convention No. 176 of 1995 on Safety and Hygiene in Mines may also be ratified, in line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. Please accept this bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, Viacheslav Cnerwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow members of the National Deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting, studied the essence of the convention itself in detail, studied accompanying materials, and studied and appreciated the positions of other interested committees, interested parties. Our conclusion was unanimous: To support this ratification, since it only carries the positive, necessary to protect the labour rights of our citizens of nuance, circumstances. The only thing I want to do is warn myself. In this convention, unlike the previous novel, most of these things are already included in our legislation, as well as in regulations. They work in a formal way, but in the long run, specifically in the coal sector, in the mines at all and in the coal mines, we see tremendous disregard for these very principles. So there is even one hope that if we join an international convention, a certain responsibility that relies on that convention on us, a certain degree of responsibility with other countries, members of the International Labour Organization and the European Union, for which these standards have become standards, may move our officials and workers, mine owners and managers to comply with the standards already laid down in our current legislation and established in this convention. Of course, it needs to be ratified, since this brings us closer to civilized standards, this confirms our international commitments. And on this point, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I said, decided unanimously to support it. The main science-expert management supports the same. The Rules Committee states that there are no violations of registration. The Committee on Budgetary Questions states that there is no impact on the indicators of the State Budget. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour and the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, are also supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u64	Thank you, Taras Veacheslavovich. Is there a need to discuss? Besides Carmazin, nobody insists anymore? Then let's write it down. Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, Taras Tzarnovol, were told the correct words on the basis that many of the norms that are in the International Labour Organization convention are included and are in Ukrainian legislation. On the one hand, it is, and on the other, it isn't. Not exactly because there are some items that are not present in Ukrainian legislation that are important to the protection of miners. On the other hand, it was rightly said that not all the standards that are, which are valid, are fulfilled. And that's why joining our country, Ukraine, to this convention will help us to get into a more complex and systematic approach to a very big deal -- protecting the work of those who are at constant risk by their own work. And the fact that mining is one of the most risky is recognized not only in Ukraine, but also around the world, because it's very often in the news from countries where it would look like a much better mine safety system, but it's high enough. So if we can take it one step at a time, and I think joining this convention will allow us to step one step closer to the optimum framework of life protection, health, people who are constantly at risk, it will be a plus. Minuses on some of the anti-agreements about our accession to this Convention are not seen. So the faction of the People's Party will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u66	Thank you. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions, prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u67	Popescu, faction Party of the region. Masterful colleagues! The bill aims to increase the level of protection for mining workers from industrial risks. This objective should contribute to the implementation of the Convention's measures for the implementation of mine safety and hygiene policies, the requirements laid down in the Convention on the content of the legal and regulatory provisions for this policy, the implementation of mine safety and protection measures, and the improvement of employers' responsibilities in the area of worker protection. It should also be stressed that the scope of application of the Convention excludes all mines, with the term “chain” for the purposes of this Convention covering land or underground sites where exploration activities are carried out in the fields of beneficial fossil deposits resulting in mechanical soil damage and their production, with the exception of oil and gas, as well as preparation, including scrapping, milling, concentration or washing of mined mining. The ratification of the Convention will ensure the adaptation of the national legislation of Ukraine in the field of labour protection relating to safety and hygiene in mines in relation to European Union legislation. It is also important to note that the project is accepted without notice by the Federation of Ukrainian Employers and the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. As a result, the faction of the Party of Regions will vote in favour of ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u68	Please, Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u69	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable national MPs, of course, if this convention had been ratified by Ukraine since 1995, if all legislative acts relating to the protection of the rights of miners had been and were not made on paper, but indeed carried out, it would have been obvious that we would have had much less trouble in mining cities and much less casualties. I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that we really need this convention, and I'm very sorry that we didn't ratify it before. Article 9 provides for the duty and employers, employers, in cases where adequate protection against risk, accident or harm to health, including the impact of harmful conditions, cannot be provided by other means, free of charge for workers, protective equipment appropriate, clothing, if necessary, other means defined by national legislation. Provide workers who have suffered trauma or illness and medical care, transportation, and so forth. The same is guaranteed by other articles of this law. I would like to draw attention to this irresponsible attitude of the Ministry of Finance towards the drafting of this bill and the previous bill. Since this is already a system, I draw attention to the leadership of the Supreme Council for the improper preparation of these documents, including the previous document. Because of this, read on the fifth sheet of the same document, which was prepared by the same department, in accordance with paragraph 50 of the Cabinet Rules, the Ministry of Finance did not express its position on the bill within the specified time limit, nor did it provide all the grounds. As a result, we need to get on with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u70	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 176 of 1995 on Safety and Health in Mines. Please be supportive. [[11:22:55]] For 311 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we should now consider Bill No. 0196 on the ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on mutual recognition of rights and property relations since 11 August 1994. But there are some issues that need to be reconciled, so I'm voting on a motion to move the matter forward. Please vote. [[11:23:46]] For 254 Decision taken. I'm asking interested parties to settle the issues that are there so that we can determine the fate of this bill. We are considering Bill No. 0199 – Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on maritime shipping. Reported by Bondar Oleg Valentinovich, Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u71	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on maritime commercial shipping, has been developed with a view to carrying out the relevant internal public procedures necessary for the entry into force of the treaty and for the execution of the Cabinet of Ministers' mandate to approve the 2010 legislative work plan. The draft instrument is for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on maritime shipping signed on 12 February 2010 in Kiev. The draft act was agreed without notice by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. The implementation of the draft act does not require additional costs from the State Budget and the local budgets of Ukraine. The draft act is designed to provide the internal State procedure necessary for the contract to be valid. Given that the implementation of the provisions of the Agreement will create the right conditions for the development of maritime transport cooperation, I ask that you support only the draft act mentioned above. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u72	Thank you. Please, Taras Viacheslavovich, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u73	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously decided to support the ratification of the Act of Accession to the Treaty with the Republic of Croatia on Maritime Traffic. This treaty is largely based on the standard principles that exist in dealing with such treaties. I would like to emphasize that Ukraine has already ratified more than one such treaty, and we have the absolute benefit of that. Since Ukraine is a maritime state, it is active in this field. A number of benefits are provided for us with this treaty, including that the treatment of the courts of another treaty State corresponds to the treatment of its vessels, the identification of the seaman’s certificates, the regulation of liability and the limitation of liability within the vessel in territorial waters. The questions warned are, well, the first of these questions is about the standards that Ukraine is already implementing to other countries, including Croatia. In this case, we get preferences because we have the same rights in Croatian territorial waters, in Croatian ports. So this is where the situation is aligned. Clearly, according to our needs and interests, the issue of liability for crimes that may be committed by members of a ship’s team in territorial waters is being addressed and the points are being determined that, in the event of pollution of the territory and some other cases, there is no widespread avoidance of responsibility. This is all that suits our interests, our needs. There is no need to ratify this document with additional costs from the state budget. Supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the budget position of the Committee on Budgets is confirmed. He was considered by the Rules Committee, and so was he. And the Transport Committee is also asking for the support of this bill. Therefore, I would like to vote and support the committee's decision on ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u74	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Please, Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u75	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, in addition to what was said by the representative of the committee, I would like to say that a separate article, article 4 of this bill, is extremely important for Ukraine. I'll read it, literally one phrase. "The contracting parties shall take all possible measures, in accordance with the legislation of their States, to reduce the presence of vessels in their ports and to simplify the administrative, customs and other formalities applicable in these ports." I think that the experience of co-operation with Croatia, in which the customs of bureaucratic formal procedures have been significantly reduced compared to how this is happening in Ukrainian ports, will have a positive effect on this part of bureaucratic work in Ukraine as well, and not on the maximum level. And then there's the second moment. Part of what has been said. The advantage of this agreement is that the attitude, as was said, goes to both Ukrainian vessels in Croatia and Croatian vessels in Ukraine. This includes not only access to ports in accordance with Article 2 but also the use of ports for loading and unloading cargo, commercial transactions, and the use of all the services provided in ports. Thus, given the sufficiently civilized level of maritime trade in Croatia, taking into account the experience of the Croatian side in these matters for Ukraine and the signing of the corresponding agreement with Croatia, it will be advantageous in all respects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u76	Thank you. Popsicle, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u77	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! Our colleague Zarubinsky's speech, he asked me about it. I looked at the same two points. First. After this agreement has been ratified, the contractual parties should apply the same attitude to their own courts as to our partners. One second. This will simplify the administrative, customs and other formalities that will ultimately give us an economic effect. The ratification of the agreement and the practical implementation of its provisions will have a positive impact on the development of cooperation in maritime trade between Ukraine and Croatia. And they're going to set a precedent to solve these issues with other countries. The faction party of the regions will vote in favour of ratifying the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, from a faction that has not been registered. One minute, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u79	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I would ask everyone, if possible, to ratify this convention with a maximum number of votes. Because actually this convention does very positive things. In particular, it introduces a visa-free, virtually visa-free regime for people who have seamen’s certificates. So for Ukrainian sailors, it's easier for them to have a lot of fate. According to articles 6 and 7 of this bill, the holders of the licence of the person mentioned in article 6 may go to the shore without a visa, and they may stay in the city where the port of entry is located while the ship remains. And they also have the right, irrespective of the means of transport, to enter the territory of a State to board a ship, to move to another ship, or to return to their country. The more such covenants there will be, the more Ukraine will be open and the more the world will be open to the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u80	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Question completed. I put to the vote the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on maritime shipping. [[Registration number of bill 0199]] Please vote. [[11:32:59]] For 288 The law is passed. We are considering the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on Air Connection. [[Registration number 0200]] Reported the head of the State Aviation Service, Anatoly Antonovich. Prepare the Blackwolf from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on Air Connection was developed with a view to entering into force the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on Air Connection, which was signed in December 2009. The adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law will ensure the establishment and functioning of a reliable international legal mechanism for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral international relations between Ukraine and Brazil. The establishment of direct air connections will contribute to the development of the economy of both countries and to cooperation in the field of tourism, business relations, and the further expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. Ukraine’s draft law was agreed in accordance with the Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law does not require funding from the State budget. Please support the law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u82	Thank you, Anatoly Antonovich. Have a seat, please. Taras Cnerwell, first deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on February 2, this year, reviewed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on Air Communications and unanimously recommended to the Supreme Council that it support the ratification law. According to our conclusions, the law is fully in line with the principles of ICAO, the law is fully in line with the internal legislation of Ukraine and contributes to the development of relations between Ukraine and Brazil in this area. I want to remind you that Brazil and I have already acquired more than 70 contractual documents, which means we have a very good level of interstate relations, a very good level of legal certainty. In this case, it's about aviation communication. There are currently no direct lines from Kiev to the major Brazilian cities, but let us not forget. First. Ukraine's interest in South Latin-American development is growing. Sooner or later, both passenger and transport operations will begin, which are virtually impossible to conduct properly without a suitable contractual basis. In Brazil, too, serious, powerful, international sports activities will be taking place in the near future, where charter flights from Ukraine are likely to be directed, tourism relations are developing. And so in the near future, when direct communication begins, we will simply be obliged to provide such a contractual basis. It's very positive that in this case we've been able to work ahead of schedule, and by that time we're going to have all the relevant conditions that the agreement provides. The agreement meets all the standards, as I said, and does not conflict with Ukrainian legislation. Supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Budget Committee confirms that it does not affect the budget, and the Regulatory Committee speaks of its relevance. So there are no warnings. And please support the committee's decision and ratify the agreement with the Federal Republic of Brazil. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u84	Thank you. Are they desirable? Please sign up. Wow! Please, Karmazin Yuri, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u85	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Our faction will support this bill, even more so, that the position of ratification is a manifestation of the political order that the government has been conducting, which includes our faction, because this agreement was signed on December 2, 2009. Unfortunately, it took us such a long time to ratify it. That is why I would ask the government to maximize the deadlines for considering such agreements, especially since the parties signed this convention and so on with considerable delay. I remind you that the International Civil Aviation Convention was adopted in Chicago back in 1944. Of course, this convention will be extremely useful both for flight safety and for the recognition of certificates and certificates of flightworthiness of our pilots and will contribute to this. They're long gone, the special composition of the flight awaits this ratification, this convention. It must certainly be and will be reflected in the customs relations of our countries, because article 9 of the convention provides for exemption from customs and taxes, but in a two-way version. That's why I'm also asking you to ratify this convention, support this law, and the government will do whatever it takes to keep similar conventions in place for 1.5-2 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u86	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. After him Bondarenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of Regions will also support this bill. And I want to support that point of view that was expressed by the first deputy head of the profile committee, Taras Cranovil. The relationship at the international level between Ukraine and Brazil can be a model for us how we can develop, because more than 70 acts that we have made with Brazil say that our direction is the right one. One more. Dear colleagues, notice, this is about ratification of air connection. You know, in Ukraine, small Embraier aircraft are now being used successfully in Brazil, and Ukraine is one of the six countries in the world that can make from design to aircraft, from drawings to engines that are being produced by the Motorsic Company. Therefore, this is of vital importance to us. In addition to the general content, the meaning of this. signing this. The ratification of this Convention, I want to remind you that we are also dealing with positive social consequences, because the development of such cooperation, especially direct air connections, gives us. Adds new jobs to us, adds new wages and deductions from these wages. So I would ask whenever we discuss a convention, whether it's meaningful or not. In this case, it is not just ratification for ratification, but ratification because it will benefit both Brazil and Ukraine. In addition, this will have a positive impact on the development of international cooperation. Air connections and, in addition to social ones, will have positive economic effects. So I propose and encourage the session room to support the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on Air Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u88	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT-Batychina faction. He's got Zarubinski Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u89	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear friends! The proposed law for ratification is extremely important in one aspect. This mentioned the possible cooperation we might have had in aircraft construction. It's a completely flawed thing, because Brazil is a big industrial country, and it's also a great technology. Well, sometimes they're competing with us in the armory, and in the aviation they took the sector where we're not competitors, so some problems could be solved together. But Brazil is a large diaspora country for Ukrainians. There are over 300,000 Ukrainians living there, these people would like to keep in touch with the Fatherland, be here, and our Ukrainian relatives would be able to visit Brazil. Today, flights to Brazil are made through three major airports, as is the case in Europe, namely Amsterdam, Paris, and Frankfurt. Sometimes flights between flights from Ukraine, and this is usually air companies or Air France, or KLM, or some other company, they drive to Europe, then there are six, seven, eight hours people there are waiting to be sent to Brazil. This is very embarrassing, although it must be realized that moving to such a remote country also requires flying to a European port, then 14 hours in the air. And one more thing, we need experts to look at Brazil's internal legislation on internal flights, and planes can come to São Paulo, or maybe in Rio de Janeiro, or in other cities, the country is very large. And in the middle of Brazil, it's very different when you get some of the passengers out of the plane, and some of the passengers get there. From the point of view of the fight against terrorism, I think today, well, until they feel that kind of danger, they should also think about it. But in general, this convention needs to be ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u90	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u91	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, had to make some dissonance with those statements made by the predecessors, on the grounds that Brazil is a pattern of trade and economic relations for us. It can't be a pattern because the potential of relations with Brazil isn't used, I don't know, not half or maybe ten percent. And not only because analysts today claim that Brazil is part of the so-called four most dynamic developing countries, the so-called BRIC, where Brazil is next to India, China and the Russian Federation. One of the four countries and, by the way, in the famous last Davos, the greatest attention was paid to these countries, including Brazil. So to say that we've achieved everything and that this is obviously not quite correct. And in this regard, of course, air connections, including direct air connections, could help. Because we know so stereotypedly in Brazil of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, some of the schools are obviously still remembering the Brazilian capital, and they are developing new regions, industrial regions, including not only on the Atlantic but also on the Pacific coast, to which we do not simply fly, even through Amsterdam and other European large airports. But I took the floor not to do that, but to say what could be the free air connection when the prices in Ukraine for airplanes are higher than the prices for the best airlines abroad. I'm not talking about the level of service anymore. And so using the presence of the Head of the State Aviation Service here, I'd like to ask a question. Can we talk about real air free transportation for many Ukrainian citizens with such monopolistic prices? I think that's what I need to do. Because Lüfthanza, already Air France, prices are lower than Ukrainian planes. What is it? I think we should answer that. And the covenant is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u92	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to ratify the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on air links. Bill 0200 registration number. Please vote. [[11:46:32]] For 304 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we've postponed 0193. There's a reporter. We are considering a draft Act on Ukraine's association with the Scheme for Grain Seed Certification, the Scheme for Class Certification of Corn Seeds and the Sorghum Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Registration number 0193. Reported by the Deputy Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food, Tregubenko Sergey Mikolayovich. Prepare Tarasa Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u93	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Your attention is drawn to the draft law drafted by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy in accordance with part two of article 9 and part one of article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. To carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of 8 July 2010 to develop a project on the National Doctrine for the Development and Reform of the Agro-industry complex of Ukraine and to implement priority actions for the development and reform of the agro-industry complex. Approved by order of the Minagropolitics from 12.07.2010 number 409. The purpose of the bill is the legal settlement of the issue of Ukraine's accession to the Scheme of Class Certification of Seeds of Grains and the Scheme of Class Certification of Seeds of Corn and Sorghum, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development for International Trade. Seed Schemes of OECD Economic Cooperation and Development Organizations are officially recognized as a tool for certification and simplification of international seed trade. The accession to the OECD will enhance the State's authority on the path to integration in Europe. And the introduction of the OECD seed schemes in the internal market will allow for increased varietal purity of the native seed material, increase the yield of the main agricultural plants, and open the way for seedlings of Ukrainian crop selection in the world seed market. I believe that the adoption and implementation of this bill will allow Ukraine to integrate into an international marketing network of seeds, to reduce obstacles to the movement of seeds between States. Because the OECD seed certificate is recognized in 60 countries around the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u94	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u95	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft Ukrainian law introduced by the President of Ukraine on Ukraine’s accession to the Scheme for Grain Seed Certification. Schemes for the certification of corn and sorghum seeds, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and unanimously decided to support this ratification law. We're really, we're sorry, we've been a little delayed with the transfer to the Supreme Council since November. But I want to remind you that this is an extensive, powerful, serious document, a few hundred pages, some serious lectures that we've analyzed in an article. And it comes from the fact that the introduction of these standards does not conflict with Ukrainian legislation, given that this gives us the right to enter the seed markets, the seed markets, it gives us the opportunity to participate fully in OECD structures. And what the document provides for precautions on the possibility of uncontrolled arrival of hybrid seed or genetically modified type, we think this document is useful to Ukraine. The document clearly reflects the specific, separate requirements for hybrid seeds and so forth. Therefore, under these circumstances, when today Ukraine is uncontrollablely imported whenever today Ukraine does not actually have any rights in this market and cannot normally develop a field of seed development, and enter international markets, this bill is useful to us. It's supported by the Committee of European Integration, agrarian politics, the Scientific and Experimental Authority. It envisions using the government budget annually, totaling 3,000,269 euros, to be implemented in accordance with the Ukrainian Budget Code. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u96	Thank you. Please sign up. Please, Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u97	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. As noted, the main objective of the OESR scheme for the certification of seeds is to encourage the use of seeds of an unalteringly high quality by the participating countries of these Schemes. OECD schemes authorize the use of seed labels and certificates produced and prepared for international trade in accordance with established principles. It should also be noted that the success of the Scheme depends on the close cooperation between organisations and enterprises that grow classes that are suitable for certification and specially authorized bodies in participating countries. In particular, when seed reproduction takes place outside the country of registration of the variety and a specially authorized authority has issued a permit for such commercial reproduction, the manufacturer should consult and maintain close contact with the specially authorized authorities of the countries concerned. The certification of seed under OECD Schemes, which is distributed to the member states of this organization, the UN and the WTO, which have joined in the schemes and issuance of the single class documents for seed, will enable Ukraine to integrate into the European marketing network for seed on equal terms and to participate fully in international seed trade, will also contribute to the restoration of seed production traditions. For example, in the Chernobyl region of the Soviet Union, we had the Soviets who did this alone, they were always millionaires. Therefore, ratification of this agreement will also lead to positive economic effects not only on the level of international trade ties but also on the internal market. Thank you for your attention. A party of regions will ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u98	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Act concerning Ukraine's association with the Scheme for Class Certification of Seeds of Grains, Schemes for Class Certification of Seeds of Corn and Sorghum, Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. [[Registration number 0193]] Please vote. [[11:53:55]] For 284 The law is passed. Yes, dear colleagues, let us move on to a second reading of the law. There is an offer to consider and then announce a break. Bill No. 0884 is under consideration. [[second reading]] Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the regulation of the activities of banks]] Yes, from the committee we have Poluniev Yuri Volodymyrovich, please. Rules are three minutes in advance, and then we'll go through the articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u99	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The need for the adoption of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the need to regulate the activities of banks is due to a number of important reasons. First of all, it is necessary to bring Ukraine's Banking and Banking Act into line with the legislation of the European Union and other laws of Ukraine. In addition, the adoption of amendments to the Banking and Banking Act on ensuring disclosure of information about the real owners of banks is one of the commitments of the Ukrainian side to the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy, which is set up in conjunction with the International Monetary Fund of the Stand-by Programme. The bill was prepared for second reading by a working group at the Committee on Finance and Banking of the Supreme Council, which consisted of Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the National Bank of Ukraine, banking associations and expert experts. Some 10 meetings were held both at the Committee and at the National Bank of Ukraine. It should be noted that experts from the international organizations of the European Union were also involved in the drafting of the second reading bill. It can be noted that the text prepared for the second reading of the bill is fully in line with the provisions of the Basel Principles and the EU Credit Directive, takes into account the comments and recommendations of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and agrees with the expert experts. The project foresees, especially the following. Mechanisms and procedures for the identification of real owners of banks are being introduced, and specific requirements are being laid down. The amount of information about owners of a significant bank to be given to customers is increasing, and the responsibility of owners to hide information about themselves is being published and strengthened. The process of acquiring and increasing significant participation in the bank is changing. And the bill foresees a change in this order to. According to the report, a person who intends to have a significant share in the bank is obliged to report this to the National Bank of Ukraine three months before acquisition or increase. Along with the report is a complete package of documents that enables the applicant to identify and conclude on his business reputation and financial status. The minimum statutory capital of banks is set, which is primarily due to the need to protect consumers of financial services and customers of the bank. The Committee recommends the adoption of a bill by Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine on second reading and in general. [[on the regulation of the activities of banks]] Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if I understand correctly and I do not understand correctly, you will correct me, all the amendments except for 20 and 23 amendments by colleague Arjevetina are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u101	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u102	Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u103	Yes. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u104	So, please, Arzhewite's 20th Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that last time this bill was removed only because article 116 of the Rules was violated. Nothing has happened since then. And now, essentially. It's for the stenographer. My amendment No. 20 was drafted on the proposal of the President of Ukraine, more faithfully, to his Economic Reform Programme, where President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine said that we should raise our own capitals of commercial banks. Accordingly, I prescribed a standard. I would like to remind you that this is very clever in terms of the President's program. This is how Europe lives, which determines the stability and reliability of the banking system, not as a statutory capital measure, but as an indicator of the availability of capital, or regulatory capital. I've worked it out. So I ask, Your Honor, to support my proposal, considering that it is coming out of President Viktor Yanukovich's program.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u106	Thank you. The President's supporters are getting bigger. Yeah, what's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u107	The committee considered Stanislav Mikhailovich's proposal and believed that the position outlined in the bill was true. But on this subject, there is a point made by the national MP, Voropeyeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u108	So let's first figure out 20 amendments, and then I'll give Voropeyeva the 23rd. So the committee does not support this amendment. The author insists. I'm voting on the 20th amendment of Arjevetin. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:59:52]] For-35 Correction not supported. And please, the 23rd amendment, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u109	Dear National Deputies! I understand that you're going to be offered today to change 500 million statutory capital for the active, for the newly created banks, I understand, by 120 million for the banks of all. So I would like to remind you that my 23 - article proposal specifically referred to what we should be talking about in terms of regulatory capital rather than statutory capital. And I'd like to remind you of statistics. That today, if we talk about 120 million statutory capital, 75 banks don't. And that's going to go up 70 percent. It's going to take almost 4 billion in crisis conditions. I would like to remind you that once again there are 50 million dollars in Europe. We're going to have 120 million dollars here today. And in Europe, it's eight years. We're up to three years old. So when I vote for this rule, I also ask you to take my comments into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u110	Yes, the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u111	Ukraine, unfortunately, is not yet Europe. And the quality of the bank's capital in Ukraine and the quality of the assets are very different. The committee therefore believes that the statutory capital of banks needs to be increased, primarily in order to protect bank customers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! Calm down. Yuri Volodymyrovich, let's just not use the term that Ukraine is not Europe. Ukraine is in the center of Europe. Yes, I'm putting 23 amendments to Arjevetin's vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:02:01]] For-44 Not supported. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u113	Before the faction vote, there is no regulation. Please, what point did Voropeyev make, to what article? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u114	I would like to draw your attention to the ambiguity of the proposal in our society to increase the statutory capital of banks to 500 million bracelets. So, in order to remove the tension, we, I suggest the following. I suggest in two, in article 24, this is page 15 of the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u115	What kind of correction? The repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u116	This is Amendment 16. Sphenov, the authors of the Polunee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u117	It's counted, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u118	Yeah, she's accounted for. I propose replacing the figure of 500 million bracelets with 120 million bracelets. Similarly, article 31 should be dealt with in the same way as article 31. () [[B in m in s a l in]] With article 31 of the Act, this is the 19th Amendment of the Spanish and the Poloneum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u119	Yes, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! This is according to the Rules because national MPs have the right to make observations on those amendments that are taken into account and to make their proposals. So it's counted. It is counted, but everyone has the right to object to this amendment because he adopts the law, adopts the law, not the committee, but adopts the law of the Supreme Council. So let's talk about this proposal, this proposal. Please sign up, please sign up for factions. Yes, please, Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! I would like to draw attention to the proposal made by Voropaev only where further clarification is required. Well, first of all, we need to understand that there are 5 million Euros of statutory capital in Europe -- we are increasing our banks to 10 million Euros, that is the first. Second, it takes some time for banks to actually go through this procedure. It is my understanding that there is a three-year procedure for this rule to be in force. If all of this is really in the amendment that Voropaev said, it could be supported and agreed to, in the final version, to enact the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u121	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u122	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is now being enforced for four years. And now it's aimed at destroying Ukrainian banks. I object to amendment number 16 and ask my colleague Arjewitin to elaborate on this proposal. Please give him your word, Arjevetin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u123	It's not a word, but in Arjevetina one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u124	Honorable national MPs, Voropeyev's proposal and what the Efraemov deputy has said can only be accepted on one condition if the Pryce positions do not have a term of 3 years, not 2 years, but a term of 5 years, and I'll give you an argument. Today, this rule does not apply to 75 banks. 75 banks. They need 4 billion dollars in crisis conditions to increase over these 2-3 years, which is almost unrealistic. And I would like to remind you that in these banks, 75 banks, tens of billions of Ukrainian citizens' investments, tens of billions of deposits in legal persons' deposits. In a crisis, I think the term can only be accepted for at least five years. For the record. If there is an increase of 30 percent in Europe, at least 8 years are added to Basel-3 in Europe. I'm asking you to give the five-year standard a good compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u125	Bondarenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u126	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u127	Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u128	Oleg Lazko. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, Your Honor Alexander Sergiyovich, I would like to address you. It's more likely that your faction, which stretches through this law, will talk about the fact that this law will allow the banking market to be monopolized. I'd like to talk about something else. Now it's about millions of Ukrainian citizens. These banks, which will be squandered after the adoption of this law, hold almost 4 million Ukrainian citizens there. Before you vote now, I want you to clearly realize that by voting, you're actually destroying these banks by putting up 120 million dollars of bank capital or 500 million dollars, or 120, as a colleague of the Europeans suggested, and as a result, people who are working and serving in these banks are going to suffer. I want you to understand that clearly. Because you've already given people permission to borrow currency, today millions of people can't repay these loans. Now you're actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u129	Yes, please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u130	The committee believes that the proposal of MEP Voropeyeva can be supported, and it is precisely meant to take into account, on the one hand, the interests of these banks, which are referred to by Deputy Arjevetin, on the other hand, that we are guided by the fact that weak and undercapitalized banks are a threat to our investors, and we need to strengthen them. Three years is enough for these banks to either increase their capital or merge or find themselves an investor. And this amendment is being adopted for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, please calm down. The oligarchs are human too. Dear colleagues, be careful. It was noted that up to 16 amendments had been made. My colleague Voropeiev insists that we vote for her confirmation. So the committee took it into account, the National MP has a denial. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on a proposal. Who's in favor of supporting the committee's 16th amendment, where the sum is 500 million dollars, please identify yourself. [[12:09:30]] For-0 No one supported it. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move forward in this way that the 16th and 19th are related to the entire text. What we're voting on is that we didn't support 500 million throughout the text because this amendment didn't go through. So when they're working editorially in the General Legal Office and in the Committee, they'll take that into account so that we don't vote. Well, every page. We define the concept with you. Now, please. So 500 million didn't pass. It was a proposal from a colleague of the European Union to replace the figure of 500 million with 120 million. I'm making a proposal for a statutory fund. The bank's equity is in the balance. Yes, Voropeyev, please. Come on. Years are a different offer. Wait, we're numbered first. Let's figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u132	I'm offering. Don't you hear me? I propose to vote separately on the 16th amendment and to vote separately on the 19th amendment. Because they are. The 16th relates to the capital of a branch of foreign banks, and the 19th relates to the statutory capital of Ukrainian banks. So let's do it separately and there, and we'll vote 120 million instead of 500.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u133	Yuri Mikolaiovich, you must have heard me wrong. I said that the figure “500” does not pass. The number that we're going to vote on right now is going to be all over the text, both in 16th and 19th. Do you understand? Yeah. So the number that we're going to define with you is going to be set for the entire text of the law. I'm voting on a proposal for 120 million dollars. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:11:36]] For 207 The offer is not supported. Yeah, hold on. Now there was another proposal that responds to the sum. It's about how many years we set up, allowing banks to bring their statutory capital to the figure that we're going to set. One proposal was three years, the other was five years. So I'm going to put these proposals to the vote. I repeat, who makes such an offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u134	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u135	All right, Easy insists on the third proposal -- eight years. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, dear colleagues, we'll be, we'll be determined and put to the vote. We will put the proposal to the vote: three years, five years, and eight years in order to submit proposals. Who's up for three years, I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[12:12:56]] For 211 Yes, for five years, please identify yourself. [[12:13:19]] For 226 Thus, dear fellows, passed the propo. There will be no more, because the vote is held until it achieves a positive result, there is a positive result, we do not vote anymore. So you and I voted in five years. So let's take this step right now and make this proposal to take 120 million and five years into account. Please vote in favour: 120 million and five years. [[B in m in s a l in]] One-hundred-twenty-five, please. Vote. [[12:14:09]] For 209 Yes, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please calm down, calm down. You and I have decided on a five-year term. Now we have to figure out the number. Please sign up for a number, and then we'll listen to the committee's opinion. Please sign up. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u136	Pass the Soboljevo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u137	Soboljeva microphone please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u138	Sobolev, "BUT is the Fatherland, the Reform and Order Party." Dear colleagues, what are we doing now? Do we have any idea what we're voting for right now in the session room? A half-billion, 120 million, someone says -- a billion, someone -- 50. But where is the head of the National Bank, so that we can at least look him in the eye and let him know that every number is behind us -- the proportion of millions of our fellow citizens or tens of thousands of businesses that have money directly in commercial banks. Everyone understands what's going on right now. Some Ukrainian banks are ready to sell to foreigners. The higher the size of 500 million, it is predicted, the easier it will be to sell them. Because it's going to be hard to set up such banks. So those who didn't vote have to understand, this is the adventure that the author, who is now standing in the rostrum, and the head of the National Bank. Such things cannot be voted on without economic justification. Our faction will not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u139	Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u140	Please give the word to Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u141	I think colleagues may not worry, we consciously understand what we are doing and what we are voting for. And we understand where we can go if you don't vote. That's probably what you're going to do. So I ask all those who really understand the importance of the decisions that we are making right now to uphold the norm: 120 and 5 years. To return and vote in favour of this rule. I think that this issue will be accepted by an absolute majority of bank representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u142	Please, Anatoly Gritsenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u143	Dear colleagues! Monopolization is absolutely unacceptable, I ask for the arguments of Paul Zebrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! We really don't have any banks, because no one is going to need them, unless the regulatory capital is raised to that plank they're talking about, they're just not going to be liquid in the market. And they're actually going to die. And in large numbers, enough people will be affected. We're talking enough about European integration, if we're preparing our legislation, if we're harmonising our legislation with European legislation, it would be right and logical to actually be the statutory capital of 50 million dollars. These include municipal banks of cities, including systems banks that companies are opening today. Actually, that's the norm, a billboard raised that can be overcome by the 85 banks we're talking about. I urge that we, after all, listen to the Europeans.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u145	Exchange of thoughts, please, from the Committee of Jury Volodymyrovich, what is your opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u146	Dear National Deputies! I ask you to reject emotion and excessive rhetoric, this bill was prepared for second reading by a whole group of serious professionals and the National Bank and international. I want to make it clear that the bank's capital is primarily needed to protect the investors and the bank's deposits. And if the bank is undercapitalized, then the owners don't have an insurance reserve to cover the bank's investors in the first place. The tendency to increase the size of the minimum statutory and regulatory capital is a general, global trend, and. recommends this. We've suffered from a financial crisis, we've seen our investors' turn to banks. The only way out of this is to raise statutory capital. The National Bank offered a high bill of lading, found compromise. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not play the submersible here, 50 million and so on. Let's vote in favour of proposal 120.5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u147	Please, Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, if you speak compromises, that's five years from now, which can really determine what the market will look like in two or three years. And I think the deputies of the next call will be able to re-evaluate the state of the banking system two or three years after the crisis. And you could either leave that five years and 120, or you could make some other suggestions. So what I'm proposing today, given that we're finding and looking for compromises, is to agree to 120 million statutory capital for all banks at 5 years of age. I think in a while, the MPs will all go straight back to that standard. So I'm asking you to support this compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for the sake of clarification, I would like to remind colleague Sobolev that Poluniev is not the author of this bill, he will report on behalf of the committee, this is the second reading. Poluniev will report as secretary to the committee, from the committee, he's not the author of the bill, he's the reporter, so you don't have to blame him. The other one. Dear colleagues, we have indeed found the best compromise in this room, which is that we are delaying the entry into force of the figure that we are about to confirm for up to five years. Third. You can agree that banks are good, but 180 banks are probably too bad. And so we have to settle that banks take care of themselves, that's very good, but first of all, let them do their job to those who created and who feed these banks, in front of those who invest their money. Unfortunately, we only protect banks and bank capital by forgetting those who created these banks at their own expense. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal I've been making to go back to voting, the compromise we've found, 120 million years and 5 years. Please vote back on this proposal. [[12:22:02]] For 247 Thank you. 247. I emphasize once again, my dear colleagues, we've found reasonable boundaries, let's support this proposal throughout the text where it has to do with this, write down 120 million and the term 5 years. Please vote 120 million and 5 years. [[12:22:37]] For 237 Copy that. Once again, to work on the final edition, if we accept it as a whole, that throughout the text, not to vote any more separately, throughout the text, the figure, where it is needed instead of “500” - “120 million” and throughout the text where “3 years” were used, “is set a 5-year term”. [[And I hope it does.]] Yes, dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in the whole bill under number 0884 - to amend some of the laws of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals we have supported. [[on the regulation of the activities of banks]] Please vote. [[12:23:40]] For 230 The law is passed. Thank you, Your Honor. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 55 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. We're continuing the morning session. A draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other States is under consideration. [[concerning the assembly of subsections]] What are the suggestions, Anatoly Stepanovich? We can do it on short notice. Now, now, I'm going to ask the committee head. Can't we do it in a reduced procedure? Yes, the committee is proposing a reduced procedure. I'm making a motion for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:57:08]] For 171 Offer supported. Please, Mikhailo Bronislavovich Ježel, Minister of Defence. Prepare Grizzen from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u151	The President-in-Office, the Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act of Ukraine amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states, has been developed by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. [[concerning the assembly of subsections]] The bill provides for the replacement of a contract for the conditions and arrangements for the conduct of military service in a military unit sent to another State, with the addition of a contract for the conduct of Ukrainian citizens of military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. According to an existing legal and regulatory base, military personnel who are deployed abroad in military units, apart from a contract for the conduct of Ukrainian citizens' military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, contract terms and procedures for the conduct of military service in the composition of a military unit sent to another state. It also excludes personnel and military service officers from the categories of military personnel who may be assigned to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who are assigned to other states. The implementation of the draft Law does not require additional costs from the state budget. The National Security and Defence Committee of 12 January 2011 approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill on the basis of first reading and, taking into account the Committee's proposals, as a whole, as a law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u152	Thank you, Mikhailo Bronislavovich. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko is head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u153	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, this bill is correct. His point is this. First, peacekeeping contingents are exclusively voluntary and exclusively contractual. Second, no additional contracts, only additions to existing ones. And third, not more than a year. All of it. Our committee has supported this initiative of the government in an unanimity manner and recommends, because there are no observations in fact from the Scientific and Experimental Authority, if agreed, to vote both on the basis and immediately on the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u154	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? You don't? Dear colleagues, the situation is clear. Can I make an immediate proposal to the adoption committee as a whole as a law? There's one sentence. Is there no objection? Then, with your permission, I'm putting to the vote a motion for the adoption of the Amendment Act to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Referrals of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to Other States. [[concerning the assembly of subsections]] [[Bill number 7415]] Please be supportive. [[13:00:58]] For 295 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex is under consideration. [[on budgetary allocations in support of the development of home machinery for the APC]] [[Registration number 5403]] Can we consider it as a simplified procedure? I'm voting on a motion to review the reduced procedure. [[13:01:39]] For-189 Offer supported. Please invite Klimenko Alexandre Ivanovich, the author. I can't see him. Yes, from the committee, Marina Volodymyrna Perestenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex. [[on budgetary allocations to support the development of domestic machinery for the Agro-industry complex]] [[Registration number 5403]] Since December 3, 2009. Ukraine’s draft law was introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Alexandr Ivanovich. The bill is designed to implement the State Industrial Development Programme for the development of modern rural technology, food and processing equipment, and the preparation of agricultural machinery for new farming conditions. At the same time, the bill has flaws that affect the content of other laws in Ukraine. Thus, part of the changes envisaged by the bill affects the formation of the State budget of Ukraine. According to the committee, the project envisions the following. Untimely extension of the benefits, expansion of the number of enterprises benefiting from the benefits, establishment of a fixed percentage of the total government budget. The financial and economic justification for the project does not contain the necessary calculations on its impact on the country's state budget for the current year and for the following years. The bill needs an expert opinion on determining its own size of its impact on the income and expenditure portion of the budget, its ability and terms of validity, as required by the Ukrainian Budget Code. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes that the bill should be finalized. The committee reviewed the bill at the meeting and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be sent on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u156	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u157	to develop the subject of the law of the legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u158	Thank you. Have a seat. Is there a need to discuss? None. Then, with your permission, here are two suggestions. The committee is to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development and the same conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the bill submitted needs further work. I'm going to start by putting support on the first reading as a basis. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:05:01]] For -14 Not supported. The proposal is made by the Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to direct the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. [[13:05:26]] For 211 We didn't make it? Who's in charge of coming back? [[13:05:51]] For 249 We went back to the vote. There is a motion to put Bill 5403 to the bill, namely, Klimenko’s colleague for further work. Please vote. [[13:06:20]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, whose experience with beards in particular, we do nothing wrong, is the norm. So don't make it up. Dear National Colleagues, there is a delegation of the Seima and the Senate of the Republic of Poland headed by the Deputy Marshal of the Seimas of the Republic of Poland, Jerzy Vanderlich, who participates in the fifth meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland. Let us welcome the distinguished guests, wish them a fruitful visit to our country, and the bright impressions of the hospitable Ukrainian land. [[Applause]] The draft Law 4289 is under consideration, amending certain laws of Ukraine to clarify the arrangements for the creation of a multi-family housing unit. [[Registration number 4289]] Short cut? Please vote on the proposal for a reduced procedure. I can't, because it's a proposal from the deputies, you have to put it to a vote. [[13:07:41]] For 208 In fact, she got 208 votes out of the required 150. Offer supported. Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, please the author of the bill. Get ready for Lisova.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u159	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The purpose of this bill is to improve the legal and regulatory arrangements for the creation of a unit of joint owners of apartment buildings. Today, such changes are relevant to legislation. It is necessary to grant the right to form a unit of joint owners of real estate that are located in one or more apartment and one apartment buildings, nonresidential homes, houses, houses, garages, and garden buildings located on a common land or adjacent land, and to establish this in the Civil Code of Ukraine. The founders and coowners of the multi - apartment building must be the owners of apartments, rooms, and uninhabited accommodations. Taking into account the adoption of the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Individuals of Entrepreneurs, we find it impossible to conduct a national registration of associations on the basis of the state registration of multi-household associations approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of 11.10.2002. the characteristics of the state registration of legal persons. The main scientific and expert office notes that the bill can be adopted in the first reading, taking into account the management's observations. The Supreme Council Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing Utilities and Regional Policy supports this bill and recommends that it be accepted as a basis. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u160	Thank you. Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u161	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Construction, Urban, Housing, and Regional Policy considered Bill 4289 on amending certain Ukrainian laws regarding the refinement, order, and creation of a unit of joint owners of a multi - apartment building. The bill introduces some changes to the Civil Code of Ukraine and to 2 bills, to 2 laws: the merger of co-owners of a multi-housing house and the privatization of a state-owned housing fund. The bill is being considered by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, our colleagues from two committees. And the Chief Research Administration recommends that it be accepted on the basis of observations. Our committee considered and unanimously also made a decision to take as a basis, to propose to the Supreme Council to accept as a basis the refinements of the positions and observations that have been made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u162	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Is it? You don't? Yes. Then I'd like you to sign up. Please, Moses, the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Get Bondarenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u163	I'm asking you to give it to Volodymyr Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u164	Yes, please, Bondarenko has the opportunity to speak for four minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u165	Dear friends! Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. The bill regulates some of the problems that exist today in involving citizens in the management of housing funds. Many of the troubles that today are in the housing and utility system is that once the state was in control of all of this, and now nobody is in control at all. The role of JECQ as a mediator between a citizen who uses housing services and those who provide them is simply to raise money and transfer it. Any change, no choice of citizens. So when we talk about the creation of such a unique union of citizens’ self - organization as a union of joint owners of apartment buildings, there are many issues that need to be settled: the singing of property on land, the co-ownership of nonresidential premises, and much more. But somehow a whole area of regulation of this legislation was thrown out of the way, which applied to dormitories and such maneuverable buildings, where it was also necessary to regulate the management system of these houses and these housing complexes. So in general, we need to support this bill in the first reading, as it allows citizens to be compared in the context of the 24th article of the Constitution in their rights, in particular in the management of the housing fund, because it is only such associations of multi-house owners that allow for a clear question of how to take away that service organization or that management firm that will take out the garbage, clean the house, provide other services. Without that, we can see the state of our housing. So our faction will support this bill, it's generally useful to society, and I ask other factions to support this bill first reading, and in furthering the final adoption, we will also make proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u166	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the 4289 bill, which amends some of the laws of Ukraine to clarify the way in which co-owners of a multi-housing house can be formed. The Committee's conclusion: to accept as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also supports this proposal. Please vote. [[13:14:24]] Z-87 Not supported. There's an offer: Send the author for work. Please vote. [[13:14:45]] For 262 Thank you. Decision taken. The bill is sent to the author for further processing. We are considering a draft Act amending article 210 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve criminal liability for breaches of budgetary legislation. [[Registration number 4427]] There is also a letter from the committee on the transposition of the bill until June-July 2011. Shall we consider it? Who's to move, I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[13:15:40]] For 269 The bill has been passed, but it's probably not the best decision we've made, because. Well, let's see. We're considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities. [[on strengthening the protection of human rights]] [[Registration number 5002]] There is also a letter from the Committee on the transposition of this bill into June-July 2011. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:16:31]] For 261 The Committee's proposal has been moved. The issue is being addressed, the draft Act amending article 217 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the duties of the investigator]] [[Registration number 7044]] The author, who is the chairman of the committee, suggests that he be considered by a reduced procedure. Please make up your mind. [[13:17:12]] For 227 Offer supported. Please, Sergey Grigorovich Mishchenko. Get Moses ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to introduce you to this bill, although it's already been presented before. The essence of this bill is that of the following. To the investigator. prevent the investigator from falsifying a criminal case. When the criminal case is over, this criminal case is described. And these materials, this description has to be given at the end of the investigation, it's proposed by this bill, it's given to the victim or his representative. You know, six months ago, we voted by almost 400 votes in favour of the amendment to article 218 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code that this list should be given to the accused or his lawyer so that it would not be possible to sew the criminal case, to provide any other evidence or material. Parliament was then fully and almost entirely supportive of the bill. The Scientific and Experimental Authority recommended that, when this bill was passed, it amend 218 articles. They've been introduced, they've been voted, they're working today, so that the level of rights in the criminal trial has both the defendant and the victim, and that's why these changes are made. And so I ask him to accept it as a whole, not as a basis, but as a whole. Because neither the Scientific and Experimental Authority has made any observations to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u168	Thank you. From the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement, Moysik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u169	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Sergey Grigorovich and I are speaking on this bill for the third time from Parliament's rostrum, on the first reading, and on the second reading, when I reported no comments to the bill, and we don't know what the political situation was making the law rejected. And the point is that the author of the bill, Sergey Grigorovitch Mishchenko, when the investigation was completed, approved the rule that the investigator was obliged to give the defendant and his lawyer a copy of the material of the case upon request. It's not a copy of the case, it's a description of what's in it to make it impossible to falsify. And by levelling out criminal justice, we propose the same rule for the victim of a civil suitor and a civil suitor. The committee's asking for support on both the basis and, in general, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration no longer has any comments to make today, because 218 has changed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u170	Thank you. Please note who wants to participate in the discussion. Please, Ivan Vernidubov, Party of Regions. Prepare Beahu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! We've probably discussed this bill a dozen times. There were first observations, the author corrected them, and now there is no reason not to accept them. It is needed, it is really challenged by the need to strengthen the protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of a citizen, and must be accepted. I urge everyone to vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u172	Thank you. Valerius Beaz, a faction of Communists, is to prepare Zarabinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u173	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. In fact, I am in favour of this bill because, on the one hand, it really solves purely technical issues, and on the other hand, it seriously protects the legitimate rights and interests of our citizens. That is why we also urge support for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u174	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u175	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorable colleagues, what happens and not rarely, abuse in a court of law is not news to all. Moreover, the Committee on Human Rights comes to the attention of so many appeals and letters about all kinds of manipulations, according to the correspondents, and the examination reveals that this is really so often the case, manipulation of the material of a criminal case during a pretrial investigation. Not only do some criminal material disappear, but other materials that have not been presented to humans suddenly appear. And so it seems to me that all that is relevant and all that is aimed at strengthening the guarantees of human rights and freedoms is to be supported by the Supreme Council. Because, really, I've gone through all the accompanying materials that are being submitted, there's no argument against this bill. There's no comment from the Science and Technology Administration, so it's obviously appropriate to support it today as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u176	Thank you. The discussion is concluded, indeed, here we can agree. Let's get one more situation straight. Science and expertise suggests that changes should be made not only in 217, but also in 218 articles. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it working yet? I see. Then let's, if there's no objection, immediately put forward a proposal that you've supported to adopt the Law on Amendments to Article 217 of the Criminal Procedure Code. [[on the duties of the investigator]] [[Registration number 7044]] Please vote. [[13:24:04]] For 329 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[Registration number 7113]] [[on Alleviating Conditions in Appointing Punishment]] The committee is Moses. For short, Volodymyr Romanovich? I'm making a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:24:42]] For 215 Offer supported. Please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u177	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Recently, you and I adopted amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Code to increase responsibility for family crimes and crimes against the family. The author of the bill, which for good reason is not available, Viktor Viktorovich Shemchuk, submitted a bill to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine to supplement articles 66 and 67. And they are talking about the circumstances that mitigate punishment, articles 66 and 67, the circumstances that weigh down punishments, and thus complement them with paragraphs, for there is already a list in those articles. “Violence in the protection of a family member or other close relatives is a circumstance that reduces punishment.” And in article 67, “Violent action against family members or other close relatives is a circumstance that burdens the guilty. The Law Enforcement Committee considered the bill. It is recommended that it be adopted as a basis in the first reading. There's a observation by the Science and Technology Administration, but it's more of a scientific position than a legislative argument. The committee therefore asks only in the first reading for a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u178	Thank you, Vladimir Ivanovich. Wanting to share in the discussion? Is there anything else besides Mishchenka? Nobody insists? Then, please, the microphone. Then Mishchenko and Karmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u179	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, note that it is proposed to change article 66 by adding a mitigating circumstance. This is a violent act that protects a family member or other close relatives. Thus we already have in article 36 of the Criminal Code the concept of “necessary defence. ” This relieves responsibility in general. A person who protected his family and his loved ones from any criminal offense. Then we tell his apiorists that he is a criminal, then we make matters worse for the person who protects his relatives and loved ones. It is not possible to accept it in this way at all. That's why I am. And if there's a limit to what you're doing. Exceeding, we have an 8th -- committing a crime of excess extreme necessity. So we can apply this 8 point. But in that way, we just, you know, narrow down the rights of our citizens. It's impossible to accept. He needs to be rejected at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u180	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u181	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. Honorable national MPs, like the man who worked for three years on the Criminal Code of Ukraine, say that Sergei Grigorovich Mishchenko is now not 100 percent right now. Because these changes, both in article 66 and in article 67, make matters worse. In particular, it is predicted that the situation that softens punishment will be the act of violence in protecting a family member or other close relatives. What about the protection of your property or your home? Obviously it will be. And the protection itself won't be? Of course it will. Therefore, it must be understood that this is now covered by an article of the current Criminal Code on the necessary defence, taking fully into account our legitimate constitutional right to protect our lives, honor, and other people from unlawful illegal violations. To say that more criminalize and complicate the situation of a person who has committed violence against a close relative cannot be said to be an increased social danger of such a crime. He's just like a criminal. That's why I totally agree with Sergei Grigorovich Mishchenk, and with the Science-Expert Authority, who felt that this bill should not be adopted. I'll say, well, with a lot of respect for the author, I think this bill should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u182	From the missing faction, Zarubinsky, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u183	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. I'm in the process of developing what my colleagues said, I'd like to make that argument. A certain category is chosen — family members and close relatives. What if a person protects a distant relative who is currently in his apartment in the house? What if he's a cousin, a cousin? According to valid terminology, a glossary, this does not belong to a close relative. What if a person is not so often, but he is courageous and heroic and protects an outsider who has been attacked by bullies? How are we supposed to treat this? So I think it's the exact time of the necessary defense that he's absorbing what a colleague of Shemchuk is offering. It does not diminish the importance of this idea that he proposed. But it's more legal and it's more consistent with the protection of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u184	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on Alleviating Conditions in Appointing Punishment]] [[Registration number 7113]] [[13:31:38]] For -6 The decision is not supported. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine is under consideration. [[on personal pensioners of local importance]] [[Registration number 6395]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:32:16]] For 216 Offer supported. Please, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich. Prepare Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u185	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I have prepared a bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. This bill is prepared to take into account the proposals made by war veterans and laborers and former personal pensioners of local importance. By the way, on my own, I had a man, a veteran of Galleyeva, who made that request. The same offer was made by my colleague Peter Stepanovich Zybenko. We worked together on this bill. The bill proposes to amend article 1, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Law on Retirement for Special Credits to Ukraine, supplementing its position that the right to a pension for special merit of Ukraine is equal to 20 per cent of the subsistence minimum for persons who have lost their jobs. In 1992, personal pensions of local importance were established. That is, today our veterans, who have pensions of local importance, have actually gone beyond the scope of the Retirement for Special Merit Act. Therefore, there is an appropriate proposal to support this legislative proposal. I want to say that 80 percent of these people already have State rewards, and they already have these pensions for special merit, so this number, it's not big, but it's people who have put a lot of money into our nation's development and we need to support them. The main scientific and expert management does not object to relevance by saying that adequate calculations are needed. The calculation is, the total cost of the proposal is 2.5 million dollars. But once again, this is more than 1.5 thousand of our republican pensioners and the local importance they have put in the nation’s health, strength, and development of our nation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u186	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u187	Please also consider that former personal pensioners, these people, are now 70 to 80 years old. These are deserving people and their pensions are usually about 900 dollars. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support our veterans and to adopt this law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, please sign up. Oh, I'm sorry. Mikola Kulczynski from the committee. Please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u189	The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons proposed a bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Reows to Ukraine, introduced by National Deputies Suškević and Cibenk, which was held on September 8, 2010. [[No. 6395]] As has already been said, the main expected result of the adoption of the bill is the creation of a level playing field in the pension system for former recipients of personal pensions. The Committee on Legal Policy reported that the appropriateness of the legislative proposal is undeniable because it is aimed at ensuring equal rights for individuals who are personal pensioners. The Committee on Budget Affairs, taking into account the position of the Ministry of Finance, reported that the bill had an impact on the spending of the State budget, increasing it, and should it be adopted not earlier than 1 January 2012 or 1 January of the following year, depending on the adoption of the law. The main scientific and expert management does not deny that it is appropriate to create a level playing field for recipients of non-Republican and local personal pensions and concludes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. In view of the above-mentioned committee, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends a draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine on personal pensioners of local importance, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Suškević and Cibenk, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. [[No. 6395]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u190	Thank you, Milo Georgievich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this bill. Andrew Schlell, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u191	May I give Mrs. Ulysses the Mikolayevna Mistipani?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u192	Ulya Mistpane, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u193	The mayor, the "BUT is the Fatherland" faction. My speech will be in support of the bill. It's long needed, it's in the hands of very respectable people, people who are getting smaller and smaller every day. The bill proposes to amend article 1, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Law on Retirement for Special Retirement before Ukraine, by supplementing it with the provision that the right to a pension for special merit before Ukraine shall also be enjoyed by persons who before 01.01.1992 have established personal pensions of local importance. The Law is proposed to be put into effect from 01 C.E. OJ L 343, 14.12.2009, p. 1. In 2012 Finally, the adoption of this law will create a level playing field for both former recipients of personal pensions and now. So I propose a legislative initiative to support and I very much hope that our entire faction and all the members of the Supreme Council will vote in favour of the additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u194	Thank you, too. Vladimir Karpuk, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u195	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We support the adoption of Bill 6395, which aims at maintaining a level playing field for recipients of personal pensions, i.e. granting the right to receive pensions to those persons who received local pensions by 1 January 1992. At the same time, I want to note and agree with the committee, because in the bill only two words “or local” are added, i.e. to consider it, only to accept it as a basis. Either we support this distribution of this right and we accept it as a whole, or we reject it. I offer to accept it as a whole. And there's another proposition. Since there are only eight bills left, plus the decision that Nicholas Tomenck and Martinyuk have proposed to work without interruption and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u196	That's a nice offer. Let us discuss it after we have finished our consideration of the matter. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u197	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! There is no doubt that any bill aimed at improving the material standard of living of our citizens needs to be supported. But I'm asking you, let's face the personal security issue, we're going to be able to deal with the balance and understanding of that deficit of the crazy pension fund that we have today. I'm asking you very much, but unfortunately, there's no Valery Assadchev in the hall. Remember when the bill on children of war was discussed? Asadchev then made reasonable warnings that this would end with this bill, that people would be mass brought to justice and that there would be no money to enforce the law in full. If we accept this bill, you just think, I get it, the personal pension of republican or federal importance, to compare local to personal or allied, it takes a lot of money. So I'm asking colleagues, let's support those bills that match the economic possibilities of the budget. Otherwise we're going to get a big one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u198	Finish up, please. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, finish your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u199	Otherwise, we're going to get a new problem, because trying to get elected isn't a social victory, it's turning into new problems, and it's depreciating the social costs. I propose that this bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee's offering. May I have your attention, fellow officers? The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. The main scientific and expert management is proposing to adopt a bill or to advise, more precisely, and is proposing to accept it as a basis. [[It's the same thing.]] I'm voting on the proposal. So let's see what the reaction is going to be, and then we'll figure it out. Okay? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. [[on personal pensioners of local importance]] [[Registration number 6395]] Please vote. [[13:42:07]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Sure. But what's there to put back on? Then we vote that the subject should be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further work. Let's do it this way. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to draft the bill. Please be sure. [[13:42:47]] For 135 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] The bill was rejected. Yes, dear fellows, the draft Law on Change is under review. Yes, honourable national deputies may have done so. May I have your attention, please? Perhaps this would be the case, complete the Tuesday schedule and then use the evening session to prepare for the parliamentary hearings that will take place tomorrow, as well as for committee work. No objections? We're making decisions, aren't we? A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the work of the Supreme Court of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 7447]] It's a short cut, isn't it? Well, they're proposing a reduced procedure, well, the initiative is, I'm putting it to a vote, and you're defining yourself by a reduced procedure to deal with it. [[13:44:15]] For-195 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Dmitry Mikitovich Pritika. Coroner is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee, Dmitri Yuriovich Sphenov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u201	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, is being brought to your attention by the draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the work of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. [[No.7447]] Honorary colleagues, the President of Ukraine, pointed out at the 10th consecutive meeting of judges that the taking of effect by the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and the status of judges does not mean that it will be amended. He said that further practical application of the law would show which of his standards needed improvement. Today, the practice of applying the law has shown that the status of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, as the highest judicial authority of the State, requires a clearer definition and further expansion of its competence. In particular, the law in force does not provide for the powers of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to explain to the courts the application of legislation with a view to ensuring the uniformity of judicial practice, as the Venice Commission has pointed out in its conclusion to this law. Article 39 of the law, although it provides for the presence of four courts of separate jurisdictions – civil, criminal, economic, administrative – but their competence does not determine. So it's suggested that the law be supplemented by article 44 with the "1" badge, which regulates this gap. In addition, it is proposed to improve the procedure for dealing with cases before the Supreme Court of Ukraine by identifying the categories of cases that will be dealt with by the courts and which will be dealt with in all the composition of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, or Plenum. It is also proposed to extend the mandate of the Supreme Court of Ukraine by granting the right to review the decisions of the courts of a case-law institution not only in cases of misapplication of material law but also in cases of infringements of individual procedural rules. Allowing the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine the right to generalize court practice and to provide guidance on the outcome of the review of court decisions on specific cases. Judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, who.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u202	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u203	It is proposed to create conditions for them to be transferred to other courts and to maintain the level of financial and socio-economic security established for judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The project also proposes to amend the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, the Civil Economic Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine. The amendments proposed by the bill will contribute to ensuring more efficient work by the Supreme Court of Ukraine and to the operational execution of the tasks provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine and in the Act on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. The Committee on Justice recommends that the bill be adopted in the first reading as a basis. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u204	Mr. Dmitry Yuriovich Sphenov, head of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u205	This bill amends the work of the Supreme Court of Ukraine into the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, all the procedural codes of Ukraine. According to the author, it aims to improve the work of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The Committee on Justice concluded that the bill could improve the procedure for handling cases before the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The Houses are being reopened in full, the Court will consider only some categories of cases and expedite the conclusion of the transitional period in connection with the establishment of the Supreme Special Court and the liquidation of military courts. Some of the provisions of the bill are intended to implement the recommendations of the Venice Commission, for example, to supplement the grounds for reviewing violations of the procedural rules on jurisdiction, and to submit complaints directly to the Supreme Court of Ukraine on grounds of violation of Ukraine's international obligations. The Justice Committee considered the bill at its meeting on 15 December 2010 and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill on first reading as a basis. The Chief Research and Expert Office also believes that the bill can be adopted on first reading, on the basis of a number of observations. The bill was generally supported by the Supreme Court of Ukraine and made a number of observations and proposals. Some of the provisions of the bill also reflect the position of the Supreme Special Court. In the light of the comments made and proposals made by the people's deputies, the bill will be finalized for second reading. Please support the Committee's decision and adopt the bill as a basis for first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u206	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion. Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovitch is ours. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". And then Alexander Steshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u207	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Not long ago, we approved judicial reform in this room, and for about three hours, I spoke out of place on my amendments, unfortunately none of them were counted, but I appreciate your vote. There's a law, there's a judicial reform, but then I said, Your Honor, there's a Constitution, this booklet is 15 years old on June 28, and it says that the Supreme Court of Ukraine is the highest judicial authority in the state. And then I pointed out that you're disbarring the court. Today I want to thank the authorities, Dmitri Mikitovich. There is a slight easing of judicial reform, and some functions are returned to the Supreme Court, but they are not enough, and life and practice will convince us. But I would like to draw attention to another aspect. In that law, these transitional positions referred to the fact that the Supreme Court is shrinking to 20 persons by natural election of judges, whether in resignation or not, for God's sake, someone has gone by will or by will of God. Today I call it some unfair approach to judges, because in a few months we've been writing with you, let's get on board, it's so rude, we're going to sow judges, and we're going to give this right not to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who appointed the judges of the Supreme Court for office, but we're going to give this right to a qualified commission of judges. This is unconstitutional. And yet another, respected colleague, is the immoral aspect of this problem. They're going to leave work to a judge who's barely 50 or 50. The state has raised excellent specialists for its expenses, and today, looking you in the eye, I say, in the Supreme Court, the possibility of a judicial error is ruled out, except in cases where they can be made consciously. So we invite these judges to resign, or the old law, to leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u208	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u209	Or under the old law, judges of the Supreme Court were asked to go to the district court, to the city, and so forth. Dear colleagues, these are surgeons of the highest legal capacity who operate on the heart, the liver, they don't need to be cut out in one place. So I would ask the room today if we conceptually support the first part of the bill, support it, and remove all changes to the final positions. Then it can be voted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u210	Vladimir Bondarenko, “BUT – Fatherland” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u211	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party "Reforms and Orders". The point is, dear friends, that this bill, in my view, is the culmination of cynicism. Frightened or frightened, or a bit of attention to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, are now being put in such a position as to retrace the so - called judicial reform. Its purpose was to destroy the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Someone suspected that his leadership was opposing. And then it was done. Today, it seems that several functions are returned, such as dealing with certain cases that have been dealt with in the courts of four jurisdictions, returning to the Supreme Court and reviewing them in the plenary, making perhaps even other decisions than those made in those institutions. And the second. The plenary has the right to give a treatise to certain decisions, to make certain recommendations, and so forth. But all of this is reversed by further positions of this bill, particularly those that will be brought before the Supreme Court, will be decided upon or allowed only by those specialized courts. Unless they give in to things on which they will stand dead so that they will not be reviewed. Or the second way these cases are coming is through international courts, and this option, when two ways of going to court, is abnormal. We think there should be one way: a complaint about a decision by a court of inquiry, the Supreme Court is reviewing this complaint. And it's an exotic position about how to take away the judges of the Constitutional Court. You know, there's this anecdote: "They're asking, and tell me, choose a more faithful animal, which starts with a sa, and ends with a bacca." That's a dog's choice. So I want to say that this "so" and "bacca" are programmed when it comes to writing volumes of works. Unless they're writers, they're judges, there's so much selection that they can't go through, so they're programmed to "sow off" two dozen judges who support today's power. In no case can this cynical law be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, who hasn't left the faction? Just a minute. Karmazin, one minute, please, and then the Chief of the Supreme Court will have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u213	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! This bill is actually a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. In particular, he takes the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I stress, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine who she chose as judges. Moreover, it allows a body today other than the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review decisions made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The honourable national deputies and even the Constitutional Court did not think of what they were thinking. So it turns out that it's more important for the Supreme Judge to have a degree in science, to have a degree in science, to have extensive publications of scientific and practical content than to be a qualified judge. Come on! How can such a chapter be adopted in the first reading?Oh, my God! If he is removed and the author agrees, then the law can be passed with another strain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u214	Thank you. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u215	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! I met with the President yesterday, and we had a long talk about judicial reform, about its consequences. I informed him about both the positive and the negative effects of judicial reform. We also discussed today’s bill, which is being considered in Parliament today. The only thing I regret is that you have not listened to the position of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the leading national and international experts, who have pointed to the unwarranted and unconstitutional nature of the individual provisions of judicial reform. In particular, including part of the status of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. But perhaps this is our Ukrainian tradition: First something needs to be ruined and then it needs to be corrected. I must point out that those powers that return to the Supreme Court of Ukraine by this bill are a benefit. Otherwise, all citizens and legal persons will go to Strasbourg. And whoever wills, and who will get it. So to shorten time, that's good, but really what the Supreme Court is supposed to reduce to 20 judges, we were 95 judges, we became 47 today. Let's do 20. And look at it passionately. Someone who's sick in a civilian's room is postponing cases, civil cases, cases. Or in any room. And who does the law determine the number of judges in general? It's not defined. So I think on the second reading, Dmitri Mikitovich, we talked, we need to fix this situation. Because this is a position that really contradicts the Constitution. And then the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u216	Please give us a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u217	Then the Supreme Court will indeed be the highest judicial institution, the filter where decisions will be made definitively and within the limits required for all of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, the subject has been discussed. Of the factions that did not participate in the discussion, no one insists? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, there have been various proposals here, including when putting on a vote to remove certain points. Let's do it this way. Let us consider the proposal of a committee on acceptance as a basis. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports, when preparing for the second reading, we need to take carefully into account, there are a number of points that apply to, in fact, the powers of the Supreme Council, also to the formation of the Supreme Court, that it should be unique to people who have a scientific degree, a scientific title and who have very many publications. What is "very much" is not clear. It's not a scientific institution, obviously. We need to perhaps extend the possibility here, including the formation of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And a number of other points that we obviously need on the committee that we need to discuss and make appropriate decisions on. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the work of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7447]] [[14:00:26]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Law amending certain legislative acts on the regulation of the relationship in the field of television and telecommunications. [[Registration number 6527]] Here the author and the committee are asked to address this issue by a reduced procedure. Please vote on this proposal. [[2:01:02]] For 201 Decision taken. The rapporteur and co-rapporteur is the head of the Committee's Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Landik Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u219	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Your point is to propose a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to regulate the relationship in the field of television and telecommunications. The changes made by the project will allow broadcasters licensed by the National Council for air or satellite language in areas that coincide with the territory of the telecommunications operator to be present on the list of programmes offered by the telecommunications operator to its subscribers. According to the changes noted, a television provider will be obliged to provide its subscribers with access to television programs that carry out live or satellite speech on the territory of the television network on the basis of Ukrainian National Council licences for television and radio broadcasting at the most affordable frequency at the most affordable cost for television viewers. So-called universal software service. In addition, the bill provides for responsibility for failure to meet the above requirements. The adoption of this law will allow for the organic cooperation of telecommunications and television broadcasters, promote the right to information of residents of the region, explore national manufacturers and organizations, effectively operate an open and fair competitive market and enter Ukraine into the world's information space. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information suggests that it be accepted as a basis, since we believe that this will allow for the protection of the national television producer. This bill is supported by national channels, including, or perhaps primarily, regional channels. The universal service package will also include state channels, and a social television channel, when it appears in Ukraine. In passing this bill, I'm trying to draw the attention of the legislators to the problems faced by producers of the product, the national product, especially the so-called niche teleorganizations and the regional ones that produce their product for a particular audience, and then they can't put it on cable networks. In civilized countries, this program is solved through universal software services, including social channels. The adoption of this bill will also stimulate digital television as national producers are interested in technology and digitalization. I propose to accept this bill and to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u220	Thank you, sit down, please. Is there a need to discuss? You don't? I then vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill No.6527, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on the regulation of the relationship in the field of television and telecommunications]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u221	Well, it's too late. [[14:05:02]] For 262 Thank you, copy. Registration number 5298, draft Act on the Strengthening of Responsibility for the Respect of the Social and Labour Guarantees of the Population, the Provision of Conditions of Pay. The author of the bill is Janko Anton Volodymyrovich. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[14:05:40]] For-189 Supported. Please. Anton Volodymyrovich. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u222	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues! It is not a secret that we have a serious problem in the economy today: not paying wages to employees of enterprises of any kind of property. However, often wages can be paid in a few days, several weeks, even months. That is, the employer actually uses the employee's money without paying him his salary and then pays him the same amount as he should. I propose to amend the Labour Code and to supplement the new article which provides for penalties for the non-timely payment of wages in the amount of double the National Bank's account rate for each day of delay. It also proposes to strengthen administrative responsibility, i.e. from three to ten unnecessary minimums, to raise to five and fifteen, also to increase the liability provided for in the Criminal Code. I'm going to make sure that there's only one law, that there's a committee that's profile, technical, so to speak, that there's a mistake in article 172, and we're not bringing change into article 172, and there's no change in 57. But let's let the hall decide how, you can work on the second reading, you can go to work. Well, there have also been changes to the Wages Act similar to those on collective agreements and agreements on State statistics and on buchuchet. That is, to date, the adoption of this law, on the one hand, will significantly reduce the non-payment of wages, the late payment, and, on the other hand, if such a phenomenon as a late payment occurs, the employee, i.e. the ordinary citizen, will receive additional money for not paying him. So we're increasing, well, the social status of the working man. I beg your pardon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u223	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Suhi, Committee on Social Policy and Work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u224	Dear colleagues! The first trailer is my own and I think most of the session hall. The idea is clear to all of us, the idea can be accepted by society. With such shameful phenomena as pay debt, like the low cost of national labour, it's time for us to start a decisive fight long ago, because it can't go on like this. We're losing purchasing power, we're losing mass demand. But my colleague and I were on the committee, with our colleague Jacenk, and now we're talking. This bill should not be rejected; it should be sent for further processing. Listen carefully, about the responsibility of retaining social security, it's Russianism. It may be the responsibility of violating social and labour security of the population, and then some sanctions will occur. How can you be punished? Of course, if it were possible to read the second reading, then it would be contrary to our Rules. There are things we can't do, because this is going to be a completely different bill. A few brief remarks. Regarding the amendment to article 103 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. So we already have 97 articles, which are supposed to be that the owner or the authorized authority, or a natural person has no right to make unilateral decisions for work that violates conditions. And I'm going to the agrarians on the proposal to cancel the total salary payment in natural form. Remember that time when our village was being paid for with sugar, when they're paying and paying now when they're paying for the pies with food. We do. ‘ Ukraine ratified Convention No. 95 of the International Labour Organization, which provides for permission and not only in Ukraine, and in Poland such a thing, both in the Czech Republic and in Germany, 30 per cent in those specific conditions of agricultural production may be on a natural basis. That's why I'm making a proposal, especially because the ministries that sent the response are denying it. Correct this law for further processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u225	Yeah, we'll talk about it? Let's do it. Please sign up. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u226	Indeed, this bill is very, very important, and we remember these terrible years when they were six months in arrears with salaries. I'm not talking about retirement anymore, I'm talking about social benefits, which are still delayed today. But I just want to point out once again that, dear fellows, we have to remove this rule, which, in the case at hand, sounds something like that, you can make things worse or you can't pay the employee's salary if that's what you're agreeing with. We understand very well that the employee is in on it. On the scale of unemployment that we have today, in order to save our jobs and that kind of thing, can sign anything. Because of this, obviously, this rule needs to be removed, and no consent should be given. If we're going to really improve the situation and I'm going to totally support Dry One here, we need to make it very clear that the salary has to be paid on time under any conditions and all that. It's going to be the guarantees of a working man, and I think you could accept it really in the first reading right now, but in the second reading, make these amendments that we talked about. And about the name. I think so. Mr. Suhi, I'm addressing you. I don't think that these are the amendments that can be made during the second reading, they don't conflict with our absolutely rules, it doesn't change the depth and fundamental principles of this bill. This changes only some nuances that improve the pay situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u227	Yes, please, Gordien Sergey. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u228	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Absolute logic is in this bill, and so are we. Of course it is necessary to vote for it in the first reading. If they're even sent to work, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, wherever it's read, will support it, because we have to fight that disgraceful phenomenon, when we vote for the bill today, if housing and utility debt, people get a penny. And we have massively in Ukraine that man is working, that he is not paid on time, and no one is responsible. There are mass phenomena, and this is in particular the State-owned production company Znamya Poltava, people have been counting for a long time, and they have not been counted with wages to date. It's a payday. Let's take the workers of the brick factory from the village of the Great Transport of the Shishai district, have a big scandal about beating out the wages that these workers have earned, and they don't pay. Therefore, Ukrainian legislation must be the standards proposed by the author of the bill and the faction of the Ukrainian Company will have to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u229	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u230	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been thoroughly familiar with both the bill and the observations made by the central authorities. And I can't tell you that I completely agree with the thought of a colleague of the Dry One who said that this bill should be sent for work. There's a lot of motive back there. For example, it is suggested that article 172 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code should be amended, that the maximum penalty of two years is proposed to be recorded for three years, i.e. against the general part of the Code. The general conclusion, for example, is that the bill requires substantial work. About the same, the same thought came to the same conclusion in a number of ministries, for example, the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance directly writes: the bill is not supported. Another Ukrainian Ministry of Economics or Social Policy does not support the bill. I cannot agree with the changes in article 103 of the Code of Law on the Work of Ukraine. It's about article 29 of the Ukrainian Pay for Work Act. A new part that provides for prior agreement with the employee and electoral authority on cases of deterioration in the working conditions. I understand it's going to be forcing people. Because of this, there are very rational seeds in this bill, but so far they are technically presented in such a way that it is impossible to accept. That's why I think this bill should be sent to the author. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u231	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, I would like to support the offer of my colleague Dryhog, who from the very beginning said that we are all responsible for strengthening the responsibility for timely payment of wages. Because it's the norm that should protect a person's work. I want to remind you that our committee has had a lot of work to do in the last few years so that the salary becomes the first pay. Because he was somewhere in the fifth, in the sixth place. We've worked it out. Pay the man for his work and then pay all the taxes. I also want to say that we have increased criminal responsibility for delaying wages. But there is a delay today. And the intention of Jacek to make a stronger responsibility is in keeping with reality. But I can't help but agree with a well-known lawyer, really, the reason I told Yuri Carmazin that he said that there was a lot of standard-setting technology that was broken here: from name to name, from change to other articles. So what we want is for us to do something so publicly right now, and then to get it back, let's say, from the President's veto, whether we want this law to work. So there are two choices. Or put it on the line now, and it'll be gone. And we say very softly: work hard. We invite the author to finalize this bill. It won't take long. Let him give us to the committee with our comments, the scientific expertise, colleagues, and we'll take him quickly, and this law will work. Because, indeed, it is necessary to protect a person’s work because, in fact, debts have remained on the payroll since the old authorities. Sadly, our authorities have not done anything to eliminate the debts they have. Therefore, it is necessary to force the employer, at the legislative level, to pay off debts on wages, for this is the basis of a person’s life as a worker. Once again, I support the offer of a colleague of the Dried, to send for work, and more so the decision of our committee to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u233	The discussion is over, and I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 5298 on strengthening responsibility for the welfare and employment guarantees of the population, ensuring conditions of pay. Please vote. [[14:18:25]] For-164 The committee proposes that the subject be reinstated from the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. [[14:18:50]] For 274 It's going to work. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Burjozkin Stanislav Semenović, into the House of Dept. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening social guarantees for young people, disabled persons and other vulnerable groups is under consideration. Registration number 5299. The author of the bill, Yacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please identify yourself. [[14:19:53]] For-182 Offer supported. Please, Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. Get ready for Schmel's, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, the presiding officer, the essence of the bill is to somehow overcome unemployment among young people. So what do we have today? Here is a young person who completes a PTU or an institution, or another educational institution, even a school, and cannot find a job. Because it only takes experience, and there can't be experience, because, so to speak, there isn't. Next. The crisis has led many professionals to the streets and, of course, young people are not very competitive in the labour market today. This results in both crime and increased budget costs, because unemployment benefits are paid and so on. That is, we all understand that in general the potential of the nation must develop rather than sleep somewhere, not work, tuna and so on. Therefore, it is proposed that legislation should regulate what is provided depending on the number of working citizens, regulations, such as the admission of young people to work. Again, in 20 years of independence, many different documents have been adopted, but unfortunately most are declarative. It is therefore proposed to amend the Labour Code, the Vacation Act, the Youth Promotion and Development Act in Ukraine, the Employment Act. In my view, the adoption of this law does not provide for budgetary costs and facilitates the employment of young people. By the way, I would like to point out that the demographic situation in Ukraine is very negative today, largely because of the lack of work in Ukraine. I mean, people don't start families without jobs, and they don't have children, and so on and so forth. So I ask him to support, regardless of political, so to speak, the view is a normal social law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u235	Please, head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u236	The honourable chairman, the honourable ones, who supported the author’s proposal on the need to strengthen the social guarantees of the labour rights of citizens, drew the Committee’s attention to the following. Making changes to the part of the introduction of a separate employment standard for young people in the first place is not appropriate, since this is a matter regulated by the Employment Act of Ukraine, the mandatory public social insurance for unemployed persons and the provision of young people who have received higher or vocational and technical education in the first place with the grant of a employer. In addition, the proposed bill, by modifying the approach to social security by establishing a separate employment standard for young people, does not define the mechanism for its implementation, such as the number of jobs to be counted, the monitoring of employment standards. Part of this bill is already reflected in the draft Ukrainian Labour Code adopted in the first reading. [[1108]] As part of Ukraine's introduction to the CPT, it reduces the length of work from 6 months to 4 months to use the employee's right to a full-time annual leave in the first year of work. The Committee draws attention to the fact that for certain categories of workers listed, such as disabled persons, persons under 18 years of age, women before or after pregnancy and childbirth, and women with children under 15 years of age, or children with disabilities. Part seven of article 10 of the Ukrainian Vacation Act already provides for annual vacations of complete duration up to six months of continuous work in the first year of business, according to their wishes. In addition, article 38 of the Ukrainian Vocational and Technical Education Act stipulates that graduates of vocational and technical institutions of the daily form of education, which were trained for 10 months or more, are given annual paid leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u237	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u238	For further work, the Committee proposes to support, recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Bill 5299 of the People’s Deputies of Yatzenka, the return of the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u239	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? There is a proposal to support Bill No. 5299 – Draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening social guarantees for young people, disabled people and other vulnerable groups. Vote. [[14:25:35]] For-95 Not supported. There is a proposal for the committee to correct and the same conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is to direct the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Please vote. [[14:26:05]] For 1052 Not supported. Overruled. Honorable fellow workers, in order to be sent back to the first place, need to be indicated that work is needed. And the committee's proposal is more correct to send the author to work on it. It's not supported, so it's not supported, unfortunately. A draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance for Lowly Families is under consideration. [[information]] [[Registration number 6244]] Short cut? Please vote. [[14:26:58]] For 209 Please, Volnik Mikhail Yakovitch. Get ready for Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, distinguished TV setters, radio listeners! At times, such situations may arise when a family needs State help, while at the same time it is revealed that documents are not properly formed. More often is the fault of someone who needs this help, for the official never admits that he has failed to provide an explanation or a change in the legislative framework, and once again the person does not know which documents must be submitted. But a valid law, article 7, provides that if a violation is detected and the documents are misdocumented, it is only six months before payment can be made to the citizen who needs it or to the family or to the disabled or so. At the same time, government authorities are convinced that this aid is needed after the test has been carried out. Therefore, I propose to amend article 7 of this law and to foresee that the following period of state aid may be set from the month following the month in which the breach occurs. I mean. Infringement, but it has also been established that help is needed, that it must be paid. And that's why the bill is not supposed to wait six months. But at the same time, the author predicts that a family that has violated existing legislation can voluntarily pay the amount that it has received illegally, or this can be done in court, but counting may take place no more than 20 percent per month. That is, given that the bill touches children with disabilities, families with disabilities, multi-child families, in those families where one or more people are sick for a long time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u241	Please, from the Committee of Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, I will try to explain simply so that our television audiences will understand. Today, in Ukraine on January 1, 2011, 70,000 230 families receive such social assistance. And this aid consists of 882 bracelets per month per family. Indeed, to receive this help, we need to provide a series of help. There was a bad error. People didn't understand anything, they didn't provide help in time. But there are other things. The information provided is particularly superior to that of the family. Or they reduce the family’s total income. And these people have received a considerable amount of material help. Or they could not receive material help at all. Today, the rule of law, as stated by a colleague of Volinec, is in force. What if those authorities that provide for appointment and control show such a mistake? Whether it was the guilt of the family who deliberately made it, or whether it was the guilt of the state welfare agencies that examined this help, he was deprived of such assistance for a period of six months. Without such help, of course, the family will be in a difficult situation without any other income. Colleagues Volinec in principle offers a good mechanism. He suggests that if such a reason is found, it is not six months before we start paying, but from the following month. I mean, there's a mistake, there's a mistake, there's a mistake, there's a mistake, there's a mistake, there's a mistake, there's a mistake, there's a mistake, there's a mistake, there's a mistake, there's a mistake, there's a mistake, there's a mistake, But there is a questionable figure here, Comrade Wolinec. You say that you need your family to pay 20 percent of what you get. If they really falsified documents, got large amounts, or got all year long normal amounts, found out, then what? Return 20 percent to the state?Oh, my God! If they're monthly, yes, I support them. It's a debt that's accumulated every month. So in principle, so that it's somehow fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u243	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u244	In order to make it fair for this family not to really find itself in a difficult position because of officials or because of its misunderstandings, I think it would be a good idea if we supported the project as a basis. Moreover, our committee recommends supporting the Volinz project as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u245	Thank you. Is that clear? I am voting on the proposal for support in the first reading of the draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance for Lowly Families, please be determined. [[information]] [[Registration number 6244]] [[14:32:32]] For 113 Not supported. Wait. For work, perhaps? I am voting on the proposal to send a bill to redesign the subject. () [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, there's no motive. There's no motive in the regulation. [[14:33:05]] For the 110.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u246	No matter what you discuss, the decision has been taken, the bill has been rejected. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Bill rejected. A draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications is under consideration, here are two of us and two of us. [[new editor]] [[3460]] [[3461-1]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u247	Short cut? I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:33:53]] For 202 Honorary colleagues, the author of the first bill of colleague Shevchuk, sent a letter of appeal to the bill. [[3460]] I'm asking you to vote off the bill number 3460. The author asks him to call it off. Please vote in favour. [[14:34:28]] For-22. Yes, they didn't. Although in vain, if the author does not want to look at it, I think we need to support the author. Okay. Is there a Shevchuk? None. Then Moroko. And then two from the committee. And he's both from the committee and the second bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u248	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Transport and Communications Committee has considered a bill amending the Telecommunications Act. The Committee on Transport and Communications considers that these bills cannot be adopted as a basis for the present text for the following reasons. [[registration number 3460 and alternative 3460-1]] First, during the preparation of the draft for first reading, the Supreme Council had adopted a number of laws that had already resolved most of the problems raised in those bills. There has been a situation where Bills 3460 and 3460-1 have in many cases proposed amendments to existing laws. In addition, after the return to the 1996 Constitution, both bills conflicted with the Basic Law and the Cabinet of Ministers Act. There are a number of general comments to the text of the bill from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Science and Experts. In the light of the above, the Committee on Transport and Communications considers that these bills require major refinements. Please support the opinion of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u249	Who wants to share in the discussion? None. Yes, please. Besides Carmazin, don't others insist? Then we won't make a record. Please, Yuri Anatolyevich, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u250	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow MPs! I don't get the bad taste in a previous vote. You and I saved time, and we thought it was clear to everyone that our colleague Wolinz's bill with you was to be supported. What did we do? We have left behind a standard that is worse than criminal responsibility for low - income families, which takes them six months to help them. What did we do? I'm talking to my colleague Chechtov. Think about it. We've punished people worse than the Criminal Code. It's the turn of the bill, and now it's been rejected by your hand. With your hand, this bill, which is currently under consideration, must be rejected, and the previous bill must be returned. I am addressing you, Adam Ivanovich, you did not allow the factions to discuss what had happened. You can't do that. We can't because we have to think about what's going on in the state today when the store is full, the big store only orders 20 cans of cephire. Is that okay? Because people can't buy any more. And now we're depriving those miserable people again for six months who've made a mistake. That's why I'd like to, I'm basically talking to the screamers from the Party of Regions. You're thinking about people. And as far as telecommunications is concerned. It was perfectly right for a colleague of Shevchuk to propose when he withdrew his bill. And it was very right to vote in favour, but you didn't vote because you have a constant feeling because you have a reflex of the dog Paulov, you have a pen or a pen, and you vote like that. So I'm asking you, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, This Law on Amendments before.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u251	Yuri Anatoliyovich, the chairman of the hall joined in that I did not interrupt you, even though you spoke of quite another just but wrongly. Yes, please put to the vote a bill number 3460 amending the Law on Telecommunications. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:39:09]] For 1 Not supported. I'm voting on Bill 3460-1 amending the Law on Telecommunications. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:39:34]] For one. For, including Karmazin "against". Not supported. Bills are rejected. And the last bill today is 2268 -- the draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications in Ukraine. [[on the prevention of illegal use of ultimate telecommunications equipment]] [[Registration number 2268]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:40:13]] For 184 Offer supported. Please, Hennady Hennadiovich Moskal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u252	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! It's for those who don't hear. First. It is a law just as it does not have to work for the Supreme Council, Adam Ivanovich. In 2007, I handed it over when only 235,000 mobile phones were stolen in Ukraine, and the discovery was 3 percent. So far, the media has not made any noise, and I am grateful for this, and today 1 million mobile phones have been stolen in Ukraine in 2010, and the disclosure is 2.8. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, they don't steal from national deputies because they wear them on a chain or their own cars. They steal from ordinary people who still can't pay off their loans. Stealing. Grabbing. Robbery attacks. Or cruel killings, because social inequality, and not everyone can have a mobile phone, and some simply take it and steal it from what it can. Thus, we cannot adopt a law that would oblige mobile operators to turn off stolen mobile phones and actually become scrap metal, not to be reused, sold, reselled, and so forth. It's a very simple decision that all countries of the European community have but us. Because we have, you see, operators don't want and they don't want a committee, they don't want anyone else, and so on. Well, since 2007, the bill has not been able to be on the committee and only after the noise of the media: what to do with mobile phones when a simple decision has been found, telecommunications operators are obliged to install their own funds at St.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u253	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u254	Excuse me, technical equipment and turn off stolen cell phones. So this disgraceful phenomenon in Ukraine, well, a million mobile phones a year, people think about it, from a position of opposition or from a position of opposition, these are our voters that are being robbed with you. While we're talking, I think the cell phones have already been stolen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u255	Yes, thank you. The committee's sore, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u256	Respectable People's Deputies, the Transport Committee, have considered Bill 2268. This is precisely the case where the aim is noble and the proposed methods are unfortunately illegal. In the view of all those who participated in the discussion and the expert evaluation, the bill required substantial elaboration. The Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the National Communications Management Commission, the Law Enforcement Committee, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, are all unanimous that the bill cannot be adopted as a basis for first reading. This is due to the fact that the main innovation of the project, the main innovation and the only innovation of which the project consists is contrary to the Constitution of articles 22, 31, 64, the requirements of criminal procedural law and the Act on the Quick Search. Therefore, the opinion of the Committee and all the participants in the discussion was unanimous: to return the draft to the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u257	Who wants to share in the discussion? Besides Carmazin, does anyone insist? Sign up. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u258	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I was very pleased with that observation by Hennady Moskal, which had not been considered for so long. Mr. Moscal, in order to tell you that a million people have been stolen, that is, in fact, every Ukrainian has almost a phone, someone has been stolen, and someone has been stolen. But the one who stole it can also be stolen. Well, joke about it, but I think we should really vote for this bill. I'm one of those people who's been stolen and stolen. Not because I'm not wearing it on a chain, as Mr. Moskal says, but because I just stole two or three phones. Indeed, I would be pleased if those phones were turned off once and for all, no matter how much I took revenge on that thief. Because of this, Mr. Moskal, you have shown courage, it is the General's courage to introduce this bill. And we'll support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u259	To avoid stealing, wear cheap models. Dry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u260	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any politics or double standards here. The honourable author of the bill is a thousand percent right. The idea of his bill needs to be supported. Because the idea of his bill today is supported by the entire Ukrainian society. You know, we probably have the only state in the world that has a paradoxical situation: when a person calls from a mobile phone, it's not clear who they are. All over the world, the mobile phone has to be registered. And the law enforcement authorities are trained to know where that call came from. Take a look, especially now, at this despicable, pseudo-terrorist thing. That is certainly why the author of the bill is right. And I'm making an offer, Gennady, please, consider and understand the position correctly. This bill will certainly be accepted by the session hall. Yes, it is. But only after further processing. You have no emotion as a lawyer, please read these warnings regarding the restriction of consumer rights. Not everything from him. And to deprive him of his right to everlasting use of the ultimate result of telecommunications is not right or normal. So, dear colleagues, please support my offer. Let us send this bill for further work, a well - known lawyer and qualified lawyer, Gennady Moskal, to finalize this bill, and we must accept it. The fact is, this bill will no doubt contribute to reducing the criminalization of society. This bill will help reduce crime in society. Because it is very common to take a person’s health — or sometimes even life — along with a mobile phone. That is why we should certainly support this bill after it has been finalized in accordance with the requirements and standards of technology and the requirements of Ukrainian legislation, which are now in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u261	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, do not underestimate the ability of the security services, registered or unregistered. Right, they know where and who's on the phone, so. Don't worry about them. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u262	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I read carefully the observation of a major objection made by the Scientific and Experimental Authority, such. Since the physical or legal person’s ability to use telecommunications may result in great harm to such a person, it may lead to complete insolence. The grounds, order and maximum possible time limits for the application of measures that provide for such a limitation of rights should be fully regulated by law. This is a quote because it does not fit into common sense. Because of these crimes, the honorable Hennaday Hennadiovich, I thank you for proposing this very simple law, which is applied practically throughout the world, and very easily used and implemented. And these crimes are going to open up a hundred percent because you know there's an extra identification mark in each phone, and they have to be 100 percent exposed. Sadly, though, six people today are being pulled out of the police force to stop the person because that is not the language that makes him talk to the DAI employees. But there is no time to expose a crime. Because of this, a very simple proposal is introduced by Gennady Moskal. To suspend the provision of these telecommunications services by decision of the knowledge authority, the investigator, the prosecutor, and one of the heads of the body that carries out the search and search activities. Then everyone will know that he's lost the point of stealing these cell phones. That is why I ask you, to vote, this is not a political bill, to support this bill in the first reading. You can write other guarantees that will protect, including those of criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u263	You see, Yuri Anatolyovich, you need to be brought back to law enforcement to order there. Dear colleagues, several times called Moskal, I couldn't even count how many, but quite a lot, he's entitled to a replica. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, there's nothing to work on, to accept as a basis, and in the second reading, to correct that, maybe I'm not a telecommunications expert, but we're paying money and we have the right to demand that we steal a mobile phone so that it doesn't turn out to be a thief. Let us save the lives, health, and material values of millions of our citizens. There's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, the politicians, there's our voters here with you and we're looking at the whole normal thing, we're lobbying for the relationship operators' interests today. They're very profitable companies today, and they can buy this equipment. So I ask you to accept it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-15-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, let us think logically. The point is, really, the card is blocked, but that's not enough. Because he replaced the card and used the machine. There's a technical possibility of shutting down the machine so it doesn't work. Of course, that's what we've done to help, especially young people who walk the streets, clean them up, abuse them, and so on and so forth, so on. So in the first reading, let's support all of those legal comments, and the technical ones that are, let's take into account in the second reading, because that's what we would do very well with you at the end of today's sessional day. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications in the first reading. [[on the prevention of illegal use of ultimate telecommunications equipment]] [[Registration number 2268]] Please vote. Vote. [[14:52:55]] For 116 Too bad we put the interests of those who trade in mobile phones above the interests of the people. The factions, please. He doesn't steal, he just trades them. The Regional Party is 8, "BUT" is the "Fatherland", which actively supported 39 of all, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 17, the Communists are 25, the People's Party is 15, the non-fractional is 12. Yes, there was a proposal from the Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to direct the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. [[14:53:53]] For-123 The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, you and I have fully fulfilled the agenda for today, taking some of the truth away from the morning session. Therefore, I declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council closed. We work on committees, we prepare for parliamentary hearings, as the Head of the Supreme Council said. I'll start tomorrow at 10 o'clock. The day of opposition, most of the questions being raised. But the first question we're going to consider is the 140th anniversary draft of the Order, the 140th anniversary of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine, and then the questions that are defined in the agenda for the week. And there'll be parliamentary hearings tomorrow at 3 p.m. According to parliamentary hearings, Ivan Grigorovich, yesterday on the Conciliation Council, clearly defined. The MPs are just one of the factions and no more, no more.
