ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:31]] Cards were registered in the 363 people’s deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 6 to 9 September 2011. Four plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place. Sixty-seven issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 16 laws and 14 regulations were passed, 14 bills were adopted on the basis of which 1 bill was returned to the committee for further consideration and 7 bills and 12 draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law was passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 3 laws were rejected, 81 parliamentary requests were made. Dear colleagues, I give you an announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and according to the signatures of the 12 National Deputies, I report the creation of an interfractional road safety association in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of the interfractional road safety association, Viktor Dmitrovicz Sweden, was elected as the national deputy of Ukraine. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, honourable national MPs speak on Tuesday with authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with statements, announcements, and proposals. Please record. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. The next is Reva, the faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u2	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! I cannot help but raise the pressing questions about the lives of our citizens in rural areas. We will never truly become a European state if there is a huge difference between the standard of living of the city and the village, practically a gap. The most painful thing today is the roads. I had just returned from the area, and there was no area in Volina from which there would be no representatives asking the government to repair at least the roads. The only way out of the road is to go to the villages, and the villages cannot be reached. People are sick in the villages, and there is no need for immediate help. So now, when we adopt the budget, we have to take into account the question not only of the roads to the Euro but also of the rural roads. Rural medicine. It is difficult to talk about the guarantee of free medical care if in rural areas about 90 percent of the funds allocated for medicine are paid for work. Almost nothing is left to cure. And what about people who do not have money today? I am a fourth - time minister of health today. They are so often replaced that none of them have been able to comply with my parliamentary request and to appeal to citizens from the Lokachin district of Volin. There's a district hospital. There's a lot of trouble in it. But the biggest disaster is the X-ray machine. He's as old as our current minister. The minister came from the region with experience today. Obviously, he's able to feel the pain of those people who are looking for Volina today, where to check for tuberculosis or fractures, and he's going to solve the issue of providing X-rays at Locachin County Hospital. And the main thing. Today I cannot help but raise the issue of the earth. She's like a plate. Whatever you put there, you get as much. And today the attention of the landowners, the Ukrainian agrarians, cannot be focused solely on the land market or on the product market. The future of fertility. Few sunflowers have eaten it, and today there are cultures that cannot be understood. I was approached by people from the village of Podbrzez in Horochovtskie at the reception and told that on their black lands she rented a firm and sowed a so - called energy line. Dear colleagues! You remember how afraid we were to set aside a few acres of peat to work in a peat factory, and today the peats are growing in different packs and the vines are planted on black soils. That's why I'm going to the Ministry. Give me the answer that this culture is an energy line from which palettes will be made and weighed abroad. And there's a big boss from Kiev lobbying that firm. Salisque Energy. And the last. I want the government's attention on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u4	Many lands that are not needed on rations are not budgeted for today. And I'm asking the government to take a decision that allows about a million hectares of land to pay for the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u5	Thank you. Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The dynamic pace at which the entire civilized world is living today requires similar turnover from Ukraine. That is why the work of the President of our State is so tense. The Authority, by setting out the objective of foreign policy to protect our national interests, is engaged in a pragmatic dialogue with all strategic partners in Ukraine. The main indicator of effectiveness was the increase in trade between Ukraine and our strategic partner, the Russian Federation, from $15 billion in 2009 to the projected 50 billion this year. The growth rate of about 350 percent speak for themselves and, you know, is impressive. With regard to the difficult negotiations on the gas issue, we are confident that the artificial difficulties that we have inherited will be resolved through the dialogue of the authorities and the mutual interest of the two brotherly peoples, Russia and Ukraine, through a compromise solution. Our relationship with the United States of America is steadily and consistently evolving. Having given up on the stockpiles of highly enriched uranium, we have made a significant contribution by our country to strengthening international security, and in a recent letter addressed to the head of the Ukrainian State, President Barack Obama of the United States. There is no doubt that Ukraine's European integration remains a priority for the current authorities. Last week, I returned from a work trip from Strasbourg, during which a large number of meetings were held with colleagues from the European Parliament. I would like to stress that almost all the MEPs with whom we have spoken are convinced that the EU-Ukraine relationship has never been as deep and intense as it is now. We are concluding negotiations with the European Union on an Association Agreement, an integral part of which will be the Free Trade Zone Agreement. Thus, we hope that the summit “Ukraine – the EU”, which will take place in Kiev in December, will be the most effective in the history of our relations. Ukraine has successfully implemented another critical European Union action plan. I would like to take this opportunity to call on the people's deputies to vote in favour of the draft laws drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers necessary for the implementation of the first phase of the plan of action. With regard to the situation within the country. In addition to the sustained growth rate of the economy, it is important to note that the Government has clearly submitted to the Supreme Council a draft budget of 2012. We understand that the proposed draft today is an option for the Cabinet of Ministers, and we all need a state budget. In this regard, without regard to the views of our colleagues, the representatives of the rural councils, the regional, urban and regional parliaments and the President will not approve of it. The faction has asked the leaders of all the regional governments and most of the city's measures to submit their comments to this vital document. Moreover, the President's clear voice on this issue on the Council of the Regions must be restored to the impact on the equalization of macroeconomic proportions of regional development, the real financial push for the regions and the creation of incentives for further growth. We understand that the opposition will not give up politics in Parliament, but the opposition policy that goes against the interests of the State on the path to European integration, the general criticism of the budget without concrete, and the main real sources of budgetary revenue, will not benefit either politicians or the State or our constituents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u7	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u8	Honorary colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, on behalf of our constituents, on behalf of millions of pensioners, veterans, disabled people, on behalf of all those who need social assistance and increased care by the state, the Communist faction is proposing that the government bill 9127 – "Proguarities of the State for the enforcement of the decisions of the court" – be removed immediately from consideration as essentially narrowing the rights of the people, is contrary to the Constitution and other laws of Ukraine. Under pressure from the International Monetary Fund through the Supreme Council, this bill, the government, in fact, has been declared unable to ensure the fulfilment of the State’s social obligations and the promises made to the people in the elections. What are we talking about? First of all, the title of the bill does not correspond to its contents, because it does not mean protecting people from the will of officials. This law establishes a subtle mechanism for the abolition of legally established social benefits, including housing and utilities discounts, the size of money and pensions for many categories of our citizens, medical workers and cultural workers, miners, victims of the Chernobyl accident, war veterans and workers, children of war, victims of Nazi persecution, members of the militia, prosecutors, public fire department and others. Instead of a specific fixed benefit defined by valid laws, the government is trying to get the right to determine the level of the benefits on its own and to act on the principle of "I want the ladies, I don't want to." What does that mean in practice? For no one there is a secret, it means canceling the protected budget articles, folding, virtually all social programs. In all, some ten million Ukrainians who really need help can get rid of them. Secondly, it is the process of ending the social conquests of the Soviet era, which was launched in 2000 by the oligarchial and nationalist authorities led by Prime Minister Yushchenk, when many social laws were terminated through the State Budget. In just one year, Yushchenko and his rashes stole 16 billion dollars from Ukrainian veterans. The same was done in the following year, the same was done in 2008 by the government of Timoshenko. Then we succeeded in upholding human rights, and the Constitutional Court ruled that failure by the State to fulfil its social obligations to citizens was unacceptable and illegal. Thirdly, Bill 9127 saw the world before the 2012 State Budget review and immediately after the adoption of another pension law at the request of the IMF. And it's not random. You see, your fellow Members, that these same requirements and the same trends are taking place in Greece, Portugal, Spain, the very reduction of social support for unprotected populations and full control of Ukraine's state budget by global financial speculators and transnational corporations is the main condition of granting IMF credit. A loan to be redistributed between several powerful Ukrainian financial and political groups. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The company repeatedly claimed the need to stop cooperating with the International Monetary Fund. What is happening to Ukraine now as a recipe reform for so-called foreign benefactors is demeaning the hardworking Ukrainian people, demeaning our dignity, and reaffirming our right once and for all. That is why we urge the government to rid itself of a set of nonprofits that are imposed on the outside and to reject Bill 9127. We urge all indifferents not to remain silent and, along with the Communists, to defend their rights and freedoms, to protect their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u9	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u10	Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! Over a year and a half, the authorities have made many serious mistakes in all areas, putting our country on the brink of a gap and threatening Ukraine’s European future. The leaders of the state seem to have realized that our choice of Europe, in May in this Hall, nearly 300 deputies voted in favour of our decision on the European vector of Ukraine. A year and a half later, after the disgraceful hark accords, the authorities finally came to their senses, because in the Russian direction, they were full of "distorted" and finally realized that they were only playing at one gate -- Ukrainian. But did they think that Europe would be swallowed up by political repression? No, it's not. For the whole civilized world, it's a challenge. The representatives of the European Union and the United States have made this clear. The West shows a willingness to react harshly. If the situation does not change, the ratification of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union will be at great risk. Our nation will be associated, not with Europe, but with Equatorial Africa. So in all the ratings, we're next to Botswana. Finally, the Bank's gone, the West's not joking. The door to a civilized world can close for a long time. That's why they took a break in the Timoshenko trial. The government doesn't know what to do. It was hard for Yuri Lucenka, the first issue of our list, to be taken to the hospital for examination, but only for a twig. What about treatment? Lucenko has been unable to obtain medical care for months, and why do thousands of citizens and thousands of citizens continue to be held unwarranted? When health and even human life are consistently threatened, it's some Middle Ages in the center of Europe, it's just torture. As a realist, I'm not going to appeal to the morals of power. I'm going to turn to their common sense. Ukraine needs Euro-Integration for life, and right now the authorities have to take real steps here. It's not just about the economy. Because Europe is a huge market, it's an investment. The new energy strategy adopted by the European Commission opens up new prospects for addressing our chronic gas problems, and above all, the principles and standards in all areas of life on which the European Union is built. This is Ukraine's only chance for normal development. But today, all of this has come under a huge sign of the question. Therefore, it is imperative that the disgraceful court over Timoshenko, Lucenko, and other opposition politicians be immediately brought to an end. It's obvious that there's no criminal composition on the part of both the ex-premier and ex-minister of internal affairs, no matter what the 'cookie court' says. Amnesty or clemency from the side of power is not appropriate here. This does not apply to innocent people. I therefore urge Parliament to adopt legislation on the decriminalization of individual articles of the Criminal Code. They've already been introduced by our factions. The authorities should not simply release opponents from prison. Its responsibility is to provide them with an opportunity to participate freely in the 2012 parliamentary elections. Remember, today you judge, tomorrow you will be judged. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u11	Andrew Kožemiakin, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Next is Valérie Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u12	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Today comes the 47th day since the leader of our political power, the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko, has been illegally held in prison for no legal reason. For almost three months, the trial is ongoing, during which representatives of the prosecutor’s office and the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev Kyiv Kyrieev work together to find at least some evidence of the alleged charges brought by the Attorney General’s Office in the case against Timoshenko. However, no less acceptable arguments to support the illegality of Yulia Timoshenko's actions as Prime Minister, the prosecution has never been able to state. The testimony of the witnesses, the letters of the acting minister of justice, the letters of even the Henprocuror of Ukraine proved that there was no crime in the actions of Yulia Timoshenko without and any harm to our state. Prime Minister Timoshenko acted in strict compliance with the law, and by her actions she only confirmed her ability to make difficult but vital decisions. The case against Julia Timoshenko collapsed, and the court went into a dead end. That is why the judge was forced to announce a two - week recess. Although there was an unprecedented disregard for any request from the defence party. In the same vein, the authorities admitted that there was no legal basis for the imposition of the indictment against Julia Timoshenko in the gas case. A banking trial is a demonstration of political dissuasion over the leader of the opposition and an attempt to exclude it from the country's political life. The clear and clear position of the leaders of the world community is undeniable. So German federal chancellor Angela Merkel, in a telephone conversation with Yanukovic, made it clear that politicians should compete in elections rather than find out their relationship through the judicial system. A corresponding statement strongly condemning the political persecution of Yulia Timoshenko was made earlier by Russian President Dmitry Medvedev. European People's Party President Wilfred Martens also expressed deep concern over the trial of Yulia Timoshenko, noting that the court is politically motivated and that the conclusion of the negotiations on the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU depends on the situation around Timoshenko. U.S. Secretary Hillary Clinton and EU Foreign Minister Catherine Ashton, in their letter to the President of Ukraine, expressed concern about democracy in Ukraine and the politically motivated trial against Julia Timoshenko and her associates. At a meeting with Yanukovic on September 16 in Yalta Eurocomiser Fuele, Swedish Foreign Minister Karl Bildt proposed two conditions for an agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. The first is the release of Timoshenko from prison, and the second is the provision of conditions for Timoshenko's full participation in the next election. Yet, despite the deep concern, warnings, and protests of national and world society, the authorities continue to violate fundamental human rights and the demands of common sense. Yuri Lucenko and other exposés of the government of Yulia Timoshenko are held in prison, regardless of their lack of legal basis and serious health problems. The Yulia Timoshenko faction, "The Fatherland" in the Supreme Council, demands immediate release from the custody of our leader and other political prisoners, to put an end to political repression. We warn by delivering the indictment against Julia Timoshenko, this authority will render judgment upon itself and execute its people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u13	Valerius Kamchatny, MP of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! The parliamentary group "For the Future" wants to draw attention to one aspect of Ukraine's energy security: the need for a targeted implementation of the state programme, the reduction of Russian gas purchases and the speedy conclusion of contracts with leading global companies for solar gas production. Our country has every chance in a few years to become a powerful exporter of non-traditional gas. And our gas transport system will be able to transport its own gas production in a direction that will benefit Ukraine. In parallel, Ukraine should reduce the volume of Russian gas imports. It is unacceptable and incomprehensible that, to this day, Ukraine is purchasing, say, more gas in Russia than one of the leaders of the European economy is Germany. At the same time, we feel that supplies to Ukraine and to Turkmenistan’s gas should resume. Our countries have high and clear expectations of building a Transcassian gas pipeline that will be able to transport gas to Europe within 4-5 years. Our faction is ready at the legislative level to join the projects mentioned above. A separate cluster of issues to which we draw attention and we are already working seriously today, with a number of relevant bills, is the reform of land relations and the entire agricultural sector, which Parliament should adopt as soon as possible. We insist on closing down the work on the delimitation of state and municipal property, carrying out a regulatory monetary valuation of the land, sorting out the payment process for land-based land-paid owners. In addition, we believe that Parliament must be involved in strict control over the illegal transfer of state property to private structures. A few words about our position on the state budget project submitted to the Supreme Council next year. We recognize as an absolute benefit the focus of the State Budget project on the priority development of the internal market, the promotion of regional development and the rise in social standards, which entails a gradual increase in minimum wage and an increase in wages for budget workers. At the same time, in our view, the State Budget project has a rather high risk of implementing it. This is according to expert estimates, above all, the expected fiscal deficit of 4.7 percent of GDP due to higher planned rates by the Pension Fund and Naftogaz. In view of this, the MP's "For the Future Reform Group" is calling on the Cabinet of Ministers to make a more balanced approach to the preparation of the country's main financial law. To our profound conviction, just taking into account the government's work on all the MP factions, including ours, will enable us to determine all the budgetary parameters optimally and to adopt the budget in a timely manner for the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. With regard to the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, please prepare appropriate addresses, letters, and assignments when needed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the issues set out in the September 20, 2011, schedule. I am announcing for consideration the issue of the elimination of disagreements in the text of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws adopted on 8 September 2011. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out to you that on September 8th, in the process of adopting the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, the date of adoption of the Law on September 8th was not taken into account. With this in mind, according to article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, paragraphs 1 and 2 of chapter II of the Final Order of Ukraine's Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine are proposed to replace the word "September" with the word "November". Is there no objection to putting this motion to the vote? I put to the vote a motion to remove the disagreements in the text of the Ukrainian Act of September 8th on making changes to certain laws of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:31:04]] For 264 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a draft of the Anti-Trafficking Act. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Valery Ananiyovich Bebelz. Please, Valery Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, I would like to go back to an article-by-article consideration of this bill, and I would like to report that there were several differences between the first and the second readings, a series of disagreements that the working group of our committee and the author had to overcome. First of all, the original edition proposed the creation of a special authorized executive body to implement the bill. Next, additional costs were foreseen for the implementation of this law from government and local budgets. Third, a fixed amount of material assistance was offered to those who were affected by human trafficking. And the fourth is a requirement, including the National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, not to interfere with the current 149 articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. All these disagreements are overcome. And I hope that this bill will be supported by you today. In addition, I would like to report that before considering the committee’s second reading, 94 proposals were submitted to the current bill, of which 80 are fully included, 12 are partially taken into account, and only 2 are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u17	Valery Ananiyovich, are we going to the repairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, then we'll go to the repairs. I'm talking about the amendments that are taken into account. If the deputies insist on their confirmation in the session room, please let them know. 1st Amendment. Two-a, three-a, four-a, five-a, six-a, seven-a, eight-a, nine-a, ten-a, accounted for. 11th, accounted for. 12th, 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd, accounted for. The 24th is partially accounted for. 25th, 26th, accounted for. 27th, 28th, accounted for. From 29th to 32nd: readjustments. 33 is counted, just like 34th. 35th, 36th, 37th, 38th, 39th, 40th, 48th, accounted for. 49th, 50th, 51st, 52nd, accounted for. 53rd, 54th, 55th, 56th, 57th, 58th, 60th, accounted for. 61st, accounted for. 62nd, Petaovka is rejected. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 63rd, 64th, 65th, 68th, accounted for. 69th, 72nd, accounted for. 73rd, 76th, accounted for. 77th, 81st, accounted for. 82th -- 92th -- accounted for, just like 93rd -- 94th. All adjustments are included. Please, Valery Ananiyovich, the committee's conclusion is final.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u20	The Committee asks the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the bill as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I must inform you that the Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill should be rejected. The committee disagreed with the case of the Chief Legal Authority, so I'm voting on the second reading proposal and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Anti-Trafficking Act. [[Registration number 8469]] Please vote. [[10:36:28]] For 290 The law is passed. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of a number of bills that are appropriately recommended by the relevant committees. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[registration 9158]] Please vote. [[10:37:15]] For 268. Decision taken. Oleg Light, microphone, please. For what reason?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u22	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. That's the point. I have a question for you on September 6th that the Supreme Council did not include in the agenda of the Parliament of the day my draft Decision banning the Communist Party of Ukraine. I would like to hear an explanation for why Parliament rejected this bill, from you as Head, because it is a criminal organization whose conscience millions of Ukrainian citizens have been killed. They didn't apologize, they continue to practice the criminal ideology of hate. And Parliament, which is called the Ukrainian Parliament, does not include this draft decree. I'd like to hear from you, Head, why it happened. One. And the second. When this matter was considered, why did they not allow themselves to speak on the matter and declare their position as the author of the decree? I believe that the Ukrainian Parliament should put a stop to the existence of a communist criminal ideology so that the crimes of communism on Ukrainian soil will never be repeated.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, my dear fellow! The explanation on my part is this is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If you were to insist on the matter, you would certainly have been given the floor to reason on your position. So I can only recommend that you work with factions and agree to support each other or not. Dear colleagues, your consideration is proposed for the inclusion in the agenda of the Emergency Relief System Bill at 112. [[Registration number 9074]] Please vote. [[10:39:27]] For 247 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Amendment Act in section XX, subsection 2, paragraph 22, of the Ukrainian Tax Code is put to the vote. [[concerning the deferral of a zero rate per natural gas]] [[Registration number 9162]] Please vote. [[10:40:12]] For 284 Decision taken. I call on the Committee on Finance and Banking, the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Committee on Budget Affairs to see these bills again. If there is no objection, we can consider them at the evening meeting. Dear National Deputies! A draft law on the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for 2012 is being announced for consideration. The proposal is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[10:41:05]] For 228 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces, Chief of the Pedchenko Grigory Mikolajovic Armed Forces. The Coroner is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! On behalf of the President of Ukraine, I am presenting a draft law on the number of Ukrainian Armed Forces for 2012. The downsizing of the Armed Forces by 8,000 is the result of a thorough analysis of the state of the Armed Forces, an assessment of the situation and detailed calculations in several ways. The most optimal of these is reflected in the draft concept of reform and development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces until 2917, which, after approval by the government, is before the President of Ukraine. We see a perspective and we can move forward. The draft law is the first step in implementing a strategy to achieve a new design of the Armed Forces, where reductions in numbers will take place at the same time as they increase their ability to respond to current threats. Shortening will be compensated by updating and modernizing military equipment, increasing military training. A gradual transition will be made to a smaller but more effective combat force, which will mainly include military forces of constant combat readiness. We are already taking practical steps. Yes, in 2010-2011 more than three thousand weapons of military technology were restored, including 41 aircraft, 11 helicopters, 12 ships and boats, 2 air-rocket complexes. The flight of aircraft increased by 2.5 times compared to the same period in 2010; the buoyancy of ships at sea by 3.1 times; and the number of parachute jumps by 1.7 times. Nor will we allow the level of social security for military personnel to be reduced. The availability of vacant posts allows for the deployment of virtually all military personnel whose positions will be reduced. The implementation of the law will take place within the framework of the expenditure of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u25	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u26	draft law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u27	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Gritsenko, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I will tell you right now that the National Security and Defence Committee has decided to send this project for work, has not supported the majority of the votes. The vote was political, but the discussion was professional. And all of you, I emphasize, all the deputies are the only representatives of the different factions that can't go on like this. Why? There is no fighting battalion in the army now, there is no fighting squadron in the army now, there are 22,000 vacant positions that no one wants to go to. And that's a reflection of how the army is treated. The officers of the lower and middle chains are not enough. Today, more than a year and a half of the work of the current President -- there is no, I would like to stress, any document signed by the President or the Prime Minister that would determine the prospects and parameters for the development of the army by 5, by 3, at least a year in advance, none. And under these conditions, in May months, decisions are made here, in the hall, about increasing numbers, after a month of Mino Defence, to initiate a reduction in numbers. I'm sorry, the cockroaches are in there. When I read the defense minister's speech, where he tells us that we don't need machines anymore and everything else, every soldier will run ten jobs, the military will spin their fingers around the temple. You can't treat an army like that. I know that the political decision has been made to cut back, and it's against the backdrop of the strengthening of the internal security forces that are now standing here that surrounded all the Afghans who have come with their protest. I want us to know that responsibility has a name. If an irresponsible decision is made to shorten the army against the backdrop of the lack of new technology, virtually zero combat training, moral spirit, there is no social protection of military, or other components of combat.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u29	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u30	Then the responsibility comes with the name: this is the name of the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces Janukovitch Viktor Fedorovich, which is the name of Prime Minister Mikli Janović Azarov, and this is the name of those who vote in favour of shortening the army. [[Under the Constitution, Kabin provides an army of resources]] I propose, on behalf of the committee, that we send a bill to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, please sign up for your position. I think every faction here has to say their point of view on this point. Jarochuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Samuelnek Yuri Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u33	Vamilaenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, we really are. Opinions were divided at the Committee's meeting. But she fully agrees with what Anatoli Stepanović said, that the overall programme for the development of the Armed Forces should be out of the military doctrine's national security strategy today. But these documents have already been reviewed, they are on the National Security Council. I would not like to agree with what Anatoli Stepanović said, 22,000 vacancies. Do we need these vacant posts and continue to have them on paper, harshly speaking? Therefore, taking into account the comments made, scientifically. I believe that this bill can be adopted on first reading and further elaborated on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u35	The cook gives Anatoly Grizzenko the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is now a decision to shorten the army, against the backdrop that thousands of people have come to the Supreme Council who wanted to hear our voice. I went out there, there are soldiers, veterans and invalids of Afghanistan, as well as airlifters of the Chernobyl accident, who ask the Supreme Council not to take a decision on Thursday after Bill 9127. I'd like every deputy to come out and tell them his position. Not me, and they say from the rostrum that if the Supreme Council doesn't take this decision, in accordance with their peaceful right to demonstrate, they say they'll take the Supreme Council by storm. I'd like them to hear it and listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u37	Mikhailo Kosov, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u38	Officer Prokopchuk will speak on behalf of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u39	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I don't know how else to abuse an institution that, by the way, has an external function, i.e. the protection of the state, its territorial integrity from the external enemy. When the authorities surrounded themselves today with various units with specials: "Berkuts", "hawks", "griffons", other predatory birds and animals, while there are 22,000, think about it, vacancies, another 8 000 are going to reduce the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This is because anti-Ukrainian, anti-national and anti-violence laws have been voted against against all the power structures, which leave them completely free from social guarantees. And that's why under the walls of the Supreme Council came those people, including the bloodshed of Ukraine. And please tell me I'm going to Grigory Mikolaiovich. It was said that there was no unit prepared today. How many more reports are now being written by military officials who are now waiting for their turn to go not to this pension reform, but to go to what they deserve. Because if they go into this reform, it is not clear what they are going to live for. This law is anti - Armenian, anti - Ukrainian, and anti - Ukrainian. He can't be accepted in any way! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u40	Peter Cibenko, please. Then there's the Chapel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u41	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Company of Ukraine supports this document in the first reading because there is a note to it. But to a greater extent, I took the matter today, and I took the floor to speak to representatives of the various factions that are in the meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, there are a large number of veterans, including military veterans, under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who have a bearing on the issues under consideration. So I would like to ask my colleagues, especially those who voted in the first 9127, to go out and explain their position. Because, in fact, this law destroys this system of social protection for veterans, because it actually leads to the constitutional basis, in the form of a division of the legislative, executive and judicial authority, it breaks down, I'm not talking about the 22 articles of the Constitution that are being violated here. I'd like to go out with people again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u42	Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u43	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The parliamentary group "For the Future Reforms" supports the draft in the first reading on the reduction of the strength of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for 2012. [[No. 9053]] We don't see any obstacles to why we can't do that from the active ranks of the military. I remind you that a reduction of 8,000, including 5,000 military personnel, does not, in our view, lead to a reduction in the military force. We would like to point out that any reduction or any event in this direction should be accompanied by an action program. If this shortcut is aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of the Armed Forces, we will support it with two hands. And one more question is, what do you do with those freed military personnel who didn't get a home and got no social security? This bill does not violate this question. Today, more than half a million military personnel are on the line. And about 9127. Bully and Caplienko are about to go out on the street and speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u44	Sergei Greenewecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Today at a faction meeting, we discussed the draft of this law and decided to support both the Supreme Commander and the President, and the government with regard to the adoption of this law. But they pointed out that immediate monitoring of the implementation of the President's decree on threats to national security in 2011, which are also defined by the programs that the government needs to adopt and the issue of numbers is secondary. The main issue is the financing of the armed forces and our army? And there's some optimism that the 2012 draft budget is significantly increasing the funding of the armed forces. That's why the faction supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u46	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. I would like to remind you that the committee is proposing that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to the draft law. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for approval of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for 2012 Act. [[Registration number 9053]] Please vote. [[10:54:50]] For 256 The law is passed. The factions, please. Regional Party – 181, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 5, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 5. Dear colleagues, next. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning Ukrainians abroad]] Registration number 9047. The committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[10:55:43]] For 225 Decision taken. Rapporteur - First Deputy Foreign Minister Ruslan Mihajlovich Demchenko, co-rapporteur - head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, International Relations Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u47	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning Ukrainians abroad]] The bill is designed in particular to implement the national concept of cooperation with foreign Ukrainians, as approved by the Presidential Decree of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 19 January 2010 on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Foreign Ukraine, the current state and prospects for cooperation. The bill was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The adoption of the law will greatly simplify the system of work, significantly strengthen the system of government institutions in Ukraine with the public organizations of the diaspora, help to optimize assistance to foreign countries, and strengthen its relationship with the historical homeland. In particular, the functions of coordination and the interaction of central executive bodies will be legally established. The bill also proposes to expand the list of measures taken by government authorities and local self - government in the field of cooperation with foreign Ukrainians. In particular, there is the participation of relevant central executives in the development of state programmes for cooperation with foreign Ukrainians, financial support for the implementation of measures by foreign Ukrainians. In particular, conventions, conferences, seminars, educational and educational programs, the revival and development of Ukrainian culture and language in the communities of our minority communities are held in Ukraine and abroad. Broadcasting and broadcasting television programs from Ukraine to foreign - Ukrainian countries through satellite communications and other means of communication. In addition, the bill provides for the approval of the procedures and certifications of a foreign Ukrainian to persons who are granted appropriate status. Dear national deputies, new ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u48	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u49	Dear national MPs, the new law will not only bring about real positive changes in the satisfaction of national, cultural, educational, linguistic and informational needs of the Ukrainian diaspora, but it is extremely political. As we strengthen our assistance to foreign fellow countrymen, we continue to confirm that Ukraine is actively caring for them, and we will greatly strengthen the confidence of the world’s Ukraine in our nation, its ability to support Ukraine’s interests in the world. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u50	Yuri Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, I remind you that this bill has been tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and has been designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent. The other one. I remind you that we held parliamentary hearings in October 2009 on cooperation with foreign Ukrainians. The committee was pleased to note that the important positions proposed at those hearings were included in the bill. The bill proposes to amend laws on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons, on Ukrainian citizenship and on the legal status of Ukrainians. Let me remind you of the basic novels of this law. The powers and functions of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Culture and the State Committee of Radio and Television regarding cooperation with foreign Ukrainians have been considerably clarified. An important novelty: To become a citizen of Ukraine, a foreign Ukrainian, if he has such status, does not have to live in Ukraine for 5 years. A foreign Ukrainian, if he has such status, has the right to work in businesses in Ukraine or to engage in other employment activities within the framework of Ukrainian legislation. An interesting novelty for those who will learn: It is within a certain quota of scholarships for Ukrainians who are studying in Ukraine. There is also the possibility of rewarding Ukrainians under the current Ukrainian legislation. On the committee, we stated that we should positively endorse these innovations that I have listed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Truth The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, has made several observations that they believe can be accepted. in which they write that a law can be passed if taken into account. I think that our committee, in cooperation with the relevant services, will refine and accept and make recommendations for the second reading. We recommend that we accept it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u52	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for your position on this bill. Names of the national MPs, please. Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u53	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national deputies! This bill can be said, "Finally!" Finally, the Ukrainian authorities came to the point of fulfilling their colossal duty to people who had preserved history before the world, the culture of Ukraine, which represented Ukraine in the world scene even when the Ukrainian State was not yet present. It's a good thing that we're giving foreign Ukrainians these very norms and those positions that have long been declared and will finally be realized. The bill is sufficiently well worked out, and there are literally a few, perhaps, shortcomings that will be removed from the second reading. We also have a few minor warnings from our MPs, but they're just going to complete the bill. There are no things that need to be removed from the bill and thrown out. But in this context, I want to add one more thing, the foreign country is also the ones that our country, the Ukrainian State is already independent, has thrown away a difficult social state abroad, not being able to work. And whether it's Ukrainians who have already lost Ukrainian citizenship or Ukrainians who keep Ukrainian citizenship working on wages around the world because they can't find a job and feed a family, they deserve more attention from our country. This bill declares beautiful, good ideas. But I have an offer then to the Cabinet of Ministers. Why didn't you do a little detail by introducing this bill? A few years ago, a social charter was signed with Portugal, where Ukrainian employees today are perhaps the largest. [[Vladimir Mikhajlovich also stated from the rostrum and commissioned the appropriate authorities of the Cabinet of Ministers to take care of this matter.]] There is no right answer. The Cabinet of Ministers continues to block this document from being sent to the Supreme Council to ratify it. I have a question: before we do big things, can't we do something that small? I want to remind you that the financial costs are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u54	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u55	There'll be less than one helipad out there in Cane. I'm asking you very much to do this question, and this will be proof of good will in order that we really want to do this and help the Ukrainians abroad. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u56	Victor Terrence, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u57	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Timoshenko Yulia faction. Dear colleagues, our faction will definitely support this bill. At the same time, what we need to do is take Ukraine as a state example from other countries, which have a strong normal relationship with their diaspora, is Hungary, Romania. For example, Russia in the budget, I don't know how they are now, but last year, 6 billion rubles, you think about that figure, to develop Russian abroad. In our budget, unfortunately, this project, which we've already seen, means one line of execution of both the paper and the foreign Ukrainians are written in one line. And you can be sure that the money will go to the execution of the charter in the treatment of the Party of Regions, that is to say, to the development of Russian, let's say, and there's no telling of how many Ukrainians are going to go there. Another moment. I would like to say that maybe the second reading would be worth taking some very good novels from the bill of the national MP Tarasyuk, who predicted that, unfortunately, we didn't accept it here, but who provided for the training of Ukrainians living abroad, in Ukraine at the expense of the budget. There are some very interesting things that might attract, let's say, Ukrainians abroad. Well, that's the last of it. Of course, the overall moral climate is of great importance: how do we view the Ukrainian diaspora, how do we view it, and how do we view the Ukrainian state? Whether it is at a meeting of the World Congress of Ukrainians or at other important forums held in Kiev, it has always been emphasized that in Ukraine political repression is unacceptable, that in Ukraine what is now being tortured by Yulia Timoshenko is impossible. If this continues, we will have no normal relationship with the diaspora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u58	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Shershun will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u59	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In my opinion, the question that we are considering is important to our society, to our country and to our citizens. For various reasons, especially the tragic reasons for our 20th - century State, it has been forced to immigrate, or it has been forced to flee our territory of Ukraine, our nation, millions and millions of our compatriots. For various reasons: this is World War I, World War II, repression, disagreement. And lately, in the last few years, in the absence of a normal livelihood, the opportunity to make a living with certain funds that they could earn inside the country, a very large part of our citizens were forced to leave and seek their fate outside Ukraine. It's a tragedy in itself. I believe that the 20th century is a tragedy for our Ukrainian people who have been forced to leave Ukraine. And the 21st century -- that's what we have to do to get these citizens back to Ukraine. And I'm very pleased to see that the government project today is partially designed to improve this situation, or it is making some changes to the existing legislation that confirms that the state is looking at citizens who live outside our country. I'm sure in the budget that we're going to adopt for 2012, it's the first time that we're going to have to anticipate the funding for the implementation of this law. I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance on this very issue to anticipate the costs, despite the fact that the budget is already in place, but between the first and second readings, we need to add funds and support this good idea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u60	Mikola Sherschun, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u61	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head, dear colleagues, I would like to reiterate that the Ukrainian diaspora is one of the largest in the world, but it is considered to be one of the few protected by the state. Ukrainians abroad have to organize themselves to provide for their cultural and life - style and not to dissolve into a rapidly globalizing world. So I sincerely support the idea of such a legislative initiative. However, the contents of the bill have a few points to make. The legal status of foreigners and stateless persons, including foreign Ukrainians, is governed by the Constitution, the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. Therefore, I think it is inappropriate to make changes that allow foreigners granted foreign status to work on businesses, institutions and organizations or to engage in other activities on the grounds set up for Ukrainian citizens. This standard is already fixed. The proposal to introduce annual scholarships for Ukrainians to study in Ukraine is more likely to be enshrined in article 4 of the Higher Education Act, which defines citizens' right to higher education. So I would like to take these comments into account for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the discussion has been concluded. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office is of the same mind, namely, that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws concerning foreigners. [[Registration number 9047]] [[11:10:08]] For 285 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am announcing before the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the procedure for setting housing and utility tariffs. I would like to vote on your motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:10:38]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Alipov Alexander Mikolajovich. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy of the Forest of Igor Volodymyrovich, as well as the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Natalia Yuriovna Kraljevska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u63	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill provides for a simplification of the procedure for setting local tariff administrations for residential services, such as the establishment of a 10-day term, whose consumer is reported to have changed the cost of residential services, the allocation of local self-government acts that set prices for residential services to those that are not subject to national regulatory policies, the change in housing and utility tariffs, the price of natural gas, electricity, the increase in minimum wage is regulated by the State. Therefore, the decision of the local authorities to change tariffs does not contain signs of regulatory activity but is the result of the State’s actions. The bill is in accordance with the order set out. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u64	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u65	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill was considered by our committee on July 6, 2011. It amends two laws of Ukraine: "On the principles of national regulatory policy in the field of economic activity" and "On housing services." The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted as a basis. The bill was designed to implement the National Programme for Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities 2010-2014, the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine, and the Economic Reform Programme 2010-2014. The aim of the bill is to ensure that housing and utility companies operate smoothly, as well as to create a level playing field for residential-communal operators. The bill was in agreement with virtually all branches of the executive branch. The main scientific and expert office, however, notes that the draft results of the first reading should be sent for further work. The Committee on Budgetary Questions noted that the bill had no impact on the budget. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u66	Thank you, too. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please. Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! I suggest to you the opinion of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the procedure for setting tariffs on housing and utilities. [[No. 8641]] Bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine The drafters set out to simplify and shorten the procedure for setting local self-government tariffs for the services of the LHC and thus to make the operation of the LHC companies unbeatable. The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship believes that it is impossible to achieve the stated goal by means of this bill. I think you'll agree with me. In order to simplify the procedure for setting and reviewing tariffs for JCX, we need to go another way. We need to force the authorities to work more efficiently, more quickly, and more transparently. What changes does Kabmin propose instead? First of all, it is proposed that regulatory action be put out in place to adopt acts that set tariff and utility prices from under the Act on the Principles of State Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activities. What does that mean in practice? This means that these acts will not be subject either to regulatory analysis or to publication for comments and suggestions or to mandatory results. I repeat, instead of the stated objective, the bill – first – creates conditions for uncontrolled increases in housing and utility prices and limits the rights of recipients of such services; secondly, it dramatically reduces the transparency of pricing and tariffs on housing and utilities; thirdly, it prevents public and expert discussion of prices and tariffs offered by civil servants; and fourthly, it reduces the level of information provided by consumers of residential services. According to the Industrial Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u68	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u69	According to the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, the amendments proposed by the bill are unacceptable. Our committee is proposing a bill to reject. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names, please, of the national MPs. Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The bill is very ambiguous. At a meeting of the expert group and a meeting of our MP group yesterday, the faction had a very lively discussion, there were arguments for "pro" and there were arguments for "against". On the one hand, we're listening to the position of the Ukrainian City Association, which is really argued that without these standards, the system is actually regulated, local self-government takes away the rights that exist under the Constitution, and actually leads to artificial bankruptcy in utilities. On the other hand, the bill is of a character that can be called largely non-social -- antisocial. The problem is the definition. In the end, we have decided that the first reading can support this bill, but that the second reading is not a social one, but that the social standards should be removed. Clearly, the electorate who chooses local authority also assumes responsibility for the decision taken by this local authority. In places they should appreciate the cost of water, the cost of providing heat, and other services. This should not be done by a State that cannot take account of a number of other standards. But the state shouldn't blame itself, it's the principle of the position of our faction, the function of control, the function of artificial exaggeration, and in that case it should stop these actions, the preservation or the rights of citizens. With such a balance between local utilities and local authorities, which have a constitutional right in their territory to determine their rights by pricing and the state that protects the rights of citizens, this bill can be adopted. But once again, there are a number of norms, including a severe reduction in terms for which tariff changes are taking place, it is obvious that these standards should be deleted. So only in the first reading and at the thorough reading. It can be voted on as a basis for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u72	Valerius Baranov. The right to speak is given by Oleg Zarubinsky, a faction of the People’s Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that, for twenty years now, Ukraine's utilities have been systematically destroyed, with purely populism and the slogan of love for the Ukrainian people. You and I both know that housing and utilities didn't get eight billion dollars from the debtors. We know that only seventy per cent of our country's utilities have tariffs that correspond to their real economic value. And I understand very well that everyone sitting in this room, those who run businesses, including Natalia Royal, will never let their business go to waste. At the same time, we are doing everything we can to ensure that this area is at a loss. And at a rally, setting tariffs on sausage, utilities, airplanes is unacceptable, and there is never any right to a rally. The rally will do everything we can to pay less, and we'll bury the whole area. I ask you to stop the populism that is engulfing our country and to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u74	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u75	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. It is unfortunate that we are considering such a serious issue under a reduced procedure. This has deprived me of the opportunity to ask the rapporteur who is representing the Government here in this room. The point is that the Law, which is changing, on Housing Services, there is one very interesting rule in this law that no one wants to talk about. This rule indicates that if the tariff is changed at the initiative of the central authority and so on. Returns, if a decision is taken by the central authority that leads to an increase in the cost of service, but is not offset by a tariff, that difference is reimbursed by the central authority, of course, I understand from the State budget. Unfortunately, this rule of law does not work, and the practice is that everyone pretends that there is no law. I have a question: today, in these amendments, the central authority fully assumes responsibility for setting housing and utility tariffs. But why doesn't the Government say how they're going to put this into practice? Would this rule of law work when the Government's decisions would result in costs going beyond the tariffs, wages would not compensate the public and the Government would not reimburse the difference from the budget? At least I don't see that kind of practice. On several occasions in the consideration of the State budget, I have asked such questions to the Government why this difference is not established in the State budget, exceeding the cost of the actual tariff. And unfortunately, I was unable to ask the question, and the answer is unknown. Therefore, the goals are good, but I think they are the good goals that lead to hell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u76	Yuri Carmazin, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. In my opinion, I'd like to support Mrs. Alla Alexandrovsky, Natalia Royal because, please think about the changes that are being made. They clearly violate article 22 of the Constitution. The adoption of new laws does not allow for a narrowing of rights and powers. Article 32 of the Housing and Utilities Act, to which changes are made, was that in case of changes in the cost of residential services, the performer shall report this to the consumer no later than 30 days, setting out the reasons for the change in cost and giving reasons for the reference to the consent of the relevant authorities. For example, consider: Now the changes in people’s interests in today’s ten - day period will inform you of the reasons for changing the cost and giving of reasons. You can imagine this improvement you're offering us today. Only explicitly against this law must we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u78	Thank you. Honorable fellow workers! Your last name wasn't called. Who? Baranov called. Please, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! I would like to bring some news to the head of the budget committee. The fact that housing and utility, a respected colleague, is not a business, is a service that the State and local self-government must provide to the inhabitants in a qualitative manner. This is not a business where billions are needed, but a quality service at a cost. Thus, unfortunately, poor governance, total theft and corruption have led to the fact that today's wasteful housing and utilities are unable to attract investment or indeed to provide quality services to people. And after you've done tax reform, pension reform has closed down, and hundreds of thousands of businesses have closed down, and hundreds of thousands of people will be living with miserable pensions after the adoption of the new budget, and you want to move housing and utility tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u80	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues! I think we can all be reconciled in such a form that the communal sphere is a service that has been transformed into business or corruption. And I think everyone will agree. Dear colleagues! I'm betting on the committee's proposal to vote, and the committee, both of them, is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. Although the main scientific and expert department believes that the committee needs to be sent to work on it. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee based on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the procedure for setting housing and utility tariffs. [[Registration number 8641]] Please vote. [[11:25:15]] For 223 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second sentence to put the bill on re-reading. Please vote. [[11:25:39]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there has been repeated warnings about the fact that the issue is being considered for a reduced procedure, that there is no way to ask the question. Here's what I'll tell you for information. To date, 33 questions are raised at the suggestion of committees and factions. So multiply it by 15 minutes by one question, and you get more than 8 hours. And I'll tell you, dear colleagues, how much does the Supreme Council work? I have repeatedly put the proposal to the vote, if we have planned for the plenary day, let's work as in all parliaments, before the end of their consideration. The position is unsupportable. At the same time, teaching is a constant feature. Yes, please vote as we work in all parliaments. I understand everything. But then we have to compromise. Dear colleagues, you have a proposal for a bill. What's more, we're not looking at whole laws, we're looking at butterflies, we're looking at amending laws. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to protect domestic producers in response to discriminatory and/or unfriendly acts of foreign States, customs unions or economic groups. [[Registration number 8571]] Again, there was an urgent call to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[11:27:31]] For 226 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Bandurovo Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on economic policy for Plitników Alexy Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft law was developed by the Government as part of its integrated work and aimed at enhancing the protection of the interests of Ukrainian producers and ensuring access of Ukrainian products to external markets. Taking into account practical experience, the government considers it appropriate to take measures to maximize the simplification of the mechanism for protecting the interests of Ukrainian companies in the external markets when creating discriminatory conditions and increasing their operationality. For this purpose, the bill under consideration is proposed to make the following changes: article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity, delete the rules that action should be taken in response only after attempts to resolve disputes internationally through consultations, negotiations and so on. Appropriately, measures are taken in response by the Ukrainian side on the basis of the recognition of discrimination on the part of foreign nationals, without waiting for the outcome of negotiations with foreign states on the settlement of the dispute. The other one. Define a list of public regulation bodies for external economic activities authorized to take decisions on the application of measures in response to discriminatory actions. Article 15 of the One Customs Tariff Act complements the list of laws on the basis of which decisions can be made on the application of a specific type of duty, a special moment under the Ukrainian Foreign Economic Act. Please support the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the Protection of Domestic Workers in response to discriminatory and unfriendly acts by foreign states, customs unions or economic groups. [[or]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u82	Alexy Vitaliyovich, please report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u83	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on 5 July 2011 reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Protection of Domestic Workers in response to Discrimination, or Unfriendly Acts of Foreign States, Customs Unions, or Economic Groups, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, corresponding registration number 8571 from 26.05.2011. [[This is protocol number 68.]] The bill provides for the introduction into Ukraine’s laws on external economic activity of a single customs rate of change aimed at improving mechanisms to ensure the realization of legitimate rights and interests, entities of Ukraine’s external economic activity in the field of international relations. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, has made several observations to the bill, but these observations do not significantly affect this law and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration considers it possible to adopt this bill on a basis. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of domestic goods in response to discriminatory or non-friendly actions by foreign states, customs unions, or economic groups submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, registration number 8571 and to adopt the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up when there is. Yes, my name, please. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Oleg Lašek has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I think the problem discussed in the bill needs to be addressed in a fundamental way. You have to restrict access to the country at all. I've been to Montenegro recently, people have grown potatoes like that, and they can't sell 80 kegs a kilo. And we have, in our shops, Egyptian potatoes, Chinese Greeks, Turkish bitters, tomatoes, Argentine apples, and Brazilian meat. I said, where do our peasants sell their products? How can our peasants feed their children? Why take them to school? What's with the pills? When people tell me that an apple has been grown, it has been forced by cows to feed apples because there are Argentine apples in the store. And our government initiates unwashed imports of dairy products, and then we wonder what milk in the villages is paid for by people on bracelets 70 per liter when they buy 8 bracelets in stores. So I'd like to go further and wider. Limit access to country. Nowhere in the world will you find Ukrainian halls, cucumbers, tomatoes, potatoes, cabbages, and bread. Until our products are sold in the Americas, in Germany, in France and in Turkey until then, and their products should not be sold here. We've entered SOTA, we've opened our market. In 20 years, their own production was destroyed. Millions of people without a job, without a salary. And we want to put the country in order. And now there are people under the Supreme Council, where you're hiding, where you're taking money from -- the black people, the Afghans, the children of war. Everything in the world, the fences are closed and the last cents are taken away from people. So people asked me to tell them that they would take the bans and take us all together if they passed the laws that chose people. So remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u86	Thank you. Thank you. Mikola Derkach, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u87	I ask you to pass the word to Shersun Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u88	Mikola Sherschun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u89	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head, dear colleagues! The adoption of the proposed project is relevant right now. Unfortunately, foreign markets are very often unstable, causing threats to Ukraine’s economic security. It is therefore very important to produce a legislatively fixed range of measures to protect national economic interests. It is fitting that the bill took into account the factor of Ukraine’s international obligations, that is, by pursuing economic protection policies in accordance with its own legislation, the State does so within the framework of international treaties without violating them. There's only one point to the project. A new edition of article 29 of the draft law lists measures to respond to discriminatory or unconsensual actions by other States, customs unions or economic groups, but there is no order for such measures to be applied. I think the first reading of the proposed project should be supported. And I very much hope that its standards will not have to be applied in the future, as other countries will pursue friendly policies towards Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u90	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u91	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please pass the word to Zadir Gennady Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u92	Bullying Gennady, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u93	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Bullying Gennady, Santa. The MP's Group on Reforms for the Future understands the importance of adopting this bill to amend the protection of domestic producers in response to discriminatory acts or unfriendly actions by foreign states, customs unions or economic groups. The project is called upon to remove the gap in legislation regarding the procedure for the application of measures in response to the discriminatory actions of foreign states in relation to entities of foreign economic activity in Ukraine. In fact, the bill deals with the issue of the powers of the State authorities to regulate external economic activity in the field of the application of different types of measures in response to discriminatory actions, in particular clearly distinguishes the powers of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Inter-ministerial Commission of International Trade. Thus, the adoption of the law will allow these issues to be settled and will allow effective action to be taken in response to discriminatory actions against the State of Ukraine. That's why our MP group will support this bill. But we realize that there are also some gaps that need to be worked out in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u94	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u95	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! If I look at this law, I hope that some should be made clear in the eyes that the modern world is not as beautiful and as unloved as we pictured it when we were giving up nuclear weapons when we were signing the WTO treaties and other international agreements that we ratify under a reduced programme, in a reduced procedure without considering the consequences of them. And it is now necessary to adopt or amend existing legislation on non-marital acts of other nations. It is time to realize that today’s world is not so peaceful, it is not so friendly. And when we ratify, when we make decisions, we have to be guided by the first actions of state, national, civil interest. And the simplified procedure, Vladimir Mikhailovich, including military reform or, in short, does it not allow us to ask the question, What is the state of affairs today? And including why you're asking that question. The Deputy Minister of Economics didn't tell us, and what did we get in a year, which analysis of the Soviet laws, what should we review in this regard? The committee is silent. The Ministry is silent. And for us, it's a shortcut program. So soon we'll bring the country to the pen. And I'm pretty sure that's what this whole program is all about. So once again, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is a question, of course, of a reduced procedure, no one denies. But a completely reduced procedure does not allow us to express, at least, information: and what is happening in this regard, including in the economic spheres. And one more question. Do you remember the Ring scandal? What losses did Ukraine suffer? No one answered and the government defended its interests. You remember the modern state that the IMF requires us to make changes to the current tariffs and so on, as energy supplies increase, demands, insists on doing so. Is this a friendly attitude? It's interference with our internal issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. The "BUT-Paternity" faction is entitled to the moment of Sergey Teryohin's speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u97	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Let's look not at the title of the law, but at its essence. The name is good, and I would like to vote immediately and in general for that name. But what's the point? It is written, suppose, that the decision of the Interministerial Commission of External Trade can apply an economic embargo to a country or group of countries. I remind you that economic embargoes are generally imposed on our world by a decision of the United Nations Security Council, not by the Interlocutor Commission and Kabmin. Or suppose that if certain tariff or non-tariff measures are applied to the country, there is a special procedure within the World Trade Organization. And by this procedure, we need to notify Geneva headquarters six months before such sanctions are introduced and then have a so-called appeal settlement with other WTO countries. And what it says here is that it can be done in a week. So, you know what, let's look not at the beautiful name, but at the content of the bill. We feel that this is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u98	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u99	In view of the fact that this content is not available and is not reasonable, such a project cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. The conclusion of the committee is to adopt the bill as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to protect domestic producers in response to discrimination and non-community of foreign states, customs unions or economic groups. [[or]] [[Registration number 8571]] Please vote. [[11:42:03]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm bringing to the attention of the leaders of the MP factions and groups at 12 o'clock during a break at the request of two factions: the Faction "BUT" – "Batakščina" and the faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – a meeting of the Conciliation Council will take place with the participation of faction leaders. At 12 o'clock after the break announcement, please meet me in the Head's office. Dear colleagues, I now propose to your weight a bill amending article 229 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the responsibility for ticket-free travel in urban transport]] Proposal from the committee: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Let's vote. [[11:43:01]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Alipov Alexander Mikolajovich. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement issues, Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u101	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, is granted the law the right of the authorities to deal with administrative offences related to the cost of transportation in the city. The adoption of the law will increase the liability of passengers for the cost of travelling in urban public transport, create conditions under which the full amount of payment for the services provided for the carriage of passengers will be provided. The bill is accepted in accordance with the law. Without notice, the bill is agreed with the All - Ukrainian Association of Employers of Ukraine, the Federation of Employers of Ukraine, the joint representative body of all Ukrainian trade unions and trade unions, and the Association of Cities of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u102	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Victor Viktorovich, I'm asking for a committee decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u103	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement, discussed the draft Law on Amendments to Article 229 of the Code on Administrative Offences, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for free passage in urban transport]] The bill proposes to introduce to article 229 of the Code "On Administrative Offences" changes which empower the authorities of road transport and electricity to deal with cases of offences provided for in part two and fourth of article 135 of the Code on Administrative Violations. After reviewing the bill, the committee points to the absence of a systematic approach by the subject of the legislative initiative to update the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations. An analysis of article 135 of the Code of Administerment indicates that more important changes are needed than those proposed by the subject of the legislative initiative. In particular, part two of article 135 of the Code of Administering provides for administrative responsibility for the passenger’s ticket-free travel, as well as for driving without a child’s ticket between 7 and 16 years of age in urban transport, and the right to file protocols has an air transport authority in Ukraine. Similarly, it is the case that officials of railway transport authorities are responsible for filing reports on suburban or inland waterway buses. These positions are unsuccessful and need to be corrected, but the bill leaves this out of the question. The committee also considers it appropriate to provide for the administrative responsibility of drivers for the carriage of passengers without tickets by amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations. In the light of the Committee’s presentation, it is necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus is of the same opinion. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Yes, Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u105	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I wanted to show you what the time of our government is going on. That's a lawyer -- let's just say it's a lawyer -- 4-5 lines. Five lines of amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences! A code that contains more than 300 changes and additions, which patched-over, which has to be completely changed, including conceptually changed, because it's accepted before. According to the old Constitution of Ukraine, the passed Constitution, that is, the two constitutions he had already survived, was adopted on the basis of the third. And this is a great government leader who does not find time to communicate with any opposition MP, in grave violation of the Constitution of Ukraine; who today is afraid that about 15,000 people are now under the Supreme Council of Ukraine and are demanding answers to the questions that have led them here today. Those who signed the same bill were urged to do so. And Azarov also signed it. And those who voted in the first reading for the execution of judicial decisions. Because of this, the people, Vladimir Mikhailovich, gave the term, the ultimatum was set — half an hour and so on. I understand someone gave the command to set up a high fence. Obviously, this cost went to the Supreme Council. Of course, this law must be rejected. I agree with the professional opinion of the Committee and the Scientific and Scientific Administration. And I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to also agree and give a speech to some representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u106	Have a seat, please. And, dear colleagues, the election campaign has not yet begun. In the Supreme Council. I want to say it again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. People’s deputies are speaking in the Supreme Council. If you consider it necessary, please give a ruling to the regulatory committee. Dear colleagues! Now that I've made this decision, I'm going to remind you of how the social benefits have been cancelled so that we can take full responsibility for what's been going on in the country. Let me remind you now. And about the fence. There is no relation to this fence of the Supreme Council. So I would ask you not to impose on the Supreme Council what. I say again: Go to the Kyiv City Administration. And we have no relation to this fence. And this is not the territory of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I therefore put to the vote the first proposal, in accordance with the Rules, for adoption as a basis, since the committee proposes that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to the draft law. The same decision was made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. But in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending article 229 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the responsibility for ticket-free travel in urban transport]] [[Registration number 8549]] Please vote. [[11:51.]] For 206 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. [[11:51:25]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that I have been personally accused of deciding to cancel the benefits, let me remind you briefly, within a few minutes, that this practice has been introduced in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in conjunction with the Cabinet of Ministers since 2000. In 2000, two social laws were stopped. In 2001 For 2001, ten laws were stopped in the State Budget. In 2002 – eleven, in 2003 – seventeen, 2004 – twenty, in 2005 – two, in 2006 – twenty-two, in 2007 – thirty-eight, in 2008 – 102 changes to 66 laws were made at 105 billion. Who voted? Take a lift and take a look. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, More, dear fellows. After the Constitutional Court ruled on the unconstitutionality of the change, correction or suspension of benefits by the State budget of Ukraine, it was decided on 22 May 2008 by the Constitutional Court. On May 28, the Cabinet of Ministers decreed 530 "Some issues of social protection of individual categories of citizens" to be restored, I would stress, by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, i.e. stopped the benefits. After that, in June 2008, the President of Ukraine here in the session room voted in favour of stopping and correcting a number of benefits. Voting: 156 and 72. There are now substantial accusations, including the presiding officer himself. Therefore, dear colleagues, these changes are a gross violation committed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let us take the proper responsibility and work properly, see what decisions we make, how much these decisions will be made. And if the state can't make these decisions today, what can it do to reduce the impact on the least protected populations, because screaming, groaning, and mutual accusations won't do anything at all. This information will be published. So please read, everyone was involved, all of the factions. Calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Nuclear Fuels Act, 8709. The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:54:55]] For 222 Decision taken. Let's do a report, a report, a report, a break, a meeting of the Conciliation Board, and then we'll finish this discussion after the discussion. Is there no objection? None. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Czech Sergey Mihajlovich. The correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Romanyuk Mikopovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u107	Honourable National Deputies, a draft of the Ukrainian Nuclear Fuel Procurement Act, prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the aim of organizing issues of nuclear power-using operators to purchase nuclear fuel at public expense. The need for the adoption of the Ukrainian Nuclear Fuel Procurement Act is defined in article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement, which was adopted in the tenth year. It sets out a standard for defining specific issues related to the specificities of procurement of such goods, jobs, and services as nuclear fuels, irradiated fuel elements, and materials for nuclear reactors. According to the bill, the subject of purchase is nuclear materials, irradiated fuel cells, timbers, and heat-visible collections, nuclear reactor cassettes, absorbing cutting systems for the management and protection of nuclear reactors, services related to the production of non-radiated fuel-based thermal storage and treatment of irradiated and irradiated heat-responsible collections, such as transportation, storage and processing. [[conversion, enrichment, factory, etc.]] The adoption of a law on the specificities of nuclear fuel procurement will allow nuclear fuel to be purchased by manufacturers of goods, suppliers of their subsidiaries, or other enterprises on the basis of direct contracts, which will contribute to the optimal and rational use of public funds. The implementation of the bill does not require additional financial and other costs. Please support adoption on the basis of a bill on the characteristics of nuclear fuel procurement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u108	Deputy Head of the PEC Committee for the PEK Romanyuk Mikola Prokopovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u109	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on the Fuel and Energy Complex of Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security at its meeting on 6 July 2001 reviewed the draft Law on the peculiarities of nuclear fuel purchases. [[Registration number 8709]] During the consideration and discussion of the draft law, members of the committee determined that the issue was relevant and constituted a separate subject of legislative regulation. It should be noted that this area should be regulated by special acts according to world practice. For example, EU legislation deals with the following documents: in the Council of the European Union, the Statutes of the Euroatmu Supply Agency, the Euroatmu Supply Agency, the Supply Agency and so forth. At the same time, it should be noted that the bill needs to be revised to a second reading, taking into account the proposals made by Ukrainian national deputies and the provisions of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on public procurement. [[Registration number 8709]] The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading of the draft Law. [[Registration number 8709]] Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! Report, report done. Both of you like that. Now we're going to sign up for this talk and then we're going to have a discussion after the break. Is there no objection? Please. Caplienko, Grivkowski and Karmazin. Thus, honourable colleagues, a break of up to 12.30 minutes is announced. Faction leaders, please gather for a meeting in accordance with the initiative of the two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. We're continuing the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u112	Yes, events happen on their own. Please, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! There has just been a meeting of the Conciliation Board of Directors of the Deputies, which was initiated by the Faction of the Fatherland and our colleagues, Our Ukraine, the People's Self-Defense. The question that we have raised is unrighteous in our view, and not only in our view, the unjust trial of Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenk is coming to an end. The interrogated witnesses, the peer reviews, listened to everyone who could only be heard in the courtroom. I'm not going to talk about what's going on, and I'm not going to talk about it because there's no witness in this particular case, and there's no argument to confirm the guilt. But the question is different now. Neither Julia Timoshenko nor Yuri Lucenko can influence the court anymore, can influence the witnesses, cannot influence the experts, the auditors, and other lawyers involved in the trial. One question is, On what basis do they hold onto the bars, having an extremely difficult state of health, both Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko. We addressed the Conciliation Council yesterday to the faction leaders to sign a petition to the Pechersky court on behalf of the relevant judges who are conducting the trial, asking them to change the measure of precautionary action for nondeparture. Neither Julia Timoshenko nor Yuri Lucenko, as many as they are in court, have ever, not even once, allowed any thought of leaving the country’s homeland. Julia Timoshenko even had the opportunity to return to Brussels on a one - time basis at the invitation of European structures, spent a day and a half in a field trip, and returned to the courtroom. We turned to our colleagues, our colleagues found a mistake in speaking to them, and we apologized to them. Yes, it was a mistake that could be judged to be pressure on a court of law. We've fixed it today, and we've re-examined our colleagues, and we're going to address it on behalf of the entire Supreme Council, because the faction manager is still very political. To refer to judges who are in charge of the trial, change the measure of precaution. And the second question that we raised is, they say, measure, but it's half. It is in the Supreme Council that we must look for a way out of the situation that Ukraine faced with these shameful processes. It's in the Supreme Council Hall. Any other body or institution, or establishment, will not take responsibility to decide something, it will cast a shadow corresponding to that institution or institution and so on. Dear colleagues! We concluded with the fact that the majority went to consult with their factions. They'll be at your place.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u114	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u115	There will be appropriate congregations, appropriate consultations with the faction's asset. We ask you once again to look at the bills we have tabled that regulate this situation, especially the Swedish bill. And notice that we're asking you to sign a document that's more of a moral significance than a real legal one, because all the troubles that have been filed have been rejected. Colleagues, we want constructive work to take place in the hall. So there's not what's going on right now behind the walls of the Supreme Council. These are also the consequences of what is happening, including in the Cave Court. We're still asking you to look at these things, because, as they say, they don't deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u116	We continue to discuss the draft Law on the Features of Procurement of Nuclear Fuels. The word is Caplienne, a group called Reforms for the Future. Grivkowski will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, we discussed this bill, a reminder for all of us, after the break of 8709 -- the Ukrainian Nuclear Fuels Act. The MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill, but with some remarks. First. It is proposed to introduce into a separate law a procedure for purchasing energy complex issues, such as nuclear fuel and TV, TVS, and so forth. But why should this not be included in the Act on State Procurement? Why should this be governed by a separate law? The second question. It is suggested that one participant buys it. The only question. Today, there are a number of high-level enterprises in the world that can produce high-quality fuel for our stations, nuclear power plants with VWP reactors. I want to remind you that such companies are in France, such companies are in the United States, and such companies are in Russia, with no names to advertise. So why one participant? So it turns out that the official will determine which company to work with, including his political disposition or his incoherence to another company. I wanted to remind you that our main principle is quality and delivery times, and cost. Next question. It's a strange procedure to extend the terms of the contract and increase the cost of the contract by 20 percent. I'd like to remind you that it's not about buying chairs or shoots, but it's about making system tapes or tweeds for a year and a year and a half that go solely under personal orders. There are no extensions, and there cannot be a personal increase in the value of the contract here. We point out that, from that point of view, it's probably about someone wanting to increase the cost of a contract in the course of its execution, which is unacceptable within public procurement. So with these remarks, I wanted us to accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u118	Grivkowski. Karmazin Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u119	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law should be adopted in view of the law on State procurement, which provided for in article 2, that the characteristics of nuclear fuel purchases, non-radiated fuel elements for nuclear reactors should be defined by a separate law of Ukraine. But if you look at the law that this government has offered us, which, I think, is exactly as they now suggest to the Supreme Council to go to the elections in time for today's elections, the people who have come to the walls of the Supreme Council and here are about 15,000 people, they are right to propose. Because the Constitution had been re-loaded, the Constitution had been adapted. The President's presidential election is due to be because he was elected by a completely different Constitution for another term, for the term of the Supreme Council's term of office, because it was chosen by a completely different mandate, and for the term, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u120	Yuri Anatolyovich, let's talk about nuclear fuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u121	And I'm very close to nuclear fuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u122	Very close, but too far away.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u123	Because today the people standing here are nuclear fuels, Adam Ivanovich. And now, for you to know, the government needs to be cleaned up in time. To clean up, let them live, only under such conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u124	Turn off the microphone. Yuri Anatolyovich, don't make me turn off your microphone. Talk about it. It's going to be a political theme -- you're going to talk about the political aspects. Criticize the law, not the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u125	I'm talking about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u126	I can't hear you. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u127	Give me that, then you'll comment on the speech. Dear friends, the law is called the specialty of purchasing nuclear fuel. Where are the features? There are no features here except that there is one participant, or corruption, that is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u128	Question completed. Question completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u129	Adam Ivanovich, you took it from me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u130	Yuri Anatolyovich, you will speak for two minutes when you speak on the subject of the bill. You can't have a claim. You don't have 30 seconds, unfortunately. I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee to adopt a law on the specificities of nuclear fuel purchases. [[Registration number 8709]] Please vote. [[12:42:47]] For 244 A decision has been made. We are considering: a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the arrest of seagoing vessels. [[Registration number 8553]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u131	Take as many votes as the Party of Regions, you'll be the legislator of fashion. [[12:43:23]] For-200 Supported. Reported the head of the State Security Inspectorate on maritime and river transport Sobolovsky Grigorovitch. Prepare Pritika.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the arrest of seagoing vessels. Ukraine’s draft law provides for appropriate amendments to Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the International Convention on the Standardization of Certain Rules for the Arrest of Ships. This decree was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 7, 2011, at number 3702. The purpose of the act is to amend Ukraine's legislative acts in connection with Ukraine's accession to the above-mentioned international convention, namely the Ukrainian Code of Conduct and the Code of Civil Procedure. In order to strengthen the jurisdiction of the judicial authority by territorial indication of the location of the port, the draft act provides for additions to article 16 of the Ukrainian Code of Civil Procedure and to part four of article 114 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. In order to expand the area of competence of the territorial judicial authority, the draft act provides for additions to part of article 110 of the Civil Procedure Code. The adoption of the draft act will contribute to bringing Ukraine's legislative base on the arrest of seagoing vessels into line with international standards. On the basis of the above, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u133	Thank you, sit down, please. Dmitri Mikitovich Pritika, member of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u134	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice discussed at its meeting on 15 June 2011 the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the arrest of ships by the Cabinet of Ministers. The purpose of the bill is to amend Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the International Convention on the Standardization of Certain Rules for the Arrest of Ships, which the rapporteur has already stressed. The project proposes to amend article 16 of the Ukrainian Code of Civil Procedure and article 114 of the Ukrainian Code of Civil Procedure, which defines exclusive jurisdiction in matters, and to establish that disputes arising out of a maritime requirement are dealt with by the court at the location of the Ukrainian seaport in which the vessel for which the maritime requirement is to be met. It is also proposed that article 110 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Ukraine, which regulates the jurisdiction of the defendant’s choice, should be supplemented by the provision that claims for damages caused by the collision of vessels, as well as the collection of compensations for the rescue at sea and from other maritime requirements, may also be presented at the location of the vessel. The Committee, after examining the proposed amendments to the draft Act, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the arrest of ships. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u135	Thank you, sit down, please. Please sign up for the consideration of this matter. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The proposed bill certainly deserves attention. But I would like you to listen to the opinion of scientists who believe that the draft does not take into account that joining this convention, which was concluded in Brussels on 10 May 1952, requires changes not only to the Master's Procedural Code and the Civil Procedural Code, but, above all, to the Code of Merchandise, in particular to article 42 of the Maritime Requirements, the content of which is to be consistent with the content of part of the first article of that convention, which defines exactly what requirements are considered maritime. However, such changes in accordance with article 116 of the Rules cannot be made to a bill that is now before the first reading. Since this is not the case, this bill is lost, and it has to be worked out. In view of the fact that we need to go to the legal level of any legal situation that there are, I propose that this bill be proposed for further work, because it cannot be further worked out on the committee within the framework of the current Rules, that is the first. And the second. A bill that was fraudulently introduced to the Justice Committee meeting in violation of the Rules, which today was convened by protestors, I suggest you, Volodymyr Mikhajlovich, to put in place, and we cancelled its acceptance in the first reading as one that was adopted in violation of the Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It'll take away all the social tension that's in the country right now. So I'd like to ask, I wasn't part of your "high" meeting right now in the high office, but that might be a good way out of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u137	Olena Shustik, Faction "BUT" is a Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u138	Olena Shustik, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Our faction will not support the bill, because its aim is to bring Ukraine's legislation into line with the International Convention on the Standardization of Certain Rules for the Arrest of Ships, and instead the project envisages changes only to procedural legislation and does not take into account the need for amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Merchant Shipping. Article 42 of the Maritime Requirements needs to be aligned with the content of the convention. This cannot be done at the second reading stage, since this is contrary to the Supreme Council’s Rules, although unfortunately due diligence, logic, and common sense are not taken into account today. The Kabminian project, which means that it has the right to life and existence, is the same as the project that was carried out through the Supreme Council Committee on Justice, which was deprived of the benefit of 16 categories of the population. It turns out that in the new draft budget, an excess of 100 million over last year's funding for the President's administration is, and for social benefits, black people, Afghans, children of war, low-income families are not. Political relevance convinces parliamentarians by one wave of hand to vote for such shameful bills and allows such people in a robe called Kiriev to prosecute the leader of the opposition, Timoshenko. The Faction "BUT" – "Fatherland" refuses to vote in favour of such bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill needs to be returned to work. I therefore put to the vote the first proposal for the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the arrest of seagoing vessels. [[Registration number 8553]] [[12:52:26]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you and I beg of you and I beg you, let's not give you any trouble. Even so, in line with the calls of the national deputies, a conflict took place. I think we have to take responsibility for what happened. No one's passed the law yet. I ask you to work on this law on the committee and make it civilized. And the suggestion was that the law would state that no less than the actual payments would be paid. So let's write this down and vote before we demonstrate this hostility. Because if you think someone's gonna stay in this session room after these people come in, I think you're making a big mistake. So I'm asking you, dear colleagues, focus here, go to work, not. To come to work to speak, to read out your manifesto. And please don't raise your hands. Because I'm glad you found out that you showed up for work. And let's understand. And if you raise your hand, read how you voted in 2008 -- 105 billion off people's benefits. [[B in m in s a l in]] Personally. Look, take the June 2008 vote and you'll see. And now I'm asking you, let's make the right decisions, let's work. We've made up our minds. The draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications is now being announced for consideration. [[on the provision of services to the State Customs Service of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 8683]] I would like to vote on your motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[12:54:37]] For 213 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the State Customs Service, Dorokhovsky Alexander Mikolayovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Transport and Liaison with Morocco, Yuri Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u140	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications was developed by the State Customs Service to implement the Action Plan on Liberalisation by the European Union of Visa Procedures for Ukraine. The bill provides for the introduction of the State Customs Service to the list of ministries and departments that are provided with telecommunications services in the first place, and the closure of the final equipment takes place in a special order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. The proposed changes will, firstly, ensure the unbreakable operation of the Single Real-time Information System of the Maintenance; secondly, they will create favourable conditions for the further implementation of the electronic declaration, which will ultimately enable customs authorities to carry out their tasks more effectively. The implementation of the draft law will take place within the limits of the budget for the financing of the customs authorities. There's no need for extra material costs. Please support this bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u141	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Yuri Mikolaiovich Moroko, please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Transport and Communications had considered Bill 8683 at its meeting and had decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, as a result of the first reading of the bill, that it should be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Please support this decision of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Nobody insists? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal is to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. Is there a denial? None. That's why I'm voting on the committee's proposal: on acceptance as a basis and the whole bill amending the Ukrainian Telecommunications Act, registration number 8683. [[on the provision of services to the State Customs Service of Ukraine]] Please vote. [[12:57:27]] For 273 The law is passed. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Renting or Concession of Centralized Water, Heating and Water Management Facilities, registered number 8204. [[on improving the order of transmission]] Short cut? Okay. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[12:58:12]] For 215 Decision taken. Rapporteur – National Deputy of Ukraine Igor Mikolaiovich Głuschenko, co-rapporteur – Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy of Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Act amending the Law on the Specialities of Renting or Concession of Centralized Water, Heat and Water Supply in Municipal Property has been developed in accordance with the provisions of the National Programme for Reforming and Developing Housing and Utilities. Now enterprises with centralized water, heat and water supply, which are owned by utilities, have receivables and creditors of 13.4, 13.5 billion dollars. The damage to businesses is essentially 1.9 billion dollars. There are more than a third of water and sanitation and thermal networks in the emergency state, about 30 percent of the heat points. Urgent measures to modernize and renovate housing and utilities require significant financial resources. The project is based on the need to facilitate the rental or concession of centralized water supply and water supply facilities, which are owned by utilities, the establishment of conditions for the protection of private investors' capital assets, which will facilitate private investment and technical restocking of residential enterprises and the development of municipal infrastructure. The bill doubles the deadline for the submission of bids and bids, broadens the rights of local councils to delegate to the authorities of the state executive authority the authorization of the approval of the competition documentation, the conduct of the competition and the determination of its winner, the consent and signing of the contract or concession of centralized water supply and water supply facilities. The bill is also foreordained.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u145	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u146	The implementation of the bill in the proposed edition does not require additional funding from the State Budget. Please accept as a basis in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u147	Thank you, too. Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov, deputy chairman of the committee, please, regarding the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The bill was considered by our committee on April 20, this year. Well, in general, you can take into account the state of the engineering networks, you can agree and support the legislative initiative, including shortening the terms of the leases or concessions, but you have to agree with the comments of the Chief Research Administration. Authorize local self-governance bodies at different levels and normative depreciation deductions to improve the basics and to take them into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. The Committee on Budget Affairs noted that the implementation of the bill would have an impact on the income portion of the budget, which would require determining the date of entry into force of the law adopted in the future. As a result of its consideration of the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis for further further elaboration of the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u149	Thank you, too. Your Honor, please sign up for this discussion. Vladimir Josephovich Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u150	I would like to take the floor to Alexander's Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u151	Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u152	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Once again, I call attention to the inadmissibility of condemning socially important, resonant issues on a reduced procedure that deprives you of the opportunity of deputies to ask the rapporteur a question, to make a valid statement and to explain to the voters the trouble of these bills. When it comes to the possibility of transferring utilities to concessions, i.e. water, sewerage, heat and so on, we must understand people and explain to them that a private owner who will invest money, for example, in these facilities should be paid off. Explain how, in addition to raising tariffs, these private investments can be redeemed today. There is no other answer. The State is depriving itself of responsibility for the maintenance of the communal sphere because the state in which the water supply, sewerage and facilities were brought today for 20 years, not a penny of money, serious money for modernization, no repairs, and we're thinking, the person who's going to invest these billions? This is ridiculous. So we create an illusion that we are supposed to have an impact on the situation until we have an answer to where the money is coming from, including those interested in the public, that is, how it will return money, we will have no serious investment in housing and utilities, and do not deceive people. I call on people not to enact such laws under reduced procedures, and people do not understand what is going on in this room, so they go out on the streets. And they're doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to put a motion to the vote after I've concluded my consideration of this question: to work at the evening session on a full-time basis before the conclusion of all the issues identified by the schedule for today. Dear colleagues, please. But you proposed, we agreed on the agenda, but you had to do it. So I'm going to put a proposal on the vote so that we can work. Gregory Smythech, please. You vote then, support and you'll be all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u154	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Especially I, if, in my view, are considering proposals for the transmission of water-, heat-, electricity- and other supplies that ensure the viability of our cities and villages, I'm against it at all. Can someone give me an example of a tenant coming in, putting in a substantial amount of money, and improving the situation in this regard? I don't know such an example. Can someone give me an example that these services have decreased when the transmission goes away? For example, I do not know such services. Then there's a question, and who's going to take it if it's not profitable, and who's going to take it if it's going to be risky to invest this crazy money, because in Kiev, just look at what kind of communication changes are going on, how much more money is going to have to be invested. Then I have a question, and on what account? It's the only thing that's going on today. Anyone who has a bearing on the construction or at least intersects with it knows that when construction is done, as it were, technical conditions are issued. What these technical conditions require is that you either pay for the money you spend there, for the reconstruction, or you do a lot of work. So the owner, renting heat-, electricity- or other networks, imposes, as a private company of the developer, not the norm, but the superiors, in a 20-fold, 50-fold relation to what it needs to be dealt with. Then I have a question: if you are the owner, you were encouraged to increase these services, their quantity and quality, and keep more customers, and it goes the other way around. It feels like these companies that are taking these communications in terrible shape are counting on profit. We don't have any mercens in this area. What if you're called meth? So I'm going to be very surprised -- there's no such thing. I think we need to take this situation into account and take into account the importance, because most people can't, they can't pay for these services and they're subsidized. We need to review.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u155	Microphone, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u156	The whole concept is not to go out with separate changes to the law, but to go out with a new concept in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u157	Mikola Dmitrovich Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u158	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine I agree with those who voted in favour of this bill in short motion to give their arguments that this bill cannot be adopted. We can't if we understand how this will affect the growth or non-increasing of municipal tariffs. We've learned about the quality that this sector needs colossal investment, a private investor can hardly pull out this whole burden, and it's clear that, by the percentages that are in the banking interest on lending, it can be quite natural, let's say, to have an absolute impact on the growth of municipal tariffs. You're all national constituencies, you all realize that this election campaign doesn't start, but we have to work always reporting to our voters. One third of the five more important issues is the rise in municipal tariffs that Ukrainian citizens say, and let's say that this is their legitimate position, because they don't increase at this rate either in wages or in retirement. So it seems to me that this issue needs to be approached more delicately, and the reduced procedure here is inappropriate -- it should be a separate parliamentary hearing. Because if we're talking about the LHK, which is an element, let's say, of the implementation of this program -- the issue of concession -- there's got to be more economics here, there's got to be numbers to talk about and understand what mechanisms are being set up. Because this mechanism, which is about improvement, what is it aimed at? As for improvement, what mechanisms? Yes, indeed, someone will quickly take possession of some kind of watercanal or something. How, then, can this owner, his standard of profitability, be influenced by the city’s authorities? How? How Can Citizens Affect? So it seems to me that this bill, although it is, let's say, its name and direction is absolutely correct, but it's too early to accept it. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd like to tell you that you're as much a national MP as we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u159	Turn on the microphone, please. Please finish. I asked you to turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u160	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, with respect to you, you are the Head of the Supreme Council, the same national deputy as us. The only thing we've trusted you all to do is vote for you as Head of the Supreme Council, let's say we hold a meeting in the Supreme Council. And you have no authority over a parliamentary prosecutor to name, comment or accuse anyone. I would like us to continue, despite all the strained moments of the Supreme Council, to remain human and to be tolerant of one another. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u161	Thank you. I strongly support such an offer. I'd like to see the movement, and we'll be fine. Because everyone thinks it's necessary to come and tell me how bad I am and go. And I say to everyone, please, please, and please, let's work. Dear colleagues, Baranov, one minute, please, from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, housing and utilities is a subject that is loved in our Parliament because it is possible to shine love for the people. Those who have never worked in this area and have hardly taken anything seriously on this subject are welcome to talk about it. I want to tell you, dear friends, that we will not invent anything but a world civilization. The whole world is working on these principles: either it's a utilities wholly or it's a private enterprise, or it's an enterprise that's a concession, that's a lease, that's without ownership, that's a transfer of ownership, that's got to manage it under investment conditions, lower tariffs in the future, and provide quality services. That's how the world works. We see and say with you today: tariffs, according to economic calculations, we will not allow us to conduct. But we want to get quality services and an investor who wants to come and make money, we won't let go. Because they won't let go. That is, we don't even want to adopt a law on concessions to enable investors to move forward in this sector and to put order there. It turns out, stay there, come here. Well, we lie to people, we tell them, it'll all be free, you don't pay for anything. I want to remind you that you're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u163	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u164	Pensioners pay 98 per cent for all utilities. We support irresponsible people here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, they're all here, aren't they? Now let's move on to making a decision. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Specialities of Rental or Concession of Centralized Water, Heat and Water Management Objects in Municipal Property. [[on improving the order of transmission]] [[Registration number 8204]] Please vote. [[13:13:16]] For 206 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for the drafting of this bill, for further work. [[Registration number 8204]] [[13:13:46]] For 229 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you a bill amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act. [[on improving the housing management system and dealing with individual issues in the area of housing and utility services]] [[Registration number 8391]] That's your offer. As a result, I put it to a vote: to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:14:27]] For 214 Decision taken. Reporters, reporter, excuse me, National Deputy of Ukraine Valerius Anatoliyovich Bondik. The correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy of Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, your honor, it is in this case that the bill for reforming housing services and the bill for reforming housing services, is the subject of proposals that I'm making for your favor, for your consideration. In fact, there's a situation where there's not enough housing services in the market. Local governments should have a degree of freedom, including the listing of not only the Jewish monopolies, as in the old language, but also the owners of apartment buildings, OSBB. What do we propose with these changes? First of all, avoiding monopolies. Secondly, the flexibility of housing-communal reform. Because there's a state-wide program, by 2014, we have to reform this sector. Those who are satisfied with the services offered by the JEKI do not even exist in this room, but no investor comes. Why doesn't he come? Because there is no guarantee of free access and development to these services. So, dear colleagues, I think by improving this bill we're not finishing reforming the housing and utility sector, but we guarantee co-owners of multi-housing houses for decent maintenance and infrastructure, and energy-sustaining resources that can be offered in this multi-housing house. Even if you look at what's going on in the market. The owner company is building a house, creating its own bank, creating its own payload, providing services and even a price, and in calculating the provision of services, it puts its depreciation, the salary of its accountants, that is, those who are separated from the housing and utilities process. But the purpose of this improvement and the amendment of this bill is to allow local self-government authorities to choose more and more widely.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u167	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u168	And choose the quality of the service that they can provide, including not only the jacks, but also the OSBB. Thank you for your attention. I offer to accept, for there will be no voices, I offer to receive in the first reading and to send for the first reading again. I understand there will be no votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u169	Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, you and I are experienced, aren't we? I'm talking about networks. Which networks are either private or nobody's. Neither public nor municipal, unfortunately, is there, because their condition and service are so pitiful that you understand for yourself some of the services that everyone here has talked about, which we provide. So the fact that we rejected this bill is that we just asked the question of putting it in the dead end of the last one. And I'm sure without reforming the housing and utility economy, we won't have any authority with you. On that point. The committee carefully considered the proposals made by the people’s deputies, the nine, and suggested that the bill be supported. There are a lot of contradictions here, so I also support the rapporteur's initiative to have the entire room vote on the second reading of this bill so that we don't reject it or lose it. Please support our initiative as two confessors, and the committee’s decision was to take the lead in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u171	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. National MP Matchuk, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the committee, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill on the committee has been considered and very much has been discussed, because the bill itself contains a number of mere inadequacies that could normally be removed before the second reading. For example, local self-government bodies are given the task of monitoring compliance with legislation to protect consumer rights in residential services. Who in the local authorities will exercise such control? There is no answer and no answer. Or the next thing. The owners of residential and non-residential buildings are obliged to make the cost of using residential and non-residential services proportional to the proportion of housing or non-residential facilities they own. What's with the counters? Why are we talking about the actual calculation of the water consumed or the heat received, if all the same goes back to the Soviet Union when everything is paid according to square meters? But that's all nonsense. The main thing is that this bill lays down three principles, three principles that cannot be supported under any circumstances, or in the first reading vote, or even in return for work on the first reading. Because these are principles, these are things that can't be changed. The first principle is that there is no choice for owners of residential and non-residential premises, because they have to hire the service provider and the end. They are not able to handle their own premises. They can't, by creating the OSBB, serve the premises. It's principle two. If owners do not want to, owners against or owners do not gather to make such an inappropriate decision, then the provider will determine, or forcefully, the local government. What he's going to do about it is that one Lord God knows. And principle three is the absence of any responsibility of the service provider to his actual hire.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u173	Microphone. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u174	Thank you. Please do not support him or send him to the first reading. You just need to put a cross on it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, no one insists on speaking? No, it's not. Then the question is concluded. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act. [[on improving the housing management system and addressing individual issues in the area of services]] [[Registration number 8391]] Please vote. [[13:22:31]] For-40 The decision is not taken. In view of this level of support, I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative of the draft law. [[13:23:01]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[on improving legal regulation]] [[Registration number 8309]] Your request is for me to put to the vote a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:23:40]] For 210 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Sergei Volodymyrovich Gordijenko. Coroner is the head of the committee's subcommittee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Mikola Fedorovich Trajduk, then I ask of the committee, please. Trajduk Mikola Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u176	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, I'm here in two, both for Sergey Volodymyrovich and for myself. As I am one of the authors of this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u177	Then four minutes for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u178	Yeah, but I'm very smart. This bill or draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine refers to the improvement of legal regulation. Well, what's the situation? You and I have adopted a bill on regulatory activity, and so mechanically in the Law on Local Self-Government were written, so to speak, some, there are a number of articles. And so it turns out that after we passed this law, we got to the committee, well, literally hundreds of letters, where we get hundreds of letters, so we've regulated that the Rules are now needed by the Council, well, it's become a regulatory act. So to keep quiet for a long time, we made a decision on the committee, and a number of our national deputies proposed this law to the committee. The aim of the bill is to improve the legal enforcement of local self-government bodies, to remove duplication of laws, to try to return and maintain under the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine the status of a comprehensive, legal regulator of the basic principles of the construction and functioning of the local self-government system in Ukraine. This was done by removing from the Ukrainian Law "On Local Self-Government in Ukraine" most of the provisions introduced by the Ukrainian Law of July 1, 2010, which duplicate the current rules of the Ukrainian Law "On Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity". [[2088-6]] In general, changes are made to articles 9, 26, 27, 42, 43, 46, 47, 50, 54, 55 and 58 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. At the same time, it is suggested that only the generality of the amendment to article 59 of this Law be retained. I would also like to inform you that a positive opinion has been sent to the above-mentioned bill by the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Legal Policy, and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Enterprise concluded that it was against the adoption of the bill. After discussion, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. If possible, in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'd like to discuss the bill. Darda, faction of the Party of Regions, please. He's refusing to speak. Catherine. Just a minute. Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! In general, what's positive is that this law regulates, everything is in line with the Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity. However, we would like to pay more attention to the activities of the village councils in order not to limit their ability to regulate farming activities on earth. Today, when I spoke, I touched on one topic and now I want to highlight it. Today, there is a reserve of land. They want to be leased by a tenant who is the only one in the village in question, and they need to be auctioned to give him the land. Several tenants are to participate in the auction, and they are not physically, legally available. Neither the council nor the administration have the right to deal with the matter promptly. And they sow quickly, and the year passes; the earth is desolate. Or if they are sown, the prosecutor calls and asks the host for what right. Secondly, no land tax is taken from this, because it's illegal, no one pays rent. The same is true of unexploded pies. This land in Ukraine is about a million hectares [a million ha]. If things were to go smoothly, and the local renters would pay rent and land payments, we would get more than a billion in local budgets. And because of these corkscrews, it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u181	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u182	I think this question deserves the attention of the relevant committee as well as the Cabinet of Ministers. And in this budget, we're going to anticipate that kind of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u183	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, microphone. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u184	Thank you very much. Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, this is one of the few bills that can unite the hall, if sufficient, to press the required number of votes, because there are few people in the room. But what I want to say is that local self-government has suffered so much, and this decline in local self-government is already taking place, after district councils, especially in Kiev, and when people have no place to go, they only turn to a city council that is not coping with the number of Chinese people who need help. Local self - government does not receive the necessary amounts of subsidies to pay for teachers and health - care workers. So today, this bill at least somehow allows this local self-government to work more humanly. Because when this Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity was adopted, and its standards were directly implemented in the Law on Local Self-Government, that led to what.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u185	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u186	Thank you. Local authorities could no longer even call for the first session. So in this case, I'm asking the room to take seriously those local self-government bodies that, on the spot, once again stand for the rights of our citizens. And I propose to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u187	Yes, dear colleagues, no one insists on the factions that did not act? No, it's not. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[on improving legal regulation]] Registration number 8309. [[13:32:26]] For 279 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies are being submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration by the draft Act amending certain legislative acts in connection with the optimization of the functions of the central executive body in the sphere of ecology and natural resources. [[concerning the granting of documents of a permissive nature]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Igor Mikolaiovich Prasolov. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga. In view of your request, I am voting on a motion to consider the issue of an accelerated procedure. [[13:33:17]] For 210 Decision taken. Igor Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u188	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Draft Law 8617 sets out the legal and institutional principles for the operation of the permit system in the field of economic activity and establishes the procedure for the activities of the authorization authorities to issue permits. The purpose of the bill is to bring certain environmental legislation into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Business Authorisation System. With regard to the optimization of the functions of the central executive body in the field of environment and natural resources. The bill aims to ensure that the functions of the central executive body in the field of environment and natural resources are carried out in connection with the adoption of Presidential Decree No. 452 of 13 April 2011 on the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill would improve the procedures for issuing permits in the environmental field. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes a number of comments that can be taken into account in the preparation of the second reading bill and proposes that the draft law be adopted as a basis for adoption on first reading. Therefore, distinguished colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u189	Thank you, sit down, please. Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, chairman of the committee
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u190	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the first reading introduces a draft Law amending certain legislative acts in connection with the optimization of the functions of the central executive body in the sphere of ecology and natural resources. The draft Law is aimed at bringing legislation into the environmental field in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System in the Field of Economic Activity and in relation to the optimization of the functions of the central executive body in the sphere of ecology and natural resources. The changes relate to the Water, Earth, Forest Codes of Ukraine, the Laws of Ukraine on Protection of Air, Waste, and Environmental Expertise. As has already been said, the scientific and expert office supports this bill in the first reading, but at the same time it makes a number of important observations that we think can be taken into account in the second reading. The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources supports the bill, the committee at its meeting decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted on the basis of the first reading. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u191	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues who insist on discussing this bill, please write it down. Yes. Sergey Glazunov, please, then Yuri Litwin. Sergey Glazunov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u192	As far as Bill 8617 is concerned. The bill lays down the legal and organizational principles for the functioning of the permit system in the field of economic activity and establishes the order of activity of the authorized authorities. In accordance with the current legislation of part one of the first article 4 of this Act, it is solely by law that regulates the relations relating to the detention of a document of a permissive nature: the need to obtain documents of a permissive nature and their kind; the authorized authority to issue a document of a permissive nature; the payment or free issuance of a document of a permissive nature; the issuance or issuance of a written report of a refusal to issue a document of a permissive nature; the complete list of grounds for refusal, conversion, issuance of duplicates, revocation of documents of a permissive nature; the duration of the document or the unlimited duration of such a document. The purpose of this law is to introduce certain legislation in the environmental field in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities in relation to the optimization of the functions of the central executive body in the sphere of ecology and natural resources. The adoption of the bill will help improve the order of the issuance of documents of a permissive nature in the environmental field. The faction of the Party of the Regions will vote in favour of the bill and suggest that it be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u193	Yuri Litwin, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u194	I'd like you to pass it on to Shershun Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u195	Mikola Sherschun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u196	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear head! Dear colleagues! I want to support the position of the committee of profile, the Committee of Ecology of which I am a member, and to speak in support of this bill. Maybe I'll repeat it a little bit, but I'm going to say that, to some extent, the project is procedural, technical, mainly aimed at harmonizing the rules of current legislation, but at the same time it's quite necessary, because because the rules of certain laws and codes and the Ukrainian Law, especially on the free system in the field of economic activity, create confusion in the treatment and implementation of existing legislation. The need for such adjustments is caused by the change in the functions of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources in the course of the reform process, which has not yet been reflected in the relevant legislation. So, as we can see, the bill solves pretty pressing issues. And as my colleague Seminog has already reported, a number of comments have been made to the bill, but they are not so important and will be removed when the project is being processed for second reading. So, dear colleagues, please support Bill 8617 in your first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on this proposal, namely the adoption of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts in relation to the optimization of the functions of the central executive authority in the sphere of ecology and natural resources for the granting of documents of a permissive nature. [[Registration number 8617]] Please vote. [[13:40:26]] For 283 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to consider the bill of auctions. At the same time, there is a letter from the author of the bill, calling off his draft law in connection with the need to redraft it. So I'm voting on a motion to withdraw from the draft Law on auctions. Please vote. [[13:41:13]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens. [[Registration number 7244]] The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kolovaluk Valerius Ilchi. And the co-rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Mikolaiovich. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. The author also supports this idea. And I'm putting her to a vote. [[13:42:00]] For 209 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u198	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Last year, a new edition approved the Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Inspections. And there's been a change to a number of other legal acts, including the Civil Code of Ukraine. According to the new law, among other registration rights, the right to rent a building or other capital buildings is also subject to the right to rent a building or to separate parts of it if a lease is to be entered into for a period of at least three years. This law establishes that the main part of its provisions shall enter into force from the time of its publication, including the requirements for State registration of rights arising from fixed property leases. The changes to the Civil Code of Ukraine, which impose such a duty only for those rights that have arisen on the basis of three - year leases, have not entered into force until January 1st of the following year. Since the law was published on March 16, 2010, the rights arising from all real estate leases made in that period until January 1, of the following year are subject to State registration regardless of their duration. As of January 1, the following year, only those rights arising under real estate leases that have been entered into for a period of three years are subject to registration. Such a situation is not logical but complicates and thus does not make it easy for a transitional period to regulate the state’s registration of immovable property rights. It is for the purpose of settling the transitional period in the area of the registration of the right to immovable property and their burdens, my bill, that the bill proposes to establish that, during a transitional period, the mandatory State registration of the right to immovable property arising from the lease agreements of buildings or other capital buildings and parts is subject to registration. The bill also proposes to clarify some other aspects of the Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions. Please support this bill and approve it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u199	Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, this bill was considered at the meeting of our Economic Policy Committee on 17 May this year. And the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt it as a basis. The bill has comments from the Chief Executive and the Cabinet of Ministers. They relate to the second part of the bill, which refers to ownership and management of land and real estate on it. In view of the fact that both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Chief Expert Office and our committee are recommending the adoption of the proposal as a basis and until the second reading, I propose to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u201	Yes, thank you, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion if necessary. If we don't, we'll vote. Yes, there is no desire to discuss the matter, so it is understandable to all. Once again, I remind you of the committee's conclusion: to accept the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also gave a positive conclusion on this bill. Yes, dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of draft Law 7244, amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens. [[13:46:24]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to announce a draft regulation on the change in the order in which time is calculated in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8330]] It's suggested that we address this issue, here's the author and the committee, with a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:46:59]] For 213 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Volodymyrovich Nadosha. Coroner is the deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Stepan Antonovich Davymuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u202	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, is added to your attention by draft Decree 8330 on the organization of the change in time in Ukraine. This proposal includes leaving the second time zone in Ukraine. From the time of the second time zone with the addition of one hour. This will give us an opportunity in this case to look at this summer time that we have now, and not to go into winter time. Leave this time for everything. The actions of our nation. There is such an offer. If there are any questions, I am ready to answer them. Okay. Then I propose and there's, I know, a proposal from a committee of profile who's offering to accept it as a whole. That's why I'm asking you to vote. Thank you. The faction supports. There's a lot of support in the region. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u203	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Stepan Antonovich, what does the committee think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u204	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Science and Education at the previous meeting discussed the draft decree. And based on the priority of human health, as stated in the Committee’s decision, he supported the decision and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and as a whole with the amendment introduced in April 2012. But I would like to point out that there was a discussion at the committee meeting, which, in fact, once again stressed that the question of timing is a multifaceted problem and contains international, medical and economic aspects that require comprehensive study and analysis by experts and relevant experts. Today we have no comprehensive and balanced approach to solving this problem, but priority should be given in this regard. As you know, in the past year, Russia has given priority to the medical aspect and, on the basis of human health priorities, has turned down the double counting of time over the year. I want to point out that the project was similar to our colleague Koleschenka, who had been examined in various central organs of the Cabinet of Ministers and the conclusions there were somewhat different. I would like to point out the conclusion of our Ministry of Health. According to studies on the impact of the change in time management on human health in our country and abroad, the shift of time by 1 hour in summer does not significantly affect health and well - being, on the contrary, the benefits of an extra hour of light are far outweighed by the negative effects of temporary discomforts associated with adaptation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u205	Please continue. What's the committee's decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u206	Can I say another phrase? And there was a general decision by the State Parliament to a project that summed it up. And it said, "So the order of calculation of time in Ukraine is consistent with the international practice of calculating time, it helps to harmonize the entire range of international, economic, cultural and other relationships. Therefore, the proposal to refuse use of summer time in Ukraine cannot be accepted." So the problem is very serious, it's not easy. And I'm on my own, because in our committee, most of us have made the right decisions, but I'd like to take it more seriously and still take it further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u207	Thank you. Please sign up with your respectable colleagues. Names of the national MPs, please. Gennady Samofalov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u208	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I think we need to move away from politics in this matter and look at the substance of the law. The problem is that today the medical community is involved in this debate, and they unanimously claim that the transition to a new age has a very strong impact on human health and is violating human bioritism. And while we have lost one and a half million people in peacetime today in the last two years, 2009-2010, I think this is a very serious argument to support and adopt this law on first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u209	Gennady Bully, please, the Reform Group for the Future, give you your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u210	Thank you. May I have a word with Vitalia Semenovich Kurilo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u211	Vladimir Kurilo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, Vitaly Kurilo, MP's Reform for the Future. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we were in line with the recommendations of the European Economic Commission of the United Nations in the mid-1990s, when we moved to this time of summer. And these recommendations were aimed at harmonising the order of calculation of time throughout Europe. To date, all countries in Europe, except Iceland, are moving into summertime. We just want to stay in summer time and give up these transitions. This is a very serious economic loss, one should not forget, and it also has some disagreements, both economic and political and cultural. For example, one such moment. At 9: 45 p.m., they will watch soccer in Donetsk, not at 9: 45 p.m., but at 10: 45 p.m. And not just in Donetsk, but in all the cities. And that's what transport is supposed to do. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 1996 the President's decree was to start working day in different parts of the country at different times: in eastern Ukraine at seven o'clock in the morning, in central Ukraine at eight o'clock in the morning and in western Ukraine at nine o'clock in the morning. This would be in line with medical standards, and this would be in line with those standards so that one can use light time as best possible. So in my opinion, we just have to go back to this Order and follow it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u213	Please complete your opinion. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u214	Going back to the 1996 Decree would be in line with the normal functions of human activity. So I propose to abstain from this determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u215	Thank you. Andrey Pavlovski, Faction "BUT is the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u216	Mr. Andrey Pavlovsky, "The House of Julius Timoshenko - Fatherland", please give the floor to the deputy to Victor Terrena.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u217	Victor Terrence, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u218	Thank you. Well, I don't know how for whom, maybe for the Party of Regions or for, let's say, the faction of the People's Party that will obviously support this is not the authoritative word of the Head of the Supreme Council, but for me it's the authority. And when I learned from the media yesterday, with a reference to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, that 200 million dollars was lost as a result of such a translation, you know, it made me personally think about what to do and who to do it to. It's about how it affects the state of the body, it's about the right institutions, let's say, the Academy of Medical Sciences, other experts, etc. But when the Party of Regions is already in charge of determining how this is going to affect the human body, it doesn't climb, you know, at any gate. What is more, all European countries are spending time. We have a very detailed lecture on what we are going to be missing from Europe for at least three hours with all the corresponding consequences. The fact is that the People’s Health Party is completely not interested in the economy that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was talking about is of no interest to them. They're interested in one thing -- they're more like Moscow. This is more like Moscow, not just in time, but in principles that today’s Russia is governed by. Well, let's say that there are prisons for the opposition, Hodorkowski is sitting there in prison, so that our opposition in prison to torture Julia Timoshenko is tortured by Lucenko. For when it comes to the plains in Moscow, it is above all equal to that time, the medieval time, in which, sadly, Moscow lives to this day. In general, all of this seems very pitiful and worthless. And that reminds me, you know, please remember Gogol, when the guards came to Catherine, they fell on their knees, and Catherine says to them, "Get up," and they say, "We're not getting up, Mother" is "Get up at the end of your knees" is "We can't get up." So these are today’s present - day, today’s regions, as they have fallen to their knees, so will they.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u219	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u220	Jaroslav Kenzier, Party for Ukraine! Today, there have been many references to these brief statements, especially to the acceptance of this decision on the economic gain and health problems of citizens that we will have if we continue to live in the time regime that we have lived in for many years. I think the first, so to speak, is the main motivation for what came out of this decision, the draft of the decree, which is just a simple ape from Russia. This is if Russia were to take time, so to speak, after the time zone of Vladivostok, I'm convinced that there would be wisdom here from the Party of Regions to propose the introduction of such a time zone in Ukraine. I don't see, you know, the logical position of the Party of Regions, when it seems that both the President and the Prime Minister, representing this political force, declare their orientation towards Europe, and his family, somehow, can't get away from the Kremlin's actions, from Moscow's. And to the extent that the Medical Academy of Sciences, its president, expressed these arguments that it would harm the health of Ukrainians, there was no such analysis, and there was no evidence. And yet we are closer geographically to the time zones that Europe has defined. And I don't think we can make that decision today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u221	Honorable colleagues, discussing the issue, have no problems, concluded with respect to who signed up, and the faction has the right to speak. Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u222	Thank you. Well, first of all, I want to tell you, there's nothing to stick to this decision and to the poverty that we're going to consider, the bill, it has nothing to do with politics. When we moved on to winter and summer, only the economic aspect was taken into account. You remember the power outage, and this was the aspect of the summer and winter shifts. So you don't have to trick people. Next. You don't have to hide from people, because people really tell us that it's really hard to experience especially children going through summer and winter time, secondly. And thirdly, well, the committee voted almost unanimously, even from a minority, in favour of the ruling. And the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support, from a medical point of view, the biological aspect. And you don't have to stick where you need to, or need not, politics, but you have to step out of the demands that we face, among other things, the same people as you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-20-m0.u223	Yeah, who else didn't come out of the faction? They're all here. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt this bill as a whole. It's obvious to put another point here: "This decision takes effect from the day it was published," because it's not clear when this document goes into effect. So I'm going to put to the vote a proposal for a committee on acceptance as a basis and as a whole a bill. Just a clarification. Victor Terrence said 200. That's 300 million for electricity. That's what I meant when I said it. I'm voting on the proposal on the basis of the draft decree on the change in the order in which time is calculated in Ukraine. 8330 as a basis and as a whole as a determination. [[14:02:06]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We need to make a decision on the withdrawal. It's me. Let's do the factions. It's about removing the draft law so it doesn't hang. Region Party – 189, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 10, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 14, "The People's Party – 20, non-factional – 8. I am voting on the motion to withdraw from the draft Law on the order of calculation of time in Ukraine, given that we have already complied with the relevant regulation. [[Registration number 4338]] Please vote. [[14:03:01]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
