ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning. Please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[10:04:40]] There are 334 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues! Allow me, on your behalf, to welcome together the nouns, Alexia Petrovich Kunchenk and Vladimir Dmitrovic Lemzo, born December 23, but in different years. Dear colleagues! Let me inform you about the results of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 22, 2011. Yesterday you and I discussed 50 issues of the agenda. As a result of their consideration, 35 laws and 28 regulations were passed, 6 bills were adopted on the basis of which 3 bills were returned to the committee for further elaboration and the next second reading. Three bills and one draft decree have been rejected, as a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, one law has been adopted in a new version after the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 29 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, an hour of questions to the Government is held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. Dear National Deputies! The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarov, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are present at the Year of Questions to the Government. Please welcome the government. Honourable national MPs, representatives of the MPs and groups made a proposal: during the "hour of questioning to the government" to hear the information of the Minister of Finance and Minister of Interior of Ukraine. Deputy factions of the Party of the Regions, "The Block of the Yulia Timoshenko – "The Father of Ukraine", the Communist Party of Ukraine, the People's Party and the parliamentary group "For the Future Reforms", based on part six of article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, were informed in advance in writing by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the questions to be asked during the "hour of questions to the Government". Honourable National MPs, answering questions from MPs and factions today will be Ukraine's Minister of Finance Feder Alexiyovich Jaroshenko and Ukraine's Minister of Interior Vitaly Yuriovich Zakharchenko. Feder Alexiyovich, please. We agreed that 15 minutes on a written question, 15 minutes on a question from the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u3	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I would like to start by saying that, given that part of the questions came to the adoption of the Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 and the problems highlighted between the first reading and the second reading of the document, I will answer with respect to the already approved bill. The MP's Party of the Regions, the question is, "What changes in social security took place after the first reading of the State Budget 2012 project?" In total, the social expenditure of the consolidated 2012 budget will increase by 31.3 billion and will total 271 billion dollars. Education costs are 92.7 for health - 54.5 for spiritual development - 14.2. A corresponding increase of 17-25, 25 percent. The expenditure of the consolidated budget in 2012 on social protection and welfare will amount to more than 110 billion dollars. For the first time, guaranteed minimum payments have been made for the disabled in percentage to the minimum of living for those who have lost their jobs. Every time you change the cost of living to a minimum for people who have lost their jobs, this will increase in this way: the average annual increase in such payments will be 9.8 percent. Next question. "The second-reading budget has increased the volume of transfers of the Pension Fund to Ukraine. To what will these costs be directed?" Yes, indeed, the volume of transfers to the State Budget Pension Fund for 2012 has been reviewed, primarily in connection with the review of macro indicators, and hence the need to pay off the deficit of the Pension Fund. Transfers will also go to government-extended pensions, including increased pensions for black people. However, the government will be able to increase the volume of transfers from the State budget to the Pension Fund by 19.2 percent. Thus, in the 2012 State Budget, the total amount of allocations to be channelled from the State Budget to the Pension Fund, increased by 9.3 billion dollars compared to the transfers to the Pension Fund adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading. And it's going to be 57.5 billion dollars. Under these conditions, pensions in 2012 will be implemented in accordance with the rules of law in force, in good time and in full. Next question. "Will the government budget deficit be reviewed in the drafting of the State Budget Act 2012" for second reading?" The government deficit will be saved at 2.5 percent of GDP. This is in line with the goals set out in the 2010-2014 economic reform programme of President Viktor Fedorović Janukovic of Ukraine. The government budget deficit, which was set up by the Ukrainian State Budget for 2012, amounts to 25.1 dollars, or 1.7 percent of GDP. Next question. "What are the costs for defence and security in 2012? How do we solve the issue of increasing the military's financial security in 2012?" The defence and security expenditures provided for in the 2012 State Budget are estimated at a total of 46.3 billion, exceeding the 2011 expenditure of 4.4 billion dollars. It has also increased against 2011 the expenditure of the General Fund on the provision of military personnel, members of the military and the primary warehouse by 1.1 billion dollars. And there's a total amount of funding of 18.8 billion dollars. Next question. "How is the government going to implement judicial reform in 2012 and make fundamental positive changes to the legal life of Ukrainian society?" The State budget for 2012 has increased the costs of maintaining judicial authorities by 1.1 billion dollars, or 31.3 percent, compared to 2011. Next question. "The policy of Ukraine to improve the demographic situation remains unchanged. Since the beginning of the 21st century, the population of Ukraine has begun to shrink rapidly. Founded in recent years, the principles of birth support have led us to see pregnant women all over the country. Are you providing support for them next year?" Yes, the position of both the President of Ukraine and the government in this direction is unchanged, and it aims to create the right conditions to increase the country's birth rate. To this end the following year has been increased by 2.2 times compared to the 2010 size of the child's birth aid. The maximum amount of child care assistance in reaching 3 years of age per year increases from 963 in 2011 to 1098 in 2012. The level of material support for single mothers will increase. The support of children from low - income families will also increase. All the funding for these types of aid is included in the general subsidy from the State Budget to the local budgets. The total amount of this subsidy will be 30.2 billion dollars, which corresponds fully to the projected cost of providing such social assistance. Next question. "We carried out administrative reform in 2011. Tell me, will the cost of maintaining government officials be significant next year?" Yes, as a result of the reform, the system of central executives is optimized, the number of central authorities is reduced from 107 to 74. The government’s decision reduces the number of government officials in the central apparatus of the central executive branch. The joint action taken by the President of Ukraine and the government in this direction allowed for the budget to save some 600 million dollars next year. Next question. "Did Ukraine's State Budget 2012 remain at an adequate level to fund measures to implement land reform for free land tenure?" Yes, the implementation of land reform is one of the government's priorities set by President Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic of Ukraine under the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme. Then, the Ukrainian State Budget for 2012 provides 333.5 billion dollars to implement land reform measures, 28 times more than in 2011, two thirds of which will be directed towards free land rights for citizens. That's 237 million dollars. The next question is, "What state support will be provided to protect and preserve the environment?" At both national and regional levels, financial support for conservation and environmental protection will be increased. The main source of this expenditure will be the costs of state regional funds for the protection and conservation of the environment in the 2012 State Budget, which will double and will only cover over 600 million dollars under the State budget. In addition, over 4.5 billion dollars will be spent on financing projects under the green investment scheme of the Kyoto Protocol. Also for the implementation of the 2012 National Environmental Target Programme for Radioactive Waste Management, 976 million dollars are available for the MNP. The next question is, "Last time, there have been protests by the country against the Chernobyl population, with demands for their social security. What steps are being taken and foreseen by the Ukrainian State Budget 2012 Act to relieve the social tension of the listed category of citizens? The State budget for 2012 includes all government commitments to increase the social protection of persons affected by the Chernobyl AES explosion, including a substantial increase in pensions in the category of citizens affected by the Chernobyl AES accident. In addition, 1.8 billion dollars are added, 30 percent more than the amount earmarked for that goal in the first reading. In addition, guaranteed minimum payments have been introduced for the disabled in the percentage of persons who have lost their jobs for the first time. Ukrainian Communist Party Dept. The first question is, "Well, given that on September 1st of this year, there are 2.7 million claims of war children in the courts of the first instance, 332 thousand claims of liquidators who suffered as a result of an accident at CAES on pension insurance. Why is a ignored proposal by the Communist faction to enforce judicial decisions on behalf of citizens to compensate for individual social benefits on the basis of a new budget programme for the execution of court decisions in favour of pensioners?" I very briefly wish to remind you, honourable people's deputies, that during the 20-year history of the formation of our independent state, of the experience of effective governance, the Supreme Council has not always made balanced decisions. Hence, legislation now has very unbalanced decisions that require much work, effort, and time. In order to provide social protection for the various categories of the population, a number of laws have been passed in violation of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the balance of the State budget. They predicted well - deserved benefits, but they did not form a source of funding. As a result, there was a huge gap between the need and the available financial resources for more than 24 million positives. At last, balanced measures are being taken by the government to address this problem. We've decided to step up payments to all the taxpayers, and this is provided for in the 2012 State Budget. Next question. "The state's debt on 1 January 2012 for compensation payments only to the heirs of the deceased investors is 456 million dollars, let alone the debt of the State to the living investors. Why did the ignored offer of the KPI faction to allocate one billion dollars to meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings?" Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to tell you that, legislatively, in 1997, an amount of $131.2 billion was recorded. Since then, the real number of investors and the actual amount of liabilities have not been determined. In order to resolve this, it is necessary to carry out an inventory of the State’s obligations, to create an electronic accounting system, and to enforce the mechanism of return. To this end, a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainians will be considered by the government in the near future. The bill, inter alia, provides for the opening of a state programme, for the gradual compensation of lost savings, and for the creation of government registers of investors and insured persons. Thus, the 20 - year problem of compensating for lost money savings will be solved. The People's Party. First question: "What is the state budget correction algorithm done when the terms of the Russian gas supply change and the price decrease for Ukraine? What budget articles will receive additional funding?" In the event of a drop in the price for Ukraine on imported gas, the government will calculate the adequately released financial resource and the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2012 which will calculate the considered proposals. In the order established by law, it will be submitted to you, honourable national deputies, for consideration for consideration and for consideration. Next question. "When does the minimum wage exceed the actual subsistence minimum? Will the cost of supporting the family be taken into account when calculating this indicator?" Ladies and gentlemen, there are so many discussions on this issue. So I would like to quote you in article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine. That the budget system of Ukraine is based on the principles of a fair and impartial distribution of social wealth between citizens and territorial communities. Only the State Budget Act defines any expenditure incurred by the State on the common needs, the size and purpose of the expenditure. The country wants to see the balance of Ukraine’s budget. So when we plan the State Budget, we come out of the real possibilities of the economy and to ensure its balance. Setting the minimum wage at the actual subsistence minimum, taking into account family maintenance costs, requires about 160 billion dollars. Well, it's obviously extremely large amounts, but the government is working on this problem. I think we're going to be making proposals for her solution. Next question. "Is the government ready to approve the new editions of the Education Act?" I mean, yes, the government is ready to draft a bill. That's why we're going to discuss it, work it, and you're going to make a decision, and we're going to do it. Next question. "In the current year, the investment index in Ukraine has dropped to a record low, which has minimized the number of investors."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u4	Complete the answer to that question, and we'll move on to our lips.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u5	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, I want to tell you that the redistribution of capital happens all the time. In addition, financial instability in our country, especially financial instability in the world, needs to be taken into account. Capital needs stability, predictability of state action, economic interest. It is in this direction that our government is systematically working all the time in power. We came when the government budget deficit was 18.5 billion to 180 billion. I presented to you yesterday, and today I was stressing that the government budget deficit in the general sector today is quite different, 1.7 percent of GDP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the minister. Names of the national MPs, please. Gregory Smythuch, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u7	Dear Fedor Alexiovich. Gregory Smythuch, Party of the Regions. Please tell me that the current year has seen good progress in the development of our nation's infrastructure projects, including those related to Euro-1012. The pace of road construction is consistent with what we need in road construction. Is this trend on the next road in the construction of highways? And if possible, how much money is budgeted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, the government is working hard on the tasks that the President has set for improving infrastructure projects, especially the road of state importance, where the task of 2,000 roads per year is to build. This year the number of roads will be built. The following year, they also set clear targets for government decisions. There's a project design document, and now there's work to be done. The amount of such work will amount to more than 20 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u9	Andrey Pavlovski, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u10	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland". Question to Mr. Azarov. Mikola Janović, why did the authorities actually break the deal with the Chernobyls, the Afghans, when they promised not to pass a sad law 9127 that limited social benefits and benefits to 16 categories of citizens? Look, in the budget in the Final Situations, there are actually these rules of this Law 9127, which stop the actual operation of 11 social laws on the social protection of Chernobyl, Afghans, military pensioners, veterans, children of war, disabled people. It's unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court has on several occasions ruled that the Budget Act cannot abolish social laws, and the government is doing so again. Why are you violating the arrangements you have made?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Government had adopted a regulation that had significantly increased payments to Chernobyl, persons with disabilities, liquidators and had done so in accordance with agreement with Chernobyl organizations. Therefore, no agreement has been broken or violated by the Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u13	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u14	Dear Fedor Alexiovich! When we analyze the draft budget for the next year, we see a very ambitious inflation rate of 7.9. Fedor Alexiyovich, you're working on the agro-industrial complex not the first year, and you know very well that the following year is expected to be too non-productive, especially the main food culture: wheat. This is already clear, wheat is like energy for industry, it's the basis for the following, other foods: milk, meat, eggs, processing. Prices will certainly go up, Fedor Alexiyovich, to spring-field jobs that will double. You didn't listen to the Department of Agrarian Politics experts, nothing planned. The volume of huge spring-field jobs, twice as high as their price, we don't see it in the budget. It is not enough that the development budget next year is 3.7 billion per APC. This is three times less than it was in 2008, for the government of Timoshenko, who we love very, very much in this room very much. Fedor Alexiyovich, I'm afraid the people can't cope with this price increase, and 7.9 inflation can be, unfortunately, overcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u15	I thank you so much for that question. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, you've witnessed the fact that no one in this year believed that the government would deal with the National Bank with the inflation planned for 8.9. It's July. In June, there was already a forecast of 13 percent inflation per year. But thanks to the measures taken by the Prime Minister, the head of the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, all central executives, the government has taken anti-crisis measures from the point of view of inflation policy. We have a fairly balanced rate of inflation today, that is, we have new tools, we have a new position, we have a vision of how to support an agri-industrial complex. This year. For the next year, we plan to support the agri-industrial complex through a variety of actions of 38 billion dollars. Don't forget that we have the only industry that hasn't paid income taxes for many years, is agriculture. The value added tax also remains at the disposal of the operators, and so on. I can give you a lot of examples. So yes, Ivan Grigorovich, there are threats, I agree with you absolutely, but we know how to deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, "Afterfaction."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u17	I have a question for Prime Minister Azarov. Mr. Prime Minister, yesterday you adopted the 2012 budget, where in manual mode you were granted the right to pay benefits to black people, Afghans, other defenseless categories of citizens. Today you say you have money. Tomorrow you'll say there's no money, and you won't pay people's pensions in violation of the law, contrary to the Constitution. That's why I'm asking you, as Prime Minister, to give up a pension of 20,000 dollars. I demand that you withdraw immediately from the State Hall, where hundreds of millions of dollars are kept in the budget next year. I'm asking you to fly an economy-class airliner, not state-owned planes at the expense of the state. I'm asking you to give up 10 cars that drive you everywhere. Drive public transport, ride electric vehicles, and take routes, as millions of Ukrainian citizens do. I'm asking you to give up your salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u18	Mikolo Janovich, please have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u19	It is very difficult for this demagogy to determine what is the essence of the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u20	Please, Shishkina, the "BOUT" faction is "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Goodyak Eugen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u22	Eugene Good, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u23	I have a question for the Minister of Health. Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, official prosecutor-general of Ukraine Viktor Pavlovich Pshonka, stated yesterday that the video camera initiative, held by Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, was initiated by the first deputy of Ukraine’s Chief State Medic. Please tell me, for what purpose did the First Deputy Chief State Medic want to see the video camera? Please tell me, what's the point? Anyway, I apologize to my colleagues to film a man's cut and then show it to his relatives. An explanation, please, from a moral point of view, from the doctor’s point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. I want to say that through the prison system, we sent our specialist doctors there, and plus they asked for a health specialist to examine the conditions of Yulia Vladimirovna's detention. During the examination, the doctor said that images could be taken to fix the conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u25	Thank you. Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u26	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine! Mikola Janović, I have a question for you. You probably know the whole sensational story of that adventurer, Slusarchuk Andrey, on whose conscience is 10 murders and a mass of mutilated people. As it were, this adventurer was assisted by a member of your team - Dmitri Tobacco, he signed his license, he legalized it as a famous neurosurgeon, and so on. I mean, on the conscience of the Tobacco, and then the Cabinet of Ministers. Mikola Janovich, I want you to hear this. Will you release to this Slusarchuk dealer? The other one. Or the minister, the ministry has opened a criminal case against the Smoker for these.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u27	Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u28	I think the Attorney General's Office, if there's enough reason to bring a criminal case, will set him on fire. As for the answer, I can give the floor to Tobacco, and he will answer you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u29	Anatoly Matvienko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u30	"Ukrainian Platform", "Cobor", Anatoly Matvienko. Mikola Janovich! I have my first question for you. You know what the problem with tuberculosis is with diabetes. This problem, tuberculosis, diabetes, it's actually growing, like a snow coma, I've repeatedly proposed a third budget to solve the problem of Dolos, which is a unique sanatorium complex of state property. Unfortunately, this money is not available, you were still in the Supreme Council, you remember the subject, you supported it. I wanted to ask, do we have any hope of preparing this treatment complex? And I have a second question for you, Feder Alexiyovich. There are loans in Soviet times. I'd like to ask, do you have an account of how many loans we have? That's the first one. And the second. Population contributions, you've touched on them, what will be the sum of these contributions this year and why you don't pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u31	Complete the question, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u32	Why do you not owe both bonds and deposits as sovereign debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u33	Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u34	Anatoly Sergeyevich, I immediately order Onishchenko, Minister of Health. Alexander Vladimirović, please take a look at this question and report to me next week on this sanatorium that we need to do what measures we can take. And then we'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u35	Orest Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u36	Dear Feder Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u37	I'm sorry, Feder Alexiyovich, there was a question for you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. I've already answered that question. I want to remind you that the savings that were fixed in 1997 amount to 132 billion dollars. But unfortunately, during this time, the work was done naturally, and now the government is working, I told you, on a bill that will fully address this problem. You and I will work with him in the Supreme Council and make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u39	Orest Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u40	Honorable Feder Alexiyovich, a resident of Ternopolska, wonders whether the acquisition of school buses at the expense of the State Budget will take place in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u41	Yes, indeed, it will happen, this program has been in operation for many years. And in 2012, we have 5 times as much money as in 2011, and it's going to be 352 million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u42	Tishenko, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u43	I give the word to Prokopchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u44	Yuri Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u45	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland. I have a complex question for both the Prime Minister, you and the Minister of Health. You know, in the background of all those claims that something's going up, it's going up, I don't know where it's going to go, because it's going out, it's going down. With what the previous government has done, for example, for medicine: both equipment and the same cars that save. Julius Timoshenko did all she could. And medical facilities were built. Today, we are faced with the fact that the national MPs have already given up all their benefits, preferences, and there is one question. See what the situation is today: 500 people in Sarnas go on unpaid vacations, and the wards are closed. What's happening in one, the last hope of all Ukrainian children, mothers and parents is in Okhmatdit?Oh, my God! Now it's declared that 200 million dollars have been allocated for the construction of the shells. That's my question. Will Ohmatdit be built at the end of the day in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u46	To whom is this question? Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u47	Name at least one hospital that was built in 2008-2009. At least one. During 2010 and 1011, 16 new European-class treatment facilities were introduced. So let's stop dealing with lies and look at reality. Now, about Ohmadet. For 2008-2009, the thumb was not hit in Ohmade. Finger-toe! And you still have a conscience to contradict us. For 2010-2011, two modern-day units have been surrendered to Ohmade, this is the body of infectious diseases, right, Alexander Vladimirovich? And the Emsa Corps, what's his name? Cardiosurgery. Two new troops in Ohmade. It's now set, and we've practically gone to zero, a new bone marrow transplant. So keep your conscience before the people of Ukraine, do not lie!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u48	Thank you, sit down, please. I'm inviting you. Dear colleagues, it's not, you asked questions. Please! Now you're going to ask questions and you're going to say, please, there's going to be a chance right now, I beg you! Dear colleagues, please calm down. And I invite you to the Chamber of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Vitaly Yuriovich Zakharchenk. The written question will be answered first, and then, dear colleagues, you will be able to ask questions directly. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Thank you to the National Deputies for the opportunity to answer the current questions. In all, 13 written questions came to the Ministry of Internal Affairs from the MPs' factions, "The Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherland" and the Party of the Regions. I'll start with the answer to the question that came from the Faction "BOUT"- "Paternity." As they relate to one subject, they will be answered, focusing on certain aspects that have been covered by this faction at the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council on December 19, 2011. First question. "Mr. Minister, even in the superficial view of the event in Donetsk, Kharkiv and Kiev, under the walls of the City Court of Appeal, there is a question: Is there an active system under your jurisdiction to study deeply the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of Ukraine that guarantees the rights and freedoms of citizens and defines legislative guarantees for the activities of representatives of the Ukrainian people, which are the national deputies of Ukraine? Is the special composition of internal affairs bodies required to act only within the limits defined by ministerial instructions and orders of managers who are only able to work by formulae: "what do you want, chief?" And "the law--how's the breath?" Second question. "Please tell me, what legislative regulations, which guidelines are given to internal affairs officials, both managers and their subordinates, when they ignore the demands of Ukrainian national deputies, to present themselves, not to mention the presentation of service certificates?" Question three. "As high-level leader, you may know that the word "militia" is translated "military," and at first it was called armed groups of citizens who spoke to ensure social tranquillity. That is its meaning as the basis of the modern name of the institutions of the interior of the post-Radians countries and as used in the Ukrainian Police Act. Unfortunately, our police today are only perceived as punishment. Are you going to turn internal affairs from using gendarme functions to protect social interests? If so, will there be a principle of evaluation of the actions of the leaders and their regional authorities, particularly Donetska, Kiev, Harkov, who violated the rights of citizens to peaceful meetings?" I want to point out right away that I personally stand in the constant positions of what the main task of the police was, is and will be the observance of human rights and freedoms. She should feel protected and know that the police will always come to help. This is my principle position, which I'm going to introduce into the work of internal affairs. The right of Ukrainian citizens to meet peacefully, unarmedly, and to hold assemblies, rallies, raids, and demonstrations is an integral right. Government authorities or local self - government authorities have been notified of such measures in advance. Restrictions on the exercise of this right may be established only by the court, in accordance with the law and only in the interests of national security and public order. In order to prevent disturbances or crimes. To protect the health of the population or to protect the rights and freedoms of others. This standard is enshrined in article 39 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In accordance with article 2 of the Ukrainian Police Act, police are tasked with ensuring the personal security of citizens, protecting their rights and freedoms, legitimate interests and preventing and preventing violations, protecting and ensuring public order, etc. I stress that peace actions should take place in strict responsibility for the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, as well as in accordance with judicial decisions. The law enforcement authorities are obliged to respond in principle to any wrongdoing committed by citizens, regardless of political or other beliefs. The law is one for all. Those who commit illegal acts bear the responsibility provided for in Ukraine’s legislation. Regrettably, of the total number of more than 160,000 in the State’s territory in 2011, 31 were in breach of the organization’s order. As an example, I would like to take a look at what happened under the walls of the Supreme Council on November 3, this year. Please show the story. [[VideoLast View]] During the fighting, members of the internal military forces who carried out public order duties suffered bodily harm — Captain Bagdoon, senior lieutenant Mikhaylov. [[closed cranial-brain injury]] [[face]] The question is, Can such actions be called peaceful, and how should the police react to them? I'm sure he's determined to be strictly responsible for the law. According to the facts of these events, Kiev’s Pecher Paradise has been criminalized on the basis of the evidence of crime provided for in article 296 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. For unlawful acts during this action and other actions, their organizers and individual participants have been drawn to administrative responsibility under article 185 prima. 1 KUPAP Ukraine "Contravention of the organization of meetings, rallying, street raids". In addition, 20 criminal cases were committed. In particular, according to article 293 of the Criminal Code, article 296 of the Criminal Code, article 296 of the Criminal Code, article 6 of the Criminal Code, article 293 of the Criminal Code, article 2 of the Criminal Code, article 279 of the Criminal Code, and the commission of violence against law enforcement officials, a criminal case has been violated under article 345 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Peace actions should not be accompanied by fights, property damage, roadblocks, or other illegal activities that harm citizens or damage public or public interests. Of course, such actions by shareholders will receive a legal assessment of the organs of the pretrial investigation, the prosecutor’s office, and the court. With regard to the police, there were a number of large - scale events in Donetsk. In accordance with their functions, our employees ensured public order at the Head of the Pension Fund in the Donetsk Region, where, contrary to the District Administrative Court’s decision to prohibit mass action, the Chernobyl operation and the tent town were opened. Since the execution of the court’s decision was not part of our jurisdiction, the police did not act in any way on the part of the shareholders, the more powerful. As for the events on November 27th. About 19 hours, 15 minutes, officials from the Ministry of State from the state of emergency in the Donetsk region dismantled and removed one of the tents. It belonged to this department and was installed on November 15th to heat up the shareholders. I will point out that the police were not involved in the dismantling of the tent; they were merely performing their duties in order to protect public order, which was not violated in this case. Individuals’ statements about the demolition of a tent town do not match the reality. I pay your attention, distinguished national deputies, that the tent town existed before the end of the campaign and was dismantled by participants on the evening of December 11. Therefore, there is no reason to talk about the police committing any illegal act, and even more so to accuse them of being involved in the death of one of the shareholders, a citizen of Konoplova. I believe that using human tragedy in political interests is immoral and unacceptable. A legal assessment of the police was given to the prosecution, which, according to the commission of the President of Ukraine, carried out a verification of the circumstances of the death of Konoplov. The violations of the law by our employees and the causal link between their actions and the death of the said citizen have not been established. So I'm not going to comment on these events, I'm just going to point out that the police acted decisively only when the situation required it. It is our employees who have been active in order for the ambulance to get Konoplov to the hospital as soon as possible, and this is convincingly evidenced by the video that I also invite you all to look at. [[VideoLast View]] That a living corridor of police personnel has been created to ensure the unhindered passage of ambulances. At the same time, a number of questions to the organizers of this action, as well as political and public figures, who actively supported it and used it as a ghost to claim to be themselves. Who invited a patient who had suffered a heart attack and remained in the autumn cold for nearly 24 hours. Did you need constant supervision of the doctors? Why did no one persuade this person to give up any further part of the campaign after his feelings deteriorated dramatically the day before the tragedy? Who gave a command to the stockholders to block the ambulance, preventing the patient from being taken to the hospital at the right time? And who then has the moral right to accuse the police of the tragedy that has taken place? According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, approved by the government. By order of the President of Ukraine, I, as a member of the government, am authorized to ensure the implementation of state policy in the area of the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, the fight against crime, the protection of public order. The directors of the regional units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs have the appropriate powers of law enforcement. Using these powers, I appeal to party leaders, public associations, and politicians. You, along with the direct organizers, are primarily responsible for life, health, and the fate of the people you put out in protest. I urge everyone to realize this and to think first of all about the security of people, not about their political ambitions and prospects. Now I want to focus your attention on another aspect. Today, some political forces are trying to politicize the Chernobyl problem. There is no need for provocative attempts to create a confrontation between the PMA disaster controllers and the rule of law authorities. So I officially declare that the Ministry of Internal Affairs will not allow this. We've always had a deep respect for the Chernobyls, and there can't be any other way. I remind you that 33,000 representatives participated in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u50	Microphone! Complete the answer. There'll be a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u51	They provided the most responsible and dangerous directions of work. We are proud of these heroic people, and we think that what they've done is, without exaggeration, a feat. And today, police officers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u52	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Now let's move on to the questions directly from the people's deputies to the members of the government. Please sign up for the questions. Please sign up. Vasilyev, faction of the Party of Regions, please. Yeah, no Vasiliev? There is. Please! Vasilyev is here. Come and say hello to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u53	Isn't that Vasilyev? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, turn off the microphone, if it isn't Vasiliev. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, Vasilyev is! I'm saying, yes, please let him ask the question. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u54	Mr. Minister, the people of Ternopolska are interested in sociological research. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, give it to Mutsu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u55	Please! Vasilyev transferred the right to raise the question to Mutz. What do you want?Oh, my God! Come here. Come and meet me. Please, Oreste Mutz, please pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u56	Well, don't cause any trouble, well, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, sociological research suggests that the situation on the highways is of great concern to citizens. What measures are the IMF planning to take in order to increase road safety? Please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. In fact, the situation on the highways, it causes concern for the Ministry of Internal Affairs' leadership, and I personally have a minister's position. With my arrival, I analyzed the situation, and daily I see that we have between ten and twenty people dying on the road. This is a very large number, despite the fact that we have a positive dynamic in this direction because of the preventive activities of the militia. We're preparing a concept to improve this issue. And I would like support from the deputies for the introduction of existing legislation and for the adoption of new legislation in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u59	Sergey Podgorny, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u60	Please give the floor to Deputy Philenck Volodymyr Pilipovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u61	Vladimir Filenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u62	Vladimir Philenko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Minister, when your predecessor Mogilov was thrown into the Crimea, everyone thought that a new face would finally appear in the militia. Judging from your answers, the face is new, but as in the anecdotes, it's the same type of side, but it's the same. You're still guarding Kalashnikov's rally, you're running protest campaigns, and you're running the Ministry, and you're killing a man. You're inadequately blocking the appeals court and turning Timoshenko's defenders into extremist climbers who are forced to crawl because of the bans. And the second question. Every day, 400 people guard Januković’s way to work and 400 from work. It's in your department. Doesn't it seem fair to you that the money you have hidden in your trunks for the President's passage to hang on him, for the President's Administration, and you don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u63	Please, your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. Let's start in order, what you asked. What is involved in the protection of public order. And that's the question that came up, and I couldn't answer it: how should the police say who they are, and show a certificate. Yeah, yeah. I'd like to see another video, it was prepared for me. Yes. How a police officer should show you a certificate. It's very interesting to see. I think everyone will be interested.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, we'll rule this out from time to time. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u66	Please add one minute. Dear colleagues! Give me a minute. I said, add one minute while the video was displayed. Please answer your question. Vitaly Yuriovich, are you all right? John Kirilenko is referring the right to question Yuri Odarchenk. Yuri Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u67	Vitaly Yuriovich! I think as a minister you know that there is a Constitution of Ukraine, an article in it that clearly gives citizens of Ukraine the right to peaceful meetings. And no of your instructions, there, the employee's instructions can't affect that. You have now confirmed in your statement that during the death of Konoplova you, as minister, were fully aware of the health of these people. You knew that they were sick, that they were starving, and, therefore, when the tent was demolished, the police stood still, watched as they virtually killed a man there, and did not react. You today, as the minister, clearly confirmed what you knew about these people's health, you understood what would happen when this tent was dropped on their heads when there was a storm, and your employees were not responding. Are you investigating non-interference, non-reaction?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u68	Complete your question, please, Yuri, and complete the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u69	Are you currently investigating the non-compliance of the Police Act with your employees and giving it to them?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u70	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u71	Thank you. Can I answer that? Thank you for asking. Please don't twist my words, what I'm saying. The state of health of the person has become known to the police after the investigation and investigation of the case have just begun. And the check she was doing. I didn't bother you! What do you think you're doing, yelling at me? Let's respect each other. You invited me to give you the answers, so listen, I'm giving you the answers. Once again, this person’s health became known after an appropriate test was started. Please don't twist my words. As far as peaceful meetings are concerned. I'd like to address all the deputies here today. The Law on Peace Meetings was adopted in the first reading. Now we, and I myself, as Minister of Internal Affairs, have made appropriate additions to this law. And I'd like you to consider this law in the Supreme Council, and accept that there, by law, are clear rights, authorizations for all participants in peaceful meetings, including militias, organizers and directly participants in these actions. This law, in my view, would allow us no longer to ask each other such questions as are echoing today. I have to tell you from my side, and you, from your point of view, politically, have to ask me these questions. So I'd like to ask you to support me. In addition, I would like to inform you that the first time I met journalists at the beginning of my ministry work, we had a lot of questions about what.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u72	Complete the answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u73	Well, please. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u74	Vitali Juryovich, in one sentence, please complete your reply to the journalists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u75	I'll give you a letter. I'll give you a written answer. It's about journalists. We've just prepared an order, and I've called all the internal staff, and I've got things to do to help journalists objectively explain what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u77	And thanks to them, at least video clips appeared on the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u78	Dmitry Schlemko, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u79	I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Azarov. Mr. Prime Minister, the authorities are blowing their cheeks on social policy next year. We know that there is a litmus paper that defines social policy in the state, and in Ukraine there is a particular proportion of the poor population, for the first time, I stress, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, that its share of the poor population in Ukraine will increase. I can confirm that the Economic and Social Development Programme in 2010 is 24.1, and is planned in 2012 is 26.2 percent. I have a question. First. Is this the social policy of today's government? And the second. And how much will it reduce or increase the wealth of the oligarchs who finance the 2012 Party of Regions?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u80	Is that a question to the Prime Minister? Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u81	As usual, you bring, let's put it mildly, unreliable data. That's your principle: you never tell people the truth. And if you were to say it, all the characteristics, for example, of the number of pensioners who receive less than 1,000 bracelets per month, have been significantly reduced. The number of pensioners receiving more than 1,000 pensions has increased. And of course, those data from the State statistics that will be released in 2011, we have data in just 11 months, they say exactly the opposite of what you're saying here. Moreover, for the first time in 20 years, we had an increase in life expectancy in 2011, and this is a very good figure, which increased by 1.4 years the life expectancy of Ukrainian citizens. You don't know that, of course, and I'm telling you and all the Ukrainian people. Unfortunately, a difficult year, 2011 is a very difficult year. But once again, we have never lied and will never lie to our people, unlike you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u82	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u83	Dear Vitaly Juryevich, first of all, I would like to thank the majority of Parliament in your face for their heroic service to protect the peace, tranquillity and health of our citizens. But I'm more concerned about another question. It is unfortunate that during peaceful demonstrations there are provocations, adventurers, passersby and extremists who inflict injuries and injuries on young boys, our sons in police pursuits. Let's maybe think together, maybe we can step up the crew somehow. We will be prepared to vote in favour of protecting our sons from lawlessness by adventurers. On the other hand, it may be possible to think and study the experiences of a democratic country in America. There the police find a language, a good language and understandable for such passers-bys when they're running wild on the streets of New York and Washington. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u84	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, for that question. In fact, the equipment involved, the equipment, the equipment, the means of transportation, the computerization. In order to create a transparent police activity, so that we have as few myths as possible about police work as possible, so that citizens can have access to workers, see how they work, we have to invest more money. We realize that the economic situation and the economic situation are difficult. That is why we do not insist on full funding. At the same time, if the Supreme Council, if the Cabinet of Ministers can provide additional funds, we will be very grateful. We've got some underbuilt buildings today, about 32 buildings that need to be upgraded to make sure that the police get a place to live. We've got over 21,000 of them on the family account, and they're on the housing bill, and they don't have housing, and they don't have that kind of stuff. There are many questions about transportation that is conscripting detainees. This is also a huge question, and it must also be reorganized. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u85	Gennady Samofalov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u86	Please give the floor to my colleague Koleznichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u87	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u88	Dear Vitaly Juryevich, we have just watched a video where we saw bandits, real bandits who did more than just commit a criminal offence -- they publicly attacked militia personnel by covering up their parliamentary mandates. I have a proposal for you to agree with the Attorney General. Please introduce a presentation to Parliament. And we will clearly agree here to criminalize bandits who violate laws and are covered by parliamentary mandates. And in this regard, given where they are going to be, I have a question. A recent visit to Ukraine was made by a delegation of the European Committee against Torture. Members of the delegation met with the IMF management and expressed their wish to ensure human rights in temporary detention. What assessment was made by European experts, and what steps are being taken to improve the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u89	Thank you for asking. Indeed, from November 29 to December 6, this year was the European Committee against Torture. The delegation also visited the Ministry of Internal Affairs, met with the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We met, and personally I met with representatives and the head of the delegation. She, the delegation, visited five isolation centres in Kiev, Kharkiv, Kiev. Attention was drawn to the need for unconditional security of rights, freedoms of citizens, and detainees. In general, we have not been asked any big questions. At the same time, the delegates and the examiners asked us not to advertise their results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u90	Yes, we added a minute. Please, Oleg Lazko. We've got a minute to roll.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u91	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Secretary, you're saying you don't know who brought the deceased Connopolov to the tent in Donetsk. I'll tell you: the government, the government, has taken away the people's pensions, depriving them of their right to a decent existence. In Donetsk, in Kharkiv, in Kiev, millions of people are taking power throughout the country. And you don't have enough money for the canes, for the vests, for the punching of those people, and for the hitchhikers that go out to defend their constitutional rights. And to Mr. Azarov, who didn't understand my previous question when I told him to give up his pension, give up his government hand, and turn down his government jets. I'll ask you a different question, Mr. Azarov. Do you know that millions of Ukrainian families get up in the morning and go to bed in the evening and because of your policy, they don't know where to make a piece of bread, where to take a penny, whether to pay for a pill, or to teach a child. And you have an apartment or your son in Austria, or you don't, and for what money you bought that property.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u92	Well, as the minister says. Well, please, Prime Minister, please, Mikola Janovich. Vitaly Yuriovich, please sit down. Well, we asked you a question. Please, Mikola Janovich, give Oleg the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u93	I will give the citizens of Ukraine an answer, and this will be the demagogue. I don't want to talk to him at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the hour of questions to the government is over. I thank the cabinet members and the Prime Minister for taking part in the "hour of questions to the government." Ladies and gentlemen, please remain seated, we will continue our work. Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the BUT faction, "The Fatherland", the faction "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense" requires a recess to be announced for consultations and statements. Vladimir Yavorowski has the floor to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u95	Dear voters, on behalf of the united opposition, I address you first. Yesterday, when the budget, the pseudo-budget, the budget, was adopted, there was a small, or small, but shullery. And I am very sorry that the head of the Ukrainian Parliament has done so. What are you talking about? In the Supreme Council for a year and a half and a half, I call it 23.09.2009, there's my bill on narrowing the MP's benefits, a very painful bill. I've asked the Conciliation Council several times -- well, put this bill in, it doesn't take away all the benefits, but it narrows them down completely to normal. Because we have feudal benefits, it's true, and people resent justice. That's why yesterday there was a vote that said that the MP's benefits were shrinking, but for a year or so. Why was it not necessary to pass this bill and adopt it as a law, a normal law, to discuss it? Because we really want our voters to know that we didn't vote for it because Vladimir Mikhajlovich put it in one package, explosives, I would call it, in one packet. For a budget that is being robbed today and that will bring Ukraine down to its own lampenized bottom in Europe, we were unable to vote. We agreed that we would not support this bill. Another provocative question was raised. That's why I really want the voters, on behalf of the opposition, to let the voters know that we're for a real reduction in the MP's benefits. Because of this, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in the next session, we will be able to get you to draft this bill and get it to be adopted. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I'd like to inform you about the fierce opponents of the MP's benefits. You need a trial. I need a solution. And I understand very well that, after this process, no decision will be made after these loud cries. So yesterday, I suggested -- the Supreme Council decided to stop all these benefits for a year. The wiser ones will come - let them make their decisions. I'm not the only one who hasn't done it yet, and I'm telling you honestly that MPs who have a pension who have formed, and now they're starting to fight the benefits, and they've got high pensions that they haven't offered to do what people do. Because they've formed pensions, and they're starting to fight for the people. And you say thank you for doing that, so people can stop spitting at the Supreme Council in this regard, and you come out, you make statements. Fear God! You've got everything you can grab, and now you're getting moralized. [[Applause]] [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm bringing in your well-known announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and in accordance with the statement made, I report the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Zabzaluk Roman Omelanovic from the "BUT"-Department. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 30 minutes on Friday to make the parliamentary inquiries. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Olega Lalashka to the President of Ukraine for not allowing the removal of maternity house No. 2 of Cherkasa. I am voting in favour of Oleg Láska's request to the President of Ukraine to prevent the liquidation of maternity house No. 2 of Cherkasa. [[11:22:44]] For-25 The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 19, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, "The People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 2. Valery Bondik to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the State Executive Service of Ukraine on the grave violation of the constitutional guarantees of the Ukrainian National Deputy and the presumptuous failure to execute decisions by officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Alexander Cnervolenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the Kiev City Administration, the Secretary of the Kiev City Council for the election of members of the Supreme Council from the faction of the Party of the Regions instead of the absent colleagues using their cards in the seats of local council deputies. Eugena Zarkov to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on dissatisfaction with the content of the replies to parliamentary appeals and requests, as well as the appeal of Ukrainian citizens to oversee the legality of the authorities and officials of various levels regarding the appeal of Odessa residents to the illegality of the outskirts of the coastal zone in the city of Odessa, the inhabitants of Kharkiv regarding the dismantling of the monument by Anton Makarenko, without regard to the opinion of the public, the protection of the rights of a multi-child mother, the violation of labour and constitutional rights of a citizen of Novik, the protection of the rights of wives of miners and others, and the distortion of the organs of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Alexander Blackwolf to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the attempt to overthrow the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters by the head of this committee, Valérie Baranov. Viacheslav Koval and Alexander Cnervolenka to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the head of the Court of Appeal of Ukraine of Kiev, the head of the Administration of the President of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the restoration of the authorities of the State by parking lots from the people of Ukraine. Jury Karmazin to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the verification of cases of exceeding the official powers of officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kharkiv region, the abuse of power, the obstruction of the legitimate activities of public organizations, the illegal detention and restriction of the will, the murdering, the gross violation of the constitutional rights of delegates of the All-Ukrainian Public Organization's Union of Chernobyl, the resolution of the question of bringing the guilty to criminal responsibility. Valery Calchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding the programme "Supporting the Implementation of the National Environmental Policy Strategy of Ukraine". Boris Tarasyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of the collapse of a comprehensive programme to provide housing for military personnel, members of the military and chief of staff, customs officials and members of their families. Andrija Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent introduction by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the draft Law on the Denunciation of the Agreement on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus with a view to preventing tax evasion by oligarchs on a particularly large scale, increasing the income portion of the State budget and directing these additional revenues to raise the social standards of citizens. Valeria Bevenza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of effective and urgent measures to restore the work of the State Enterprise "Czechodnička alcohol plant" and to repay the debt from the wages of the labour group of the company. Basil Black to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the restructuring of the Crimea Research Station of the Institute of Gardening of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of receiving additional income from citizens who are charged for electricity consumption in the offices of the Chernigiv Blanergo Post Office. Vadim Grivkovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for preventing the construction of the Pecher Square in Kiev and the destruction of the historic centre of agricultural trade, contrary to the interests of the Chinese and the guests of the capital. Victoria Demionczuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the issue of the award of a subsidy from the State Budget to the local budget of the city of Kirovgrad to compensate for the costs for the transport of extended categories of citizens by Kiev. Citizens by city transport in 2011 with a total of 12 million dollars and a grant to the State budget of Ukraine for 2012 subsidies to the local budget of the city of Kyrovgrad to compensate for the cost of transporting the city's pension categories by city transport of 24.8 million dollars. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for providing official information on the position of the Ukrainian government in the international negotiations on the conditions for supplying Russian natural gas to Ukraine in 2012 and on the possibility of transferring the Ukrainian gas transport system to the management of the Russian company RAO Gazprom. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the criminal responsibility of the head of the State Forest Agency of Ukraine, as well as the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations that are part of the Government of the State, whose actions resulted from Ukraine's State Financial Inspectorate's planned audits of financial and economic activities for 2009-2010 and the completed reporting period of 2011 revealed a violation of a total of 742,9 million dollars to the State of Ukraine, resulting in a particularly large-scale loss. Katerina Vashuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on delays in the allocation of the Government budget for Ukraine's development of the main sectors of the agro-industrial complex and, above all, the dairy sector. Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the groundless restriction of the right of teaching workers living in rural areas to benefit from the Ukrainian Education Act and the removal from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Act of 28 May 2008 "Some issues of social protection of individual categories of citizens" paragraph 14, which unlawfully restricts the possibility of receiving such benefits. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine for the protection of the legitimate rights of children of war — residents of the city of Dolinsk Kyrovograd region, who, as a result of the unlawful actions of the employees of the General Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Kirovograd region, are not paid the statutory pension allowance which threatens their normal viability. Viacheslav Koval to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to improve the mechanism for the provision of disabled persons with light cars recognized as humanitarian aid, in the return of cars by relatives and representatives of disabled persons after the death of disabled persons. Catherine Vaschuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to transfer the land of the state-owned enterprise Elita, referred to the administration of the Academy of Agrarian Sciences of Ukraine, to a community of towns such as Rokini Lutsky District of Volinsk Region. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the rightfulness of payment of the work of the public authorities for the preparation and registration of land leases. Eugene Kzarykov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, the head of the Odessa District State Administration on illegal actions against the Odessa Film Studios and the protection of the interests of the creative industry and its employees, as well as the rights of the National Association of Cinematographers of Ukraine. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the promotion of the arrival of young scientists in professional scientific activities. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on State quality control and safety of children's goods distributed in Ukraine. Olega Lalashka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing maternity home No.2 of Cherkasa to be eliminated. Sergei Gordijenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, on permanent misconduct at the end of the financial year of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine on the blocking of local budgets and state institutions. Sergey Shevchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-payment of salaries to officials of the budgetary institutions in the Lokachin region of Volin region. Irina Gorina and Sergia Gusarov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the application of measures for the provision of subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine to local budgets for the repayment of debts in different tariffs for the provision of water and water services to the population, including for the financial support of Harkovkomkomkovodvod to pay the debt for electricity consumed before Kharkovoblanergo, as well as for the improvement of the procedure for the preparation of settlement fees for residential services and their acceptance. Groups of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Kyiv District Public Administration on the need for a comprehensive examination of the facts set out in the address of Irina Demenyuk, who is involved in the development of agricultural production and the creation of jobs in rural areas, to remove obstacles to local government economic activity. [[Bondica, Prutnik and others. Total 5 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Veterinary and Phytosanitary Service of Ukraine, the Kiev City State Administration on the need to implement a set of measures for humane treatment of homeless animals and to prevent the emergence of episodes by addressing urgent problems in the eradication and prevention of leprosy in Kiev, as well as the creation of community shelters and compensation for the cost of keeping animals in the context of preparations for the Euro 2012 football championship. [[Plotnikova, Prutnika and others]] Victor Sinchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the State Science Institute of the Ukrainian Sugar Institute. Group of National Deputies to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine for Overcoming Corruption in Disability Groups. [[Ribakov, Soroczynska, Kirilenko, Constantinov]] Sergija Tereshuka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for the insufficient funding of the programme "Compensation for families with children and the cost of nutrition for children affected by the Chernobyl disaster" in the Zvenigrad region of the Cherkas region. Sergei Gordienka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Director-General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine, on the requirements of the inhabitants of the city of Kremenchuk Poltava region regarding the need to restore electricity traffic on the Kremenchuk-Pavlish-Kremenchuk route and to ensure citizens' rights to a service journey. Vladimir Leschchenka, head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on the need to apply antitrust measures to the Ukrainian State Railway Administration in connection with the reduction of the flight of a number of passenger trains, the provision of simple suburban trains with high comfort, the creation of tension among passengers during the acquisition of tickets. Valery Baranov to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the purpose of preserving the Berdian District Department of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in Zaporozhye district as a unit of his own. Viacheslava Kirilenka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the requirement to take appropriate measures to ensure the security and protection of Ukrainian citizens’ rights, who were abducted from the Minsk Railway Station on December 19 of this year, were beaten, removed documents and means of communication, thrown into the forest in a foreign lane with Ukraine, and on the need to establish and punish the perpetrators of the crime and the proper response of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the protection of citizens' rights against the harmful effects of noise and recreation. Vladimir Yavorowski to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Commission for the Restructuring of the State Tax Inspectorate in Shevchenkov district of Kiev on the verification of the availability and use of charitable contributions from a large number of Ukrainian citizens for the construction of the Taras Church in Caneva, collected by the All-Ukrainian Society of Education. Lily Grigorovich to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine Eugene Blazhivski, for the protection of the rights of citizens who have suffered as a result of the fraudulent actions of officials of the private company VIP AUTOS. Valerija Baranov, head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, on a situation involving enterprises with state-owned property in the city of Berdjansk Zaporijsk. Alexander Shepeleva to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the urgent use of measures to prevent the spread of measles in Ukraine. Alexander Shepeleva to the minister of Ukraine’s extraordinary situations regarding the use of industrial waste disposal measures in the Gorlov chemical plant. Alexia Fedun to the Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Prosecutor of Kiev City, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the urgent completion of the renovation of thermal plants on the streets of Fuchik, Topolavi and Stadium in Kiev. Paul Silent to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the construction of the Memorial of Totalitarian Victims in the territory of the National Historical Memorial Reserve of the Bikownian Graves. Sergey Grynevetsky to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the Registration of the International Civil Society Organization CENTEX. Mikoli Tomenka to the head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the legality of the use of budget funds for public media coverage to the capital of the political advertising campaign of Kiev City authorities led by Alexander Popov. Alexander Dove to the head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service regarding the existence of a conversion center in Lviv, whose illegal activities cause material damage to the state. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the legality of the restructuring of the Cherkas maternity house No. 2 by joining him in the Cherkas maternity house No. 1. [[Heratchenka, Tomenka, Jereshka]] Leonidas Grač to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on gross violations of legislation by the Prosecutor's Office of the Dnipropetrov Region and the Dnipropetrov Regional Authority of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding Valentina Szerbata. Romana Zvarič and Jury Karmazin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the use of urgent measures to respond to the inaction of the internal affairs authorities and the Prosecutor's Office of Kiev on the gross violation of the rights and legitimate interests of residents of the apartment building along the Grigornka Street in Kiev, illegal, the use of forged documents, the seizure by a group of persons of OSBB "Agreed-96", the unlawful release of employees of the union, the theft and the acquisition of housing and the improper maintenance of housing, the involvement of the perpetrators in the responsibility. Vitalia Barwinenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal conduct of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Odessa District in criminal proceedings. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the falsification of criminal cases by the Public Prosecutor of the Lviv region. Vladimir Matthew to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine on corruption in the local authorities and self-government of the Kharkiv region, illegal detention by the deputy of the Kharkiv District Council of Abusim Alexander Juryovich, members and officials of the Hope Society transferred to the grain storage of the Agrarian Fund and other depositors, improper investigation by the prosecutor's authorities, internal affairs, the Security Service of Ukraine and the tax militia of the Kharkiv area of fraud, the theft of grain, the fictitious enterprise, the legalization of proceeds, obtained by criminal bankruptcy, and the evasion of taxes by the Kharkiv area of fraud, the looting of grain, the legalization of proceeds, the criminal bankruptcy and the tax evasion of taxes of other cooperative activities of the State. [[washing]] Vasil Gureev to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the failure of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to take action to bring criminal responsibility, Alexy Skeeperov, on the basis of the fact that the Society's money has been stolen, with limited liability for the Bay Cossacks Club. Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the protection of the rights of residents of Chernivci on the street of Turkish No. 30 from the Society's unlawful actions with limited responsibility of Grant Plus. Andrija Paruba to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of ignoring allegations of a violation of a criminal case on the basis of the separatist appeals made by Ukrainian Deputy of the People's Republic of Ukraine Yuri Balldriev and the need to comply with the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. Basil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of prosecutorial measures to protect the rights of teachers in the Ternopil area who are not paid a salary and are forced to leave unpaid. Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the constitutional right of citizens to health care and the use by the Attorney General of Ukraine of appropriate measures of prosecutorial response in order to prevent the closure of the treatment and preventive facility "Cherka maternity house No2". Vladimir Stretovic to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to ensure the legality and control of the road accident investigation process with the participation of a law enforcement officer. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on a unique affair that has been published in the media and is that impunity is already being acquired by thousands of hectares of land in Kiev by the well-founded students of the Kiev UZI. John Denkovitch to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate and objective investigation of the situation of the case involving the abuse of the office of officials of the Ukrzliznič company in the purchase of goods and materials at the state expense of the Corporation for Collective Repair Technology. Mikoli Shershun to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-compliance of Ketam and Kiev Asset Management Company with contractual obligations to the inhabitants of the city of Equine on the construction of a residential building. Igor Plahogo to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the inappropriate reaction of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to the request of the head of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the circumstances that have led to the situation surrounding the Indar Society, to provide information on criminal cases committed by facts and related officials. Orestes Muz to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Ternopil district government administration, prosecutor of the Ternopil district for the illegal removal of land under the construction of a waste-processing complex within the territory of the Ternopil district council of Strussiv. Sergey Chrapova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conduct of a prosecutorial review of the illegal alienation of property of the Ukrainian-Bulgarian Society with limited responsibility for Balkan-Dnipro. Alexander Kasinuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unbiased investigation of the death of a military soldier in the city of Sevastopol Eugen Heinus. Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Security Service of Ukraine for the conduct of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Security Service of Ukraine for the examination of illegal actions by the authorities of the State and the judiciary, together with officials of the Livela Child and other associated legal persons, which led to the failure to comply with the State Budget in 2010, almost 3 billion dollars, including the verification of the grounds for the appeal of the tax, customs and prosecutor's office. Gregory Omelchenka to the head of the Kyiv Court of Appeal for the use of appropriate measures to ensure an objective hearing of the appeal of the Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine and the appeal of Valentina Teleniko’s lawyer against the ruling of the Pecher District Court of Kiev on 14 December 2011 on the annulment of the criminal case against Leonid Kuchma and the ruling of the legal and judicial decision in this case. Sergey Tereshuka headed by the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine on the allocation of road reconstruction funds to the village of Pavlovka First Tallinn district of Cherka. Vadim Grivkovski, head of Kyiv City State Administration, Prosecutor of Kiev City, Chief of Department of Interior of Ukraine in Kiev, on the activities of the restaurant "Mafia" in Kiev at Lesi Ukraine Boulevard, 26 and the violation of the rights of residents of neighbouring residential homes to live and rest. Vassil Spak to the head of the Hmelnick district public administration for the examination of the complaint of the Slobido-Kulchieweck village head Kamyanec-Podil district of the Hmelnicki district of Marija Mitkević concerning the conduct of illegal actions in the election of the head. Valery Calchenka, head of the Kirovograd District Council, to ignore the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. Thus, the Honourable People’s Deputies have made 133 parliamentary inquiries. At the same time, honourable national MPs, a number of national deputies, have made appropriate written documents requiring them to be allowed to speak in connection with dissatisfaction with the answers to parliamentary requests. We have four minutes, we can hear another speech. I take turns taking those who were registered in the order of arrival. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. Is there a Grizzenko? None. So the next one goes to Mikola Tomenko. None. Next, Yuri Carmazin. None. Then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u97	On 7 November, at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, my parliamentary request to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for a violation of the criminal case against Prime Minister Mikli Azarov and officials of the Pension Fund of Ukraine was announced on the basis of the criminal offences provided for in articles 365 and 382 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the excess of power or official powers and the impeding the enforcement of judicial decisions. The actions of Prime Minister Azarov and the employees of the Pension Fund, which, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, had been ordered by the Prosecutor-General, contrary to judicial decisions, not to execute court decisions on the payment of due amounts to black people, children of war, other categories of citizens who had received court decisions on their due payments. Prime Minister Azarov issued an illegal protocol order No. 63, which prohibited the Pension Fund from paying adequate sums to Ukrainian citizens for the execution of court decisions. I have repeatedly appealed to Prime Minister Azarov to withdraw this protocol commission as not in conformity with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. both Azar, Tihypco, and other officials promised, swore, but did not. To date, people -- low-security citizens of Ukraine, Chernobyl, children of war and other categories -- who went to court for years, paid money for the services of lawyers to get court decisions, get those court decisions, get an appeal, and today these court decisions are not being implemented. In time, Ukrainian citizens who had been sentenced to their pensions received their dues, but then, on Azarov’s command, they stopped paying them the money. So I asked the Attorney General to file a criminal case against Azarov and put him in the same prison where Timoshenko sits in the same cell where Timoshenko sits. [[Timishenko's gonna let go, and that's what he's gonna plant.]] If they're telling us what a good camera is, it means Timoshenko is from the cell, and Azarova is from her cell. The Attorney General refused to do so because the Mafia is running the country: everyone is covering each other. You see, I asked Azarov, "Is there a house in Austria with his son? What money did he buy this house for?" What did Azarov say? That he won't answer me like a demagogue. Do millions of Ukrainian citizens who have nothing to eat have to answer or not? The kind of pension they don't pay, they don't pay. Therefore, the party radically demands that the Attorney General file a criminal case against Azarov for failure to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u98	Finish up. Dear colleagues, we can't go on any further, because we don't have time. We're on our way. [[B in m in s a l in]] What?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u99	Now. No, no, one minute. I'll see if I have one. What you have, I believe you, believe me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, that's how I got it, I haven't signed it yet. Dear colleagues, we'll put this motion to the vote again, because I haven't signed it yet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I don't, anyway. Let's do it this way, dear fellows. In accordance with the Rules, if a national MP is not satisfied with the answer to a parliamentary request and if he has made an appropriate draft decision, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may take a decision by making an appropriate decision to discuss a parliamentary request. That's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, one minute. Therefore, I am voting on a draft decision to hold a debate at the plenary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the reply of the Attorney-General of the Ukraine of Pshonka to a parliamentary request for a violation of the criminal case against Prime Minister Azarov and officials of the pension background of Ukraine on the basis of the offences provided for in articles 365 and 382 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the excess of power or official powers and the obstruction of enforcement. the enforcement of decisions. Registration number 9565. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:54:02]] For-23 The decision is not taken. There will be no discussion today. By factions, please: The Party of Regions – 1, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 17, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 3, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 0, non-fractional – 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u100	Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, may I have your attention? On November 17, 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian State Service Act. In preparation. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u102	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u103	Don't let them vote. During the drafting of the bill for signature in its text, there were some inconsistencies, disagreements between its positions and the resulting inconsistencies with other Ukrainian laws resulting from the consideration or rejection of individual proposals by Ukrainian national deputies during the second reading of the bill by Parliament. According to article 131 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee has processed the relevant clarifications, reconciled them with the legal authorities, and they have been submitted to your consideration. These documents have already been distributed to you in advance. That's why I'm putting to the vote the proposal to remove disagreements in the text of the Ukrainian Act on State Service. Please vote. [[11:55:52]] For 225 The decision is not taken. I'm asking the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who's in charge of getting back to the subject? [[11:56:25]] For 238. We're back. I'm betting on a motion to remove the disagreements in the text of the Ukrainian Act on State Service. Please vote. [[11:56:48]] For 240 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to adopt the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the calendar of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Is the report to be made on this subject? The committee was looking, it's all agreed. If you have to, please, the head of the committee is. Vote? The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the calendar plan for the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call for adoption as a decree is being put to the vote. [[Registration number 9627]] Please vote. He was handed out for a week, dear colleagues. [[11:57:44]] For 267 Decision taken. It's being announced. We need to consult, maybe. Dear colleagues, yes, perhaps this is how we should consult. We don't have a lot of questions, we could do this: we're going to look at these documents all the time, and we're going to go straight to the Difference. Is there no objection? You don't have to vote? No, it's not. The Ukrainian Maritime Ports Act, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 30.11.2011, is being announced for consideration. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. It's about canceling, what is there to discuss? Please vote. [[11:58:40]] For 232 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Miroshnichenko. The committee will report to the head of the Transport and Liaison Committee, Michael Mironenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u104	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Maritime Ports Act, adopted by the Supreme Council on 3 November 2011, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. [[Registration number 0881]] According to the Head of State, this law raises a number of observations, such as: “The seaport’s waterfront includes part of the water object within the limits that includes the water surface and the ground beneath it, i.e. the water- and land-use object.” According to the Water Code, only water objects can be used. The law provides for the introduction of a new law other than the Water Code, a water use: "use of seaports". This does not establish a legal mechanism for such water use. Next. The removal of seaports with coordinates of the port’s water supply does not comply with the requirements of the Earth Code. The land code links the removal of land with the setting of land boundaries in the area, the taking of an act on land and the corresponding land use regime, and so forth. In addition, the introduction of a standard for the establishment of a state border crossing point is granted to port administrations on lease terms. Such a rule would result in significant losses from Ukraine’s State budget. Today, service facilities are provided free of charge for the relevant departments. Furthermore, the proposed concept of privatizing port infrastructure within seaports is not balanced and can create.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u105	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u106	and can create certain risks of misuse and loss of port infrastructure. In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Maritime Ports Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u107	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Mikhailo Mironenko, head of the Committee on Transport and Communications
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u108	The distinguished colleagues, the presiding officer, considered the President's proposals carefully at their meeting and decided to accept the President's proposals and to recommend that the Supreme Council reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on discussing this matter? You don't? None. Then let's do it this way. I put to the vote the first sentence of the President of Ukraine: the rejection of the Ukrainian Maritime Ports Act. Please vote. [[12:02:32]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'm announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine Act, 9316, second reading. [[about optimisation of the composition]] Irina Bellous's reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy prepared for a second reading a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Monopoly Committee Act for short periods of time. The bill was introduced by the President of Ukraine, and its priority is the practical implementation of administrative reform, which aims, inter alia, at reducing the number and maintenance costs of the administrative apparatus. The committee came up with a proposal from two national deputies: Yuri Miroshnikka and Yuri Karmazin Of the 11 proposals, 8 are included, 3 is rejected. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council called for a bill without notice. The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on December 20, this year, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending the second reading and in general. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear National Deputies, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration does not have any comments on the draft draft legislation. Who insists on making adjustments? You don't? Then I put to the vote the committee's proposal on adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee Act. [[about optimisation of the composition]] Registration number 9316. Please vote. [[12:04:55]] For 265 The law is passed. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration of the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly is proposed. [[on complementing the list of categories of credits]] Second reading. The rapporteur is the head of the committee, Yuri Karakai, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u112	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, the prescribed bill goes to second reading, and his position is proposed to be released from the payment of payments by the National Reserve Agency of Ukraine and enterprises, institutions and organizations that are part of his administration, in matters that are decided on the basis of legislation on the State Reserve. There were three amendments to the bill, and the committee considered them at its meeting. 2 revisions rejected, one counted. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill on second reading and in general. If necessary, I am ready to report on these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, 2 amendments are out of the question. Is Bondarev insisting on his amendment? I can't see. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the rule of law concluded: "The bill is subject to rejection as being contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine." And I'm the first to put the committee's proposal to the vote. And I would also like to refer to the recommendations of the judiciary. A motion is put to the vote: the adoption in second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Assembly. [[on complementing the list of categories of credits]] [[Registration number 9393]] [[12:07:07]] For 263 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider the issue of ratification. This is a draft law on the adoption of amendments to the Agreement establishing the Black Sea Bank for Trade and Development. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[12:07:43]] For 232 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Vadim Kopilov. Who's gonna be the Coroner from the committee? Taras Cranville? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u114	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, is submitting to your consideration a draft law on the adoption of amendments to the Agreement establishing the Black Sea Bank for Trade and Development. The bill foresees the adoption of amendments to the Agreement establishing the Bank, which was made on 30 June 1994 in Tbilisi and ratified by the Law of Ukraine. [[of June 17, 1997]] Amendments to the said agreement were adopted in accordance with the resolution of the bank's government. [[of June 19, 2011 No.131]] The point of these rights is to move to the calculation of the euro. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u115	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee’s first deputy chairman, Taras Cnerwell, will report the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u116	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, a respected colleague of the Ukrainian national deputies, has just been briefed on the substance of this amendment. The amendment is very short: it enters into article 23, paragraph 2, of the Agreement an additional paragraph "m" with an appropriate deletion of other items, which sounds like the right to change the bank's accounting unit, to re-express the entire equity capital of the bank and to determine the amount and nominal value of the shares to which it is allocated, as may be appropriate. That's actually the whole point of amendment. As the deputy minister has just said, it is related to the fact that the very agreement on the creation of the bank was still an acceptance of the euro currency. Now it's going to be the main currency. And in order for it to be able to be recalculated, and so that the bank can directly form the capital, and so on, there is going to be a change to the deal. Accordingly, since the creation agreement itself has been ratified, the Final Positions foresee that any changes to the treaty must be similarly ratified, this is subject to ratification in the Ukrainian Parliament. The recalculation of each country’s contributions, including Ukraine, takes place on a one-time, one-time basis, at a computational rate for that period, i.e. there can be no situation here that someone at a more convenient period, someone in a less convenient period, will count their shares. So they don't change as a percentage. It's an absolutely technological question. The committee at its meeting unanimously supported this issue and asked you to ratify it. All interested parties share the same support. There's no need for any budget spending. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u117	Dear National Deputies! There's a Stanislaw Arjevetina's refinement or addition. Then Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u118	Indeed, we must support this ratification. That's a technical question. Although it was highly desirable for us to see a figure in this agreement, this exchange figure, when the shares would have special borrowings to exchange for the euro, would certainly want to see this exchange rate. And of course, I'd like to see a conversion rate that's fixed by future debt and borrowing. But the main thing is, I think our country has taken advantage of the opportunity to get resources for our economy. After all, 16 projects are now being prepared. The exemption is 215 million today. And I'd like to make sure that our side works more actively with this bank, takes advantage of the possibility, and the first one gets these already traded euro. Of course, ratification is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u119	Thank you. Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u120	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! I'm only going to pay attention to three moments. First moment. The need for ratification. It is necessary for the amendment to the Agreement establishing the Black Sea Bank for Trade and Development to take effect. That's what our colleagues were talking about. The second point is what you need to pay attention to. The implementation of the provisions of the Treaty establishing the Black Sea Bank for Reconstruction and Trade will contribute to the further proper use of the Bank's investment potential, to the development of the economy of the entire Black Sea region and Ukraine in particular. And this is especially important for the South-Bessarab part of the Odessa area, where there are several projects. And the district administration wants to make sure that they're also funded by these projects. And the third moment. This will help strengthen our position in organizations such as CZECH and PACES. A party of regions will support and please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I would like to vote on the proposal of the Committee on the Approval of the Law of Ukraine on the Adoption of Amendments to the Agreement establishing the Black Sea Bank for Trade and Development. [[Registration number 0241]] Please vote. [[12:13:38]] For 269 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the cost-effective appointments of the State]] [[Registration number 9635]] I would like to vote on the Committee's motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[12:14:10]] For 227 Decision taken. The reporter is Vadim Kopilov's first deputy minister. The correspondent is the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valérie Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u122	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You are being reviewed by the draft Act of Ukraine amending Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian State Budget 2011 Act, designed to ensure the effective use of the general budget allocations provided by the State Statistic Authority for 2011. The adoption of the draft law will ensure that the authorities of state statistics are charged with thermal energy and natural gas, household payments for participating in the examination of their living conditions. Such payments are proposed to be made on the basis of the redistribution of the general budget allocations of the State budget under budgetary programmes within the overall scope of the cost-benefits foreseen by the State. It's proposed to cut consumption costs by 310-20 of Statistical Observations and Censuses by 1 million 947.9 thousand dollars. According to the budget program 316-00 "Reforming State Statistics" – 728 thousand dollars. It's proposed to increase consumption costs under the budget programme 300-10-10 "Headship and governance in the field of statistics" by 2 million 800 dollars; development costs under the budget programme 300-10-30 "Reviewing the living conditions of households" by 675,000 dollars. A request for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u123	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valerius Baranov, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u124	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting on December 22 has considered the bill. The position of the bill is balanced with regard to the State Budget indicators. However, it should be noted that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 22 December a bill amending the State Budget 2011 Act, number 9564, which changes the state budget rate on expenditure. So they're going to need to clarify the total budget figures in the appendix to Bill 9635 in the "Everything" line according to the current drafting of the State Budget Act for this year, taking into account the changes adopted by the Supreme Council on December 22. The main scientific and expert office recommends that the law be adopted as a basis. As a result of the consideration of Bill 9635, the Committee on Budget Issues decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill should be adopted on the basis and in general, taking into account the proposals made in the letter to the Committee on Budgets to the Supreme Council. For the transcript, when the bill is adopted, the Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, should add to the bill the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications relating to the proposals of the budgetary committee approved by the Supreme Council to the bill in preparation for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the Committee's decision on budgetary matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, are there warnings? Sergey Gordijenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u126	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I don't have any reservations about the allocation of grief to the unhappy and poor Statemstadt, because I know it's an organization that doesn't have a lot of wealth, but I have a warning about the practice that's been in our state over the last few years, when the accounts of local budgets, government institutions and for the past two weeks are blocked. For two weeks, they can't afford the services they received, they can't pay the bills in schools, hospitals, and so forth. This is a shameful practice that all governments of the bourgeois are implementing, which is our own country. Whatever color they may be, this is a major blow to the authority. And when these unfortunate coins are released to the State Department, that's good, and we're going to vote. But there are strange miracles when in the last days billions of dollars are allocated for scraping, and when the accounts are blocked in disgrace. You can't let that happen. I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Head of the State Treasury. You're committing a budget crime, you're doing a budget vacchanal. It shouldn't be. You realize that it's done without any document, it's done on oral instructions and orders, and it's not a state anymore, it's already understood.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? None. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. I would ask you to support this proposal, or this document will make no sense. The draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 is put to the vote for adoption as a basis and as a whole. [[on the cost-effective appointments of the State]] [[Registration number 9635]] Please vote. [[12:20:23]] For 268. The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! Before we go to the "Variance," let me welcome you all and everyone, your families, your family and loved ones, and all the people in Ukraine with the New Year and the Christmas Christ. And wish to all of you, and to everyone personally, and to all of us, that all the problems that were in 2011 do not pass away in the following year, endurance, willpower and health. And on the other hand, if someone took offense to my emotional statements, my references, my replicas, I would ask with understanding to do so. I'm just concerned that we have a team and that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is at least at the minimum level of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Other decisions that we made yesterday, we couldn't, we couldn't, believe it, and we made, I think, right. Otherwise we would have only had conversations, there was no movement in that direction. I mean, including when we encourage people who are difficult, they need to be tolerated, and they also need to be demonstrated that there is understanding in the legislative body. Once again, dear fellows, thank you all for your work. With the New Year you and Christmas Christ! Now, if you'd like to sign up for the Miscellaneous. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u128	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, I want on behalf of the Party "For Ukraine!" draw attention to the situation in our country with its native language. As we know, article 10 of the Constitution has established that the only national language in Ukraine is the language of most of the nation’s title, the Ukrainian language. At the same time, attacks on the Ukrainian language continue, on the contrary, as they come to power today, they also intensify. I would like to remind you that at this plenary week, a bill was put to the vote on the introduction of the language of national minorities in kindergartens, according to their parents. You understand what language and national minority was spoken of in that law. It's about Russian. And I would like to remind our radio audiences and television viewers that there are gardens in Ukraine that teach 178 000 children. But just so you know, even though these gardens are confined to 80 national minorities, 90 percent of gardening is done in Russian alone. I would also like to draw your attention to judicial reform. It is known that a year ago, laws were introduced into the Code in another language of the judiciary called the regional language. In it, the law deals solely with the application of the second Russian next to the English language. Sadly, contrary to article 10 of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine signed such a law. And the worst part of it is that the Constitutional Court, which is supposed to protect the Constitution from attacks by the legislator, has sanctified this decision of the Supreme Council and has established that, rightfully, another language may also be used in the case-law next to the Ukrainian language. Since the authorities are unable to pass a new law on languages in Ukraine, they are bypassing the problem by other local laws. And finally, let me tell you something. When the experts of the Venice Commission of Law, the draft laws of our colleagues in the Party of Regions on the introduction of Russian as a second state language, they are amazed at how you in Parliament discuss laws that directly conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. Then I would like to conclude by saying, "Dear colleagues, the title of an article in Voice of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u129	Give us a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u130	The article in The Voice of Ukraine called “Let’s Be a Grand Gypsy Nation. ” Thus, the gypsies of the world, wherever they live, know and communicate in their own language. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u131	First of all, I'd like to invite you to Helen Bondarenko, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." In view of the fact that Yuri Hanusztak also gave the word of Oleni Fedorovni, she has six minutes’ notice, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians! Dear compatriots! Today, the European Community is expressing great sympathy, today is the burial of a hero of the Czech people, and all of Europe, who has led the Czech people to freedom, independence, has put them on the European path. The faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, expresses deep sympathy to the Czech people for the death of the outstanding son of Bohemia Vaclav Havel, who loved Ukraine immensely and who expressed a strong criticism of Ukrainian authority in connection with the political repressions in Ukraine. And now, dear Ukrainians, I would like to announce Julia Volodymyrna's application to all of us, to all of us Ukrainians, to all of the patriots. "Dear Ukrainian people! As I watched from behind the prison of the Lukyanovski SIZO for the horror, nonsense and absurdity of which my name was turned into a court case, I decided to give up any part of this disgraceful trial and to give up the appeal to the courts of the first and second institutions. Today, there is absolutely no judicial system and no justice as such in Ukraine to seek justice and truth in Ukrainian courts is a completely futile matter. The authorities, the Yanukovitch regime, have destroyed the judiciary. Instead of the people whose basic professional calling to seek truth and to execute a righteous and fair trial, the judges' robes had upside down and the executioners who would execute any command of power. There is no honor, no justice, no truth in the courts, only wickedness, no courtship, and no abuse of human beings. I believe that this will be the case as long as Janukovic is in power in the country and there is no point in waiting for the Ukrainian judges of justice. And what honest judgment can it be when, in the eyes of the world, no judge, no hiding or shameless, constantly lying, distorting facts, falsifying a case? When evidence of innocence has suddenly disappeared from the case, when the court does not want to hear witnesses from the defense, the evidence records the charges for its benefit. What search for the truth can be considered when you are suddenly caught in a trap and dragged by a train to the medical center to prove that you can walk? When some people in photo and film technology break into your cell, they shamelessly shoot you using your helplessness, and then they mount plasmas in your laps and soul booths in your laps. When you get a painkiller every two hours, you claim to be the most healthy person on the planet. When the court sits in a cell next to a 12-hour broiler, even though the text of the decision has made it ready in the morning. When, at last, you are arrested again in your cell behind bars, chained to your bed, on the grounds that I am free. How can you believe a court where you cannot even get into a case despite all your demands, protests, and statements? What kind of justice is it when the prosecution's arguments are referred to as "cables," in paws, on the houseclothes, photographed by a special clerk's paparazzi? No, it's not the 37th year, it's the second year of being in power that has already rejected the country beyond our era, the age of elementary humanity and order. This is the original order and cave age in its worst manifestations. In these circumstances, I see neither the purpose nor the need to continue to support the farce in the Ukrainian courts. I'm not looking for the truth because it's not there. If they want to, let them play with their perjury, demonstrating their immorality and deceit throughout the world. I believe that the European Court of Human Rights will assess the absurdity and crime that the Ukrainian authorities call a court. At the same time, I want to point out that despite all the torture, torture, torture, and torture, they have failed to break me and will never succeed. I'm continuing my fight, because even here, behind bars, I feel more free than all the Yanks combined have taken over the fences. I continue my fight for free, happy, democratic Ukraine! They may kill me, but they will never kill my proud country and my great people! The truth will still win! And the free Ukraine will soon be up in the world. But the dark age that goes on now will soon pass. And the sun will rise upon the earth. It will be soon, I'm sure, not April 31st, as it was written in one of the forged protocols of my case, but much earlier. Hold on! Believe it! Fight!" Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u133	I invite Eugene Kzarkov, who was given the word of colleague Marmazov, a faction of Communists. It will be followed by Vasile Derevljany, who was given the word Yuri Prokopchuk, the Faction of the Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u134	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Chairman! In the New Year's Eve, he was forced to speak on behalf of the collective of the Žitomir Tram Train and Trolleybus. You know, it's been in the hands of a practical and labor community for a year, and the second time in a year, public transportation stops in the city of Zitomire. Most importantly, the unprotected categories of citizens remain as unsecured, socially unprotected citizens. These are our pensioners, the disabled, the veterans of the Great Homeland War. The wages owed to enterprises for yesterday amounted to 7 million bracelets. And indeed, yesterday, when people came under the rule of slogans and villas, they asked for one: to feed their children. So the edge has crossed, the reasonable edge has crossed both the city and the district authorities, and the central authorities, when, in fact, the people of "living" money have not been able to see since July. And think about it, and just yesterday they said, "How can you feed your family for almost half a year?" Many have children who are underage. I mean, even questions sounded banal, as the representative of the Minister of Finance told me yesterday. He doesn't even know what it's like to be out of winter clothes, but people say there's nothing to wear in winter. What caused the surprise? When the Zitomir Regional Committee of the Company of Ukraine, the trade unions of this group, themselves the workers stopped the transport and, you know, for two days practically the city was paralyzed, no one left the administration or the mayor for two days. People were, of course, outraged by this behavior, and only the intervention of the people's deputies from our faction forced them to go down to the people, to communicate. And, you know, some of the people are probably starting to hear the slogans from the people today. When they said yesterday, "Our Prime Minister recommends taking a shovel, 6 cents, and getting food for themselves," they said that they were ready to take the villas and come to the Prime Minister, and ask more specifically, and where is the money of the labor community, which, in large accounts, we looked at, has 1200-1300 bracelets, and that in the story of wages of 3,000, and even these coins are not paid. Of course, against the backdrop of the budget that was adopted yesterday, I am sure that the anti-national forces, since exactly 16 billion in the budget is falling to pay salaries, will be very difficult to meet the promises that Yarosenko and Azarov made yesterday. However, I hope that it is precisely the steps taken by the midwives yesterday, when they left with pitchforks and shovels to rule, that allowed the first tranche to be listed by evening – 3.9 million bracelets. I assure you, Celibacy, I know that you are now watching that by the end of this week, if it happens, by Monday the authorities will still try to close those debts. But the only question here is that this issue has become systemic for Ukraine. Recently, transportation stopped in Gorlovka, and yesterday he stopped in Mariupola.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u135	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u136	I therefore call on the authorities to reflect, and so that they may at least celebrate Christmas and New Year, to close all debts to civilians and other categories of citizens who do not receive wages, and today in Ukraine 2.3 million are only officially registered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u137	I'd like to invite Vassil Wooden, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Nicholas Shershun, a faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u138	Basil Wooden, Fatherland Party. I received a call from Strussov village head and residents of the village of Dródba, the village of Varvarenzi, Strusów, the coast of Terebovlán district of Ternopil district for the area of the Strussov village council of the land for the construction of the garbage treatment complex. The appeal was signed by more than a thousand residents of the surrounding areas. Despite significant violations of basic environmental standards and the opposition of the community, the head of the ODA Hoptyan ordered the construction of a garbage treatment complex near the health camp and the boarding school for children with cardiovascular diseases. Such presumptuous actions by ODA Hoptian not only endanger the lives and health of the inhabitants of the surrounding areas, especially children, but also provoke the territorial community to act decisively. In fact, a similar situation took place in the nearby Podvolocchini district of Galuchni, where the entire community also protested the wrong actions of RDA Sum’s head and demanded that the transfer of the active career be cancelled. I pay attention to the leadership of the State that in the Ternopil region, they have already entered into the practice of acting on behalf of the heads of the ODA and the heads of the RDA on the administration of the lands of the community as if they were their own. The looting of land that had previously been taken outside the settlements by the heads of the ODA and the heads of the RDA and their families had become a personal asset. And the district attorney has repeatedly claimed that there are no violations in this dump. When the President of Ukraine today does not take action against those who are involved in the debasing of land in the area, it means that his strategic line of looting land and looting the inhabitants of the Ternopil region. To date, the head of ODA Hoptjanka, the district attorney, is not engaged in government debt on salary to teachers, doctors, and other budget workers in the Ternopil region, amounting to 21 million dollars. From this rostrum I appeal to Prime Minister Azarov in urgent order to pay this debt. My address is to be considered a reference to Prime Minister Azarov and the Attorney General. Welcome to the coming New Year and Christmas Christ! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u139	Please prepare an appropriate request, as spoke of by the People’s Deputy of Trees. I'd like to introduce you to Michael Sherschun, the faction of the People's Party. He will be followed by Stanislaw Argewittin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u140	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. A respected chairman, respected colleagues, is currently taking many steps to arrange the use of agricultural land. But not always in the cabinets of power can you predict all the problems and disagreements that may arise in this area. They are often, and very often, exposed only to practical activities. So now I want to bring to your knowledge and to the knowledge of the government what has been overlooked and which has later created some difficulties for the owners and tenants of agricultural land. The point of the problem is this: Since January 1, 2012, changes to article 55 of the Code on Administrative Offences, which we have provided for the imposition of fines for the use of agricultural land without approved projects, have been in force. Thus, in the second half of this year, landowners and landowners began to prepare the necessary documents extensively. However, there was a problem regarding the payment of services to public authorities for the registration of land leases. Well, I'll give you an example in the Plain area. But this is typical of all of our Ukraine. You have to pay 146 bracelets of "Equal Geocastre" for the formation of supplements to the contract, 55 bracelets of the Plain Regional Branch of the Centre of the State Land Cadastre for the creation of an exchange file. 60 dollars to the District Administration of the Statecomy for the exchange file check and 51 dollars to the same district office of the Statecomy, but already for the registration of the lease agreement. At the same time, all of the organizations listed above, except for the first, are national. I would like to point out that the funds paid for their services do not come to the state budget. Thus, landowners have a fair question about why they pay for services to public authorities and how they continue to use these funds. On the other hand, this is a very serious problem. Similar payments are converted into insurmountable material loads for entrepreneurs. Because some of them make thousands of such contracts. Just one example. Ukraine's PSP in the Plain region is scheduled to register 3,000 600 contracts. The total amount of their registration is 1 million 100,000 dollars. Where can you get that kind of money?Oh, my God! The company’s management has no idea. But without registration, Ukraine will not have the right to use the land. So in order not to block the work of Ukrainian agricultural enterprises, I appeal to the government, personally to the Prime Minister, to consider urgently the rightfulness of payments for land lease services and to find an opportunity to reduce or cancel them altogether. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u141	Please prepare the appropriate request that the national deputy, Shershun, spoke of. I invite Stanislav Arzevtin, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". It will be followed by John Vernidubov, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u142	The All-Ukrainian Foundation for the Remembrance of the Historical and Architectural Heritage of the Name, Olesia Honchara, appealed to the President of Ukraine to refute or confirm the statements made by the President of the Supreme Council regarding the intentions of rebuilding the Decade Church in Ukraine. The letter-response has not been received so far, the building site has not been dismantled. In this regard, I am charged with making an application on behalf of the Gonchar Foundation signed by members of the government of Franco, Argevitín, Gonchar, Gnatuk, Drach, Joulinsky, Dorofienko, Irshenko, Olijnik, Balhomenko, Toloczko, and others. A statement. "The government has been trying to destroy the historical value of the Decade Church for the past four years without sound scientific reasons. And every time it's made without public discussion, taking into account the thinking of the scientific, creative, monumental and protective community. At the same time, a clearly defined, scientifically based position on this point is that the foundations of the Tenth Church of the 20th century are located on the Mount of Starokiyiv, a worldwide architectural monument. Hence the beginning of Kiev and the ancient Russian state of pre - Christian times. The unique cultural layer contains monuments of the Neolithic, the Tropical, and the Scythian times, the ruby and the Black culture. The remains of the Ukrainian hail of Kya — the pagan tomb, the prince’s palaces, the feudal gardens, the craftsmen’s craftsmen, the Brotherly Tomb of Kyiv’s patrons. in the year. Any construction, construction, will destroy many of the unique monuments of archaeology and the authentic remains of the Decade Church. An attempt to recreate the monument without sufficient data on its original appearance, and even more so, the construction of the new church, it is suggested, will be a gross violation of the UNESCO Convention. In addition, scientists have recently conducted a state of technology in this area, which suggests an increase in environmental and technical risk. This is evidenced by the state of emergency of the Andrian Church and all the imports in the region. Members of the government of the All-Ukrainian Foundation for the Remembrance of the Historical and Architectural Heritage of the Name, Olesia Potter, hope to reassurance the power of the construction of the new church in this place, which will prevail in a balanced, scientific approach, taking into account the negative natural and technological processes of that area. State funds for the construction of the temple would be appropriate for the restoration of architectural monuments that have not been financed by the State for many years. And to the end. I welcome everyone to the New Year and Christmas Christ, and especially the Carpathians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u143	I invite John Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Vladimir Leschchenko, a faction of Communists. Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u144	Dear compatriots: sevastopols, pussies, freckles, representatives of all the corners of our small country! In the New Year's eve, at work, at home, we discuss our achievements, our losses, our memories of our loved ones and friends who have gone into another world and, of course, we look to the future, we plan to make up for what has been lost, and in the holiday talks, we are able to do it very easily, it seems possible. The main thing is not to grieve, but to remember that the New Year and Christmas of Christ are the best holidays in the whole universe, the happiest and most soulful holidays, in the family and loved ones, we finally become ourselves, we feel united with our friends, our neighbors, with the whole country. These festivals unite us, for they come into every house, into every family, and come in the same way with a fine tree, with a generous backing, bright fireworks, an atmosphere of special light joy from Christ. For everyone, the New Year, the Christmas of Christ is always a renewal, a flow of new strength and hope for the better. We would also like this feeling to remain after the holidays, so that the crutches, separating people, the south, the east, the north on the one side and the west on the other remain in the past, in which we can live peacefully and work for the benefit of our families, for the benefit of our fellow countrymen. It is important that we remember the lonely, elderly, the sick before we sit at the holiday table. So we don't stay on a holiday night. They're not alone. We need to invite them to our home or to visit them, warm them with our own warmth, and to receive additional human joy from them. Good health, happiness, inspiration, and happiness in all things in the New Year’s Eve! Happy birthday to you! Honest to you, Ivan Vernidubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u145	I'd like to invite Vladimir Leschenko, a faction of Communists. He will be followed by Yuri Hanusztak, the BUT faction, the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u146	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! In my speech, I intend to address two questions. First. It is recalled that in 2004, when Ukrainian Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic was in office as President of Ukraine, his team invented the Light City program as a pre-election campaign. Then, in fact, in the big cities, something was made of street lighting and other areas, and the village was forgotten, as always. Last week I had to visit every district of Montenegro, visit many rural areas. What's the big deal? In the evening and nighttime, virtually all the villages in the area are not lit up. The villagers on this issue returned to the postwar state. Perhaps the current bourgeois rule program of the Dark Village is under way. And this is against the backdrop of electricity production in Ukraine and exports abroad! Where else in the world can such a picture be seen? The Communist MPs on this issue answer that "lighting rural settlements is a matter of local self-government." Where, then, is state policy in terms of the well - being of the populace? The other one. Public and private structures have already become engrossed in the open and shameless selection of peasants. The Chernigiv region’s postal offices have recently begun to accept each receipt for a fee for electricity consumption of 80 copies per bracelet. Bank separations don't charge for maintenance, but they don't have them in the villages. The reason is that the Czerniwoblanergo public stock company has made appropriate service contracts with all banks, and with the district directorship of Crnoblanergo the agreement has not been successful. Although banking and postal services for such payments, according to NCRE officials, are on tariff. The Czernihiwoblanergo Pat explains that the Czernigów Directorate wants to get more money than is stipulated by the tariff, and the Chrnigiti Directorate assures that the costs of handling electricity charges included in the tariff do not cover the actual costs of operating on this issue. In this situation, the Winning Director, who gets 80 copies for each payment. In the winnings and PAT "Chernihiwoblanergo", which receives from each payment an additional revenue in the form of savings in the form of post office charges for electricity consumed by the population. In the loss, as always, peasants who were forced to throw extras for each payment of 1 bracelet 80 copies. The Communist faction asks: Where is the regulatory role of the state? Where's NKRE? Where is the Antimonopoly Committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u147	I'd like to invite Yuri Hanushtak, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." It will be followed by Sergey Baranov-Mohort, faction of the Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u148	Honourable head, honourable deputies, ladies and gentlemen! Election legislation is a test of the democracy of the political elite, the authorities need legitimacy, so the rules of election formation must be acceptable to both the majority and the opposition. In other words, both sides should be aware that they can lose by election results. However, the refusal of the majority to decriminalize article 365 of the CCU has shown that the current authority burns bridges and is willing to use any method to preserve the status quo, including gross falsifications of election results. And the question is not only that they have gone too far in their activities and are awaiting a strict assessment of the nation in the event of a defeat. The important thing is that today's structure of power after the changes to the Constitution does not provide for an uncontroversial existence of the President and a government formed by the opposition parliament. Today’s ruling elite recognises only the paradigm of corporate governance if a real puppeteer sits on the Bank and pulls the strings of the government on Sadowy, periodically lowering the couple by resigning the ostrich ministers. There is no room for this system of things when the Prime Minister will have to appoint a leader of the party that won the election to parliament. And in our situation, taking into account the safety of today's government and the steady decline in the ruling coalition's rating, it will undoubtedly be Julia Timoshenko. And the President will have to work with this government. Unless he plans to destroy Ukraine at all. I know it's hard, it's almost unbearable to realize that power has to be shared. Unfortunately, Yushchenko also did not realize that the President is the guarantor of the Constitution, not the king, who wants to control everything that moves. And Janukovich and the company will have to accept the fact that politics is called coexistence. Although it's not a new phenomenon after all. It's enough just to talk to colleagues from Poland and France or even the United States of America if they're allowed to at least hear it if they don't adopt the simple rules for preserving the social disaster while the government and the President work together from different political forces, to adopt that internal politics is shaped and implemented by the government, and on the outside the state is represented by the President. Now the Supreme Council is at the point of bifurcation. Either it falls completely under the cathode of authoritarianism, which has already destroyed the independence of the judicial system, or it persists. Regrettably, after the adoption of the mixed system, there is fear that MPs will finally be turned into buttoncadares without their own opinion and that the importance of the legislative body as an intelligence of the nation will be finally buried. In order to avoid this, we need to exert every effort on the democratic forces to prevent the subversives from taking power. To that end, it is necessary to identify the only list of candidates from the democratic forces in all majorities. It is necessary to explain to voters that the so-called independent candidates, if elected to Parliament, will no doubt infiltrate the factions of today: Party of regions, People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u149	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u150	THE 21st century — an era of local self - rule. Only it can be a protection against authoritarianism and dictatorship, and we are on the verge of reforming it. Only local self - government will save Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u151	I'd like to invite Sergey Baranova-Mohort, faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u152	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! On June 29, 2011, the Sambir City Council adopted decision No. 23 on the liquidation of out-of-school schools in Sambora and the establishment of the Sambora City Education Centre, which was based on which the Sambarian Ministry of Education issued a corresponding order at number 10. These decisions have resulted in the elimination of out-of-school institutions: the Young Naturalists' Station, the Children's and Youths' House, the Science and Technology House, the Small Academy of Sciences. The above decisions were taken in contravention of the Ukrainian Children's Protection Act, the Ukrainian Education Act and the Ministry of Education and Science's letter of 2 August 2010. [[on the conservation of the network of extra-school institutions]] On August 22, 2011, I addressed a parliamentary address to the Attorney General of Ukraine. The Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Lviv Region, after carrying out the examination of the facts mentioned in the MP’s statement, provided an answer indicating that the test had established the illegality of the above decision and that the Sambir Interstate Prosecutor’s Office had protested. Local self - government authorities rejected the interdepartmental prosecutor’s protest. In my opinion, opposition deputies in the Supreme Council have to expand their horizon, especially on geography issues, namely: to learn that there are other parts of the world besides the east of Ukraine, after all, to remove the shores -- and all of their patterns to turn to the west of Ukraine. No word of anger from the most democratic has been heard about the elimination of educational institutions in western Ukraine. Now let's analyze what, where, why and how it happened. The city council of Sambir includes 36 deputies, most deputies representing factions: "The Fatherland", "Our Ukraine", "Freedom", "The Council", "For Change", "The Front of Change". None of the so-called pro-dominant parties. 14 out of 36 deputies are directors of commercial structures or private entrepreneurs, 15 deputies take the lead in the authorities of the city of Samburi or in government institutions, the vast majority of which are medical. On June 29, 2011, MPs posed questions about the inclusion of four out-of-school schools in the agenda, voted in favour of inclusion, and later voted in favour of liquidation. And in their response to the MP's appeal, they gave a very thorough explanation of the reasons and consequences of optimism, and only in this case is the word "optimisation" spoken democratically, without traditional sarcasm. What are the reasons for the liquidation? It turns out they're traditional: weak group attendance, duplicating groups, other out-of-school schools, and so on. But there is also a lack of sarcasm about this in contrast with similar situations in the east, south, and center of Ukraine. Now, notice: all four buildings, and so on, the land areas, all of which have been cleared out of school.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u153	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u154	Located in the center of Sambora. Is there a need to provide an analysis of the future fate of this property after some time, now not the closest, because of the resonance it has received. It's been a few months - so what? Did anyone hear these problems from representatives of the Lviv Arch, from the Ukrainian national deputies, who are part of the respective democratic factions of the Fatherland, the NS, the Change Front and so on? By the way, my speech today is not just for the sake of conversation and criticism, the actions of the MPs of the city of Sambir, the inaction of the deputies of the Lviv Archibald, but only the populist expressions of the democratic factions themselves and the political parties, the passiveness of this issue of the local media. I speak with the aim of focusing the attention of all officials on the need.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u155	Please, you've got a minute, or finish or else.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u156	the need to solve problems within the framework of legislation, the argument of revealing the empty talk carried out from the mouth. I want the authorities of all levels to keep abreast of the situation and not allow the city of Sambora, which belongs to the educational sphere, to be torn apart. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u157	I invite John Popescu, the faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, we don't have many deputies left, I ask you to follow the rules so everyone can speak. Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u158	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, honourable voters, yesterday we adopted the Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 and the Programme for the Social and Economic Development of Ukraine for 2012 and for the period 2013-2014. Despite the harsh conditions of the adoption of budget rates in connection with the high price of Russian gas, social standards will be increased. There has also been an increase in the number of social objects built in the region at the expense of the State Budget. And I'm going to show this for the smaller part of Ukraine, the Chernivecki region. Yes, in the first years of independence from the State Budget, six health-care facilities will be funded, which were urged by the Chernobyl ODA and the Bucharest Party of the Regions. This relates to the restoration of a children's hospital on Bukovinska Street in Chernivice – 10 million dollars, this is the capital repair of a children's clinic – 2 million 331 000 grevens, this is the construction of blocks of the district centre "Medico-Social Rehabilitation of Children" – 11 million 635 thousand dollars, this is the capital repair of a hospital of ambulances on Fastovska Street – 10 million grivins, this is the construction of a maternity house in Hotina – 10 million 780,000 grivins, this is a reconstruction of an anti-tuberculosis sanatorium in the village of Krasnoilsk – 4 million 164 thousand grivens. Also in the restoration of the Černovetsk music drama theater, Olga Kobiljansky, 8 million 239,000 were allocated. It is also the construction of schools in the village of Lužana in the Kisman region – 5 million 496 thousand dollars, a gymnasium in the village of Krasnoilske Strážinetski district of the second row – 7 million 27,000 dollars. A school in the village of Zrub. The Watchtower area is 10 million dollars, this is the construction of a school in the village of Magala Novoselické region – 3 million 810 thousand dollars. In addition, another six amendments I made with Deputy Romanyuk were further supported yesterday. To begin the construction of the school in the village of Jordanesh of the Głbotsky region, 5 million dollars were allocated. To build a school in the village of Moshanec in the Kelmenack region, there are 14 million 36,000 dollars. Schools in the village of Ternavka in the region of Herceiv are 8 million gravel. Schools in the village of Tislovec of the Watchtower Region -- 10 million bracelets and two kindergartens in the village of Sprisheni -- 7 million 873,000 bracelets and in the village of the State of the Deep Region -- 3 million 307,000 bracelets. Why am I announcing this? Dear colleagues, during this year, I have been constantly speaking out of the rostrum of these objects, and most of them have been funded by the State Budget. So I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Montenegrin community and the villages involved, to express my gratitude to the government and most of the Supreme Council for supporting these proposals. And with the New Year and Christmas, I salute everyone! I wish you happiness, health! And for the people of the Hertzian region who will be celebrating Christ’s Christmas this weekend, I want to wish them Romanian in their native language. [[speak Romanian]] Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u159	I don't see the Light. I'd like to invite you to the Vadim Koleznichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. It will be followed by Andrew Schlell, the "BUT - Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u160	The Party of the Regions faction, Vadim Koleschenko. Dear Ukrainians, we certainly live in a very difficult, difficult time. However, in the depth of this tunnel, there is a strong and very important hope that, apart from the economic decisions that await our country in the coming years, we will also be faced with solutions to a large cluster of humanitarian problems. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on 13 December this year confirmed the legality of the use of regional languages in the judicial system and the adoption of four procedural codes, which have been blocked for six months in our Parliament, so that all processes can be used equally with the State and regional languages. Too many copies have been broken here around the language theme, but I can clearly and clearly say that in the twenty-first century, globalization does not constitute the language of the State, because the United States of America is the largest, richest, powerful Power of the world has no American language. Australia's successful country does not have Australian language. Brazil’s vast, bright country has no Brazilian language, although there are Brazilian monkeys. I can say that's one of the few examples that tells us that it's not the language, it's the people who build the Power. For our country, the primary priority proclaimed by the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic, is the protection and protection of human rights. Only around this settlement will we be able to build our whole and independent Ukrainian State, where every citizen of our State will be happy and content to live in a prosperous country where human rights are not violated, where the rights of one end where the rights of the other begin. That is true democracy, and that is true of people. It's not the manipulation of politicians and politicians, it's real life. The Bill on the Basics of Language Public Policy by Kolesniknka and Kiwalov is supported by the Venice Commission, supported by 11 VUZami of our State, 46 scientific and cultural and educational societies of Ukraine. And I can tell you, next year, we are embarking on a campaign to support and protect human rights in the use of the mother tongue. In the coming year, I would like finally to lower the level of tension and increase the confidence of all people in one another, regardless of language, nationality and religion. I hope that the New Year, the Christmas of Christ, will unite the Ukrainian community in the struggle for the most important, for human rights in the happy, independent Power of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u161	I'd like to introduce you to Andrey Skull, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Dmitry Schlemko, "BUT is the Fatherland." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear radio audiences, television audiences! Dear Chairman! Of course, it was a pleasure for the previous speaker to conclude his speech with a call for respect for human rights. Of course, the only right that he calls for disrespect in Ukraine is the right of the national majority, that is, the Ukrainians, to speak the national language. Plus, I'll remind you that the person who came from Sevastopol went there in his embroidered shirt, urged everyone to forget Russian, and to study Ukrainian. This was in the past, once upon a time, at least there are rumors circulating in the city of Sevastopol. And I would like to say that metamorphosis is happening or not the strangest in Ukraine. Right now, it's the day before Christmas. These celebrations are, of course, warm and pleasant to every Ukrainian. But not everyone will meet these holidays at home with their family. For example, the leader of our political power. The leader of the opposition. The leader of the presidential race, the past, there, a few and a half percent managed to scrutinize today’s President in order to win the election, will meet a new year in prison. And in general, I'm wondering why we're doing what we call this selective principle right now. Why are some of the government officials who have certain indulgences not just at home but in positions, in silks, and others under investigation and behind bars?Oh, my God! Why was the government divided by 50 percent? 50 percent irresponsible, others responsible? Why was one of the government officials, namely, the former defence minister, as I recall, on March 23, this year, a report was posted on the Attorney General’s website that in 2006 on the basis of an order from Defence Minister Anatolia Grizzenka dated 30.06. In 2005, the Minobran State Company was transferred to a private firm of 11 buildings with a total area of more than 2,000 square feet [2,000 sq m], along with a land area of 24 acres [24 ha], formerly numbered 247 for only 10 million dollars. It is noteworthy that the area is 27 kilometers [27 km] of Capital Road, that is, at the end of Sleep. I emphasize that 24 hectares of land have been transferred to the End of Sleep, each hundred of which today costs about $30,000 at market prices. And so on. I mean, we can keep going. Further from the countrymen of Lviv, messages come from this point of view. And the D.A. established the facts, recorded everything, and the Ministry of Defense was declared invalid, some responsible were attracted, but if there was a minister behind bars, that is, a minister who did not have the responsibility to do so. So actually, I would like, at the end of the year, at least this power, at least in its evil actions, when it tries to terrorize the opposition, to come out of the mere presumption of innocence or guilt of all, or of all guilt, or of all innocents. I believe that the greatest sin of today’s authority is that it determines who serves it, who is innocent and who is against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u163	Welcome to the word of Dmitri Schlemck, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Orestes Mutz will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u164	Dmitry Schlemko, Fatherland faction. Respectable compatriots! The Ukrainians have a wise saying, "You want to see your face, look in the mirror." It would be good for this national statement to be used from time to time by present - day authorities. The mirror should be for the Ukrainian people, their lives, or their own vastly powerful men do not see their full face, which looks despisingly from the cabinets and high hills and looks at the routine of ordinary Ukrainians, urging them to endure and work with a shovel. That sounds wild, but the reality is that the Vice Prime Minister doesn't know the price of food, the Prime Minister does not know the salary of the teacher, and the President of Ukraine does not know the size of the Chernobyl pension. And it's understandable why, because now, in power, billionaires and multimillionaires, people who are living alone and giving their children, like Janukovic's son, commercial banks with millions of capitals, and Azarov's sons and Klav's hundreds of millions of dollars to function as their own firms, are providing them with all their lives at the expense of the Ukrainian people, for the first time, I stress, for the first time in the history of Ukraine's independence, an increase in the state's poor is planned. In support of this, Ukraine's 2012 Economic and Social Development Programme, which he presented to Parliament on the second reading, saw an increase in poverty in society from 24.1 in 2010 to 26.2 per cent in 2012. That's what the social policy of today's government is all about, the truth is, as the Prime Minister of the Ukraine of Azarov said today, he doesn't know about it. It's just a hood! At the same time, the wealth of the oligarchs will increase by billions in the following year, because one third of Ukraine's 2012 budget, approved by the majority yesterday, except the Communist Party, is the budget for so-called deductions, because it has billions in Euro-2012, to be built only by donut companies across Ukraine by airports, roads, infrastructure, where 40 percent of the planned funds fall into government pockets, to purchase three-way oil surpluses, billions of subsidies to coal mines -- and so on. Because every line of budget breathes money that will be stolen. According to sociology, Ukrainians no longer believe in this authority. Every day there is an increase in hatred for those who have promised a life worthy of it today, and indeed did not specify that only for their own, but for the common people — poverty, opposition — prisons. Isn't it true about today's power that Julia Timoshenko, the leader of the Fatherland Party, has been convicted and tortured? Is there something similar in our memory? When the United States, Europe, the world community, heads of state, leaders of political parties, who so friendlyly stood up to defend a political leader who is thrown into prison only because he has failed to bend, has not complied, has not taken, as is customary for this team, the one who has become a monarch in Ukraine today, at the same time, the mask is very, very afraid of people, their opinions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u165	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u166	The undisputed truth, on a three - foot [3 m] park, will not build a normal state in fear. With opposition, people need to have a dialogue, take care of them, if you want to, and not destroy them socially and politically. There's still time, as the great Ukrainian prophet Taras Shevchenko would say: "Shame yourselves, be men, for you will be in trouble!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u167	I'd like to invite Oreste Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Samuel Catherine of Simeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u168	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. Dear fellows, fellow countrymen! Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic identified the tourism sector as an important component of the development of the national economy. The Head of State points out that our rich potential obliges us to produce a quality tourist product that will compete in the world. In Ternopilska, the real tourist pearl is the city of Pochayev, where one of the largest Orthodox centers of the Christian world is Saint-Uspenska Pocayovska Lavra. During the year, about a million believers visit Laura. With this potential, we are obliged to turn the city into the tourist-palomary center of Ukraine of a modern European model. A great deal is being done by the Pochai Lavra herself, led by Archbishop Volodymyr. A pilgrim’s hotel has already been built in its territory. A new great congregation of the transfiguration of the Lord is being built. At the same time, a number of economic sites need State support. This is the restoration of the plant’s plant, the capital repair of the treatment plant, and the completion of the reconstruction of the water supply system. Convinced, today's leadership of the state will help Begin to become a worthy tourist and pilgrimage centre of Ukraine. And Ternopolska will move from saying that tourism is a priority to real business. Today, my parliamentary request to the Attorney General of Ukraine has been announced so as not to allow the construction of a garbage treatment complex on the territory of the Strussov Rural Council. This decision was taken by the district authorities, giving appropriate permission to enterprising orange opponents, perhaps not thanks. A crowd of villages have already expressed their indignation. Because there's a health camp nearby, a boarding school, a housing facility, a forest park. We support the community and we won't let officials turn the earth into a garbage dump. Dear people of Ternopil! Welcome to the upcoming New Year's Christmas celebrations, the well-being of your families, the belief in the powerful future of Ukraine and the prosperity of our native country of Ternopil! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u169	Samuel Catherine Semenovna, a faction of Communists, is invited to the floor. She'll be followed by Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u170	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich! I want, on behalf of the faction of all Ukrainians, to greet the people of Ukraine with the New Year and to wish happiness, success, not to lose faith, but to give us God to be the economic rise of our nation. Of course, everyone is rethinking a New Year’s gift — the 2012 budget, of course, an antisocial, crisis budget. And the provocation that took place in this room at the end of the vote for the National Budget of Ukraine enabled them to take the benefits into the hundreds of former national deputies, while taking them to the Chernobyl, Afghans, veterans of the Great Homeland War, disabled people, children of war, and their millions. What did the people of Ukraine win? It's probably nothing. How do you survive, for example, education with 20% coverage of utilities? Who will give the recipe for how to get out of this situation? What Future for Young Families? Young people are granted only 34 million dollars for long - term loans. And for the construction of housing for government officials, 90 million. Why this imbalance, which has caused science? There's been a substantial reduction in the cost of the National Academy of Sciences -- more than a billion dollars -- applied, fundamental research, targeted, state programs that the National Academy should be supporting. How do you explain why 43.3 million are underfunded for the Artek International Children's Centre? This 5 changes won't work, people won't get paid, they won't get heated, everything will stop, 5 changes. I want to emphasize that in and 5 changes in Artek's MDC are resting children with disabilities, children with disabilities, these are thematic changes in "Believe in Yourself." And these kids once in their lives are in this family of ours, the birthplace of a child country. I understand the complexity of the situation, I realize the debt is huge. But "hitting holes" at the expense of social programs and at the expense of less protected people is immoral.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u171	I'd like to invite Mr. Gnatkiewicz Yuri Vasilovich, the "BUT" faction. He'll be followed by Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u172	Dear fellow Ukrainians, more than a week later, will meet tens of millions of Ukrainians in the New Year near their families, near a holiday tree. The leaders of the opposition, Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko, will meet them behind bars. To encourage them in some way, I will remind them of the famous words of the great revolutionary John Frank: "For the will of the people, for his rights there are no fearful bonds, sweet prisons. One hundred thousand fighters will stand before the battle. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, I feel it is my duty to remind you that Timoshenko is not a failure in his gas deal with Russia. Because Azarov still can't make a "good" deal and said yesterday in an interview that it's very difficult to negotiate with the Russians. What did they actually plant Julia for? Let's remember who, in President Kuchma's time, when wages and pensions were not paid, stopped bartering equipment for oil and gas magnets and made it possible to pay taxes, who after the second round of presidential elections in December 2004, when Kiwalov announced Yanukovich to the elected President, urged the people to go to Kiev to Midan Independence to protest against the falsification of elections, that is, who called Midan. Third. Who, after the victory of the "orange revolution", became Prime Minister, announced the Government's intention to verify the legality of privatization of more than 300 large enterprises, and if violations of legislation were detected, would return them to the State? After all, who took the Creebrisstal factory from Rinat Ahmtov and Kuchma's son-in-law, Pinchuk? Next. Who convinced the representatives of BUT and the faction of our Ukraine to give up their mandates and announce the next election after which Yanukovic was dismissed as prime minister? Next. Who became Janukovic's main competitor in the last presidential election, and who would be president if it weren't for the mass frauds at Donbassa and the Crimea, and not those who voted against both? Who today is not tired of repeating that the main problem of Ukraine and the enemy of democracy is the criminal oligarchy clans? Who never stood before Rodion Kiriev before the Pecher Court, claiming that her trial was not Kiriev’s, but the Mafia? After all, who annoys the entire anti - Ukrainian fifth column by always speaking only Ukrainian and shouting Slav to Ukraine! The same questions can be asked, the answer will be the same: it is Julia Timoshenko who prevents the anti-Ukrainian from establishing a dictatorship in Ukraine based on her oligarhat. She's the one they're afraid of, so they put her in jail. I welcome Yuri Lucenka, my countryman, we're both with.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u173	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u174	Congratulations to Julia Timoshenko on New Year's Eve! I'll see you in the new year.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u175	I'd like to invite Oleg Lachazka, the non-factional one, to finish the "Variance" hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u176	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Soon all of Ukraine, citizens will meet the New Year, and with what mood do we meet this New Year?Oh, my God! We have been promised the nation’s leadership that under the New Year’s tree, they will present a gift for the entire Ukrainian people. In fact, yesterday the Supreme Council placed a huge pig for the Ukrainian people, not a gift, under this tree. Afghans, Chernobyls, children of war, veterans -- in all, 16 categories of Ukrainian citizens -- were deprived of all rights under the Budget Act yesterday. Now the masquerade officials, Azarov and others, will hand-share this money. He got up from the wrong leg -- he didn't give me money, he kicked me in the nose -- he gave me money. And millions of people will depend on the attitude of the officials. Will they give the common people money? No, it's not. They only steal from themselves, they can steal from themselves. The budget is used to wash money away, and people are taken away. And when the authorities lie to us that they took away the benefits of the national MPs yesterday, that's not true. No one took the benefits. Stopped for one year before the elections. After the election, everything will be restored, and every day it will be for itself. I'm asking Prime Minister Azarov today, "Do you have a house in Austria or your son?" And he says to me, "I won't answer you." As the leader of the radical party, I demand that Azarov withdraw from the State House, give up a pension of 40,000 dollars, give up a salary of 70,000 dollars, give up medical treatment – 500 million dollars for the treatment of officials next year, 200 million dollars for air travel next year. And what Azarov says to me is, "I don't understand your question." What's the big deal? Didn't he realize he needed to get out of a free home? Didn't he realize he had to give up a free pension for the undeserving? Did they not realize that they had destroyed the country? They tell people, "There's no money in the budget." In Cherkas, maternity home No.2 is closed down by dozens, hundreds of hospitals, schools, FAPs, outpatients, and cultural buildings throughout the country. They live in public houses themselves, being massaged for a well - held massage. It's every morning, Azarov, it's a mile away. Which pool does he swim in? Few children in the pool to learn how to swim! And the children of the sea cannot see the waters, for everywhere there are swamps, mud huts, and other officials. And by children, normal Ukrainians are shot in the back, unable to reach the water, because, you see, there are government officials swimming! And that's why I think the best gift for Ukraine on the eve of 2012 is to have this power, along with the Party of Regions, board one boat and drown in the Black Sea. And this will be the best gift for the country, for millions of Ukrainian citizens. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-23-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the "Victory" ends, some MPs could speak out with their problems, which they thought were necessary. I want to remind you that the Supreme Council works as follows: on December 26-30, the national MPs work with the electorate, on January 3-6, they work in committees and factions. The meeting of the Conciliation Board will be held at 9 p.m. on Tuesday, January 10th. And the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin on Tuesday 10 January at 10 a.m. I would like to congratulate you on the New Year's and Christ's Christmas! Wish 2012 would be better for you, for your families, than for Ukraine in 2011. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Merry Christmas!
