ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:03]] There were 374 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian National Deputies Poluniev Yuri Volodymyrovich. He was 55 years old. Please welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And please welcome Saint Dmitry Volodymyrovich. He also has a birthday. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on June 14, 2011. Thirty-five issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 2 laws and 2 decrees were passed, 11 bills were passed on the basis, 2 bills were sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, 1 bill and 1 draft decree were returned to the subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, 11 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Wednesday for the performances of the National Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, please make a record of the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Dmitri Spinov. I'm sorry, People's Deputy Schlemko, "BUT is the Fatherland." The next one will be Hellhound.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u2	I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u3	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear Ukrainian people! Political repression against the opposition, its leaders, aimed at destroying human rights, the freedom of speech aimed at destroying the democratic system in our country, continues in the country. Despite all the actions that the European Parliament is taking today, condemning completely not only the unconstructive but the illegal actions of power led by Yanukovic, condemning the actions of the law-enforcement system, which is completely ordered, concealing the eyes, carrying out those tasks by performing their duties or other interests. Today, in the shades, the bouquets continue to be illegal not only those who have a bearing on the movement of the opposition, such as Yuri Lucenko, Anatoly Makarenko, Igor Didenko, who acted in the interests of Ukrainian citizens, in the interests of the Ukrainian people. A public opinion that is clearly said cannot be distorted, and this has been confirmed by the Razumkov Centre, that the larger, absolute majority of Ukrainian citizens believe that political persecution and political repression are being carried out in Ukraine today. What about other matters when such reprisals take place in relation to recognized persons, such as Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenko. So I am again addressing the Attorney General, the Minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, when the Deputy District Council, the director of the Wojciekhowski School, was illegally taken to the woods and beaten only for expressing his opinion about the groundless closure of schools in the Rodivil district. And this head of administration, who is the contracting authority, is still in office today. That's what selectivity in power is before what's going on. For 16 days, the prosecution and the police did nothing to find children alive in Crimea, two girls. They weren't looking for anything. But, and then they were killed, they died, but very quickly all decisions are made with regard to the leaders of Maidan, and new groups are introduced to those who protest, who have to fight directly against opposition and other differences in the country. We clearly state: neither political repression.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u4	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Tetjan Bachchev will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Recently, we, the authorities, are increasingly being challenged, and perhaps just, in that the time has come to put an end to the transfer of arrows to the previous Government, to the previous power, and the time has come to answer what we have done specifically. And in the context of this question, the best answer is our day of work yesterday. First, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I don't know what to explain, but yesterday was a very constructive, very productive working day by the whole of the Supreme Council, perhaps because the Conciliation Council was not held on Monday, but started on Tuesday. Most importantly, yesterday, a law was passed that waited for all that was going on in the social sphere, and our voters waited for the changes to the 2011 budget. I was saddened to hear that some of our colleagues, who differed in mind, truly wanted to change for the better, called it a deriban. What can be called a deriban is that it increases the salaries of health workers, education workers, social workers by 300-400 grivens. If it's a derby, then my colleagues and I are ready to deal with this derby every day. Can you please tell us what the deridan could call a situation where money is being sent to stabilize Naftogaz Ukraine? The stable work of Naftogaz Ukraine is a stable tariff. Maybe you don't like stability, but you're not here. Here is the main opinion of our constituents. I know exactly what. I have been addressing Zaporozhye for decades: the construction of a hospital in Kusugum Zaporozhye district, the construction of a water supply in Volnjansk, a burning kindergarten. This is the only government and this law that has finally solved these problems. This was not because there was a member from the Party of the Regions, however, all those amounts were allocated by population in each area. I understand very well that in one year you can't do everything that's piled up for decades. But the first step is done, and I'm sure it's not the last one this year. As a result of 9 months, we will return to the budget, and we will meet the challenge and commitments: to raise pensions, raise wages, start returning contributions and savings. The main thing is to start paying the children of war in full. That's the president's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u6	Finish up. Tetjana Bachevieva, faction of the Party of the Regions. Sergey Tereshuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u7	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Tomorrow we are considering two very important strategic bills aimed at reforming the health sector. The first is an amendment to Ukraine's health legislation. The second is about pilot projects that have already started in Donetsk, Dnepropetrovsk, Vinnitsk and Kiev. I am very grateful to my colleagues to the people's deputies who, at the meeting of our committee, unanimously supported these bills. Because they were based on their professionalism, without piranhas and without politics. Today, we must all understand together that without reforms in the health sector, the country is doomed to a severe demographic crisis. Recently, the United Nations forecast that if the demographic situation in the country is the same as it is and continues for the past 10 years, the population of Ukraine will be 30 million in 2050. This is based on very important facts. In 10 years, Ukraine lost 6 million people, compared with the population of Norway, Denmark, Georgia, Sweden. Every generation in our country ends in the death of a child. We have the highest demographic crisis, the highest mortality rates in all of Europe. Therefore, all the bills are aimed at making effective, rational use of the budget allocated to health. First of all, this is the distinction between primary, secondary, tertiary health care, the establishment of health districts, and the introduction of mandatory uniform treatment standards. And, of course, I would like to address all the people's deputies so that you will be aware of these reforms. No hospital will be closed anywhere, no one will be completely unemployed. The treatment facilities will be re-profiled and used in a rational manner. The fund and the financial opportunities we have. Today I want to say that many today, once again, and most of all for politicians, say that hospitals are closing down. There are absolutely no such facts, I am prepared as chairman of the committee to accept, if there are such cases, myself personally to deal with. According to article 49 of the Constitution, this is prohibited and no one will do so. I am deeply convinced, people's deputies, that only by working together will we be able to reform one of the most complex, very important industries.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u8	Finish up, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u9	Health services that are available in our country. This is necessary for the future of our country, it is necessary for our children. I very much want the health system in our country to be the only joint effort that we will be proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u10	Thank you. Sergey Mikolaiovich Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party. The next one will be Stephen Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party, Cherkaschina. Finally, the question of what to be tariffs is a dot. Tariffs should be accessible to people and should be the same throughout Ukraine. But today I want to talk about people who are not interested or interested in tariffs. These are the people who live in rural areas and who provide themselves with water from wells that warm their homes by harvesting insects, or by buying wood and coal into smugglers. Too bad, but even in the Soviet Union, in times of independence, the state has not been able to supply the settlements with blue fuels. Today the situation is compounded by the cost of running gas into the village. Expensive underwater gas pipeline. And today not every rural family can be able to bring blue fuel to their home: it costs a boiler a lot of money, and it costs a lot of equipment. A reasonable alternative to this situation may be electricity. At least the electricity is brought to every inhabited area, and the electricity is brought to the homes. But here's the problem: heat from electricity is three times more expensive. Therefore, there is no need for support from the State. And the People's Party faction will initiate, when the budget is adopted, a state-owned energy costing programme to heat up rural homes. I would also like to draw attention to the gas pipelines that have already been built and constructed. Yes, 25 pipelines were planned to be built in Cherkishka. NAK Naftogaz is practically not funding today, requiring the district budget to compensate for state budget subsidies. Paradox: both underwater and distributed gas lines go to the Naftogazu balance. At the same time, the district council should finance these expenses. In Cherkas, three villages — Chigirinski, Caternopilski, Roshovatka, Vikneno, Lisyanski, Rubany Bridge, Maryanyvka — have made gas. People are waiting two years to turn on the gas. Naftogaz can't find the money. I'm asking the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the government to review the issues related to the construction of gas pipelines, and I'm asking the Ministry of Fuel, Energy, to develop state programmes that will enable rural people to obtain electricity or alternative fuels at reduced tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u12	Stephen Kurpil, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Next up will be Groškevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, during the last days we have seen that Europe does not believe in tears or words, but believes in its own eyes. There the pink glasses were removed, through which they watched Ukraine, and looked at our reality without traditional lenientness, and critically, though kind. I am referring to two documents: the European Parliament resolution on the political repression of Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, other opposition actors, as well as the report of the international law-enforcement organization Friedom House, which is called "Stressing for Democracy in Ukraine". In particular, Freedom House is concerned about how the authorities use the courts and the U.S.S.A. for selective justice. As well as the fact that corruption continues to devastate Ukraine, there are serious prerequisites for making the situation worse. According to defenders, the concentration of power in the hands of the President also reveals authoritarian trends. The European Parliament warned the Ukrainian authorities about the inadmissibility of political persecution and warned them against the possible use of criminal law as a tool for achieving political goals. The European Parliament resolution states that investigations into prominent Ukrainian political leaders should not hinder their active political activities, their meetings with voters, and their travel to international action. That's why the European Parliament called on the Ukrainian authorities to release Yuri Lucenka from custody and also to lift the ban on the travel of Yulia Timoshenko, both inside and outside the country. The European Parliament noted that the rule of law and the fight against corruption, which is what Victor Janukovic says in every European forum, is needed not only for an association agreement and a free trade zone with the European Union, but primarily for Ukraine itself. Dear colleagues, there is one idea that unites the vast majority of Ukrainians and does not contradict power and opposition, is an idea of European integration that gives hope for a decent life for Ukrainians in the European Union. And no one will be able to bury this dream and hope: neither Russia nor any country of the European Union, except for the Ukrainian authorities. If the power listens to the European Parliament's voice and corrects its policy, it will not be in words, but in practice follow the European standards of democracy, we have a chance to get closer to Europe. Another way is the way back, this is the way to nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u14	Yes, National Deputy Horoskevich, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u15	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Reforms. Reforms in Ukraine are the most common words in the past year and a half, which exist in the media and on the part of the authorities, and on the part of the opposition. Every week in Parliament, our employee. Tatyana Dmitryevna Bahechev was coming out, saying that we would now adopt laws relating to health reform. This week, we will consider pension reform. And institutions have been set up, public debates are being held on all aspects of reform, which is what power does. The opposition, in turn, accepts nothing, and the main message now is, "Well, you see, the year has passed, and where have the reforms been, where have the results been?" I'm not talking to the people sitting in this room right now, because what I'm saying is they know everything, I'm talking to the radio audiences and TV viewers: open up every search engine, open every country that's been through reforms since 1960 in America since the beginning of 2000 in Georgia, and there's no reform for one year, at least 10 years. The pension reform in Poland, which is considered to be one of the most successful, has its cycle, which began in 1999, 30 years, and will end in 2030. The UK health reform: 3.5 years was a preparatory period, explained, argued, discussed. There was one pilot region, and the reform lasted 12 years. Reforms are a qualitative, serious change in industries and structures that cannot be implemented quickly. That's the first one. And the second. Almost all countries have undergone shock reforms, it is when people and society do not change, one, two, three years of demonstrations and protests, and it is only now possible to read the feedback of those who stood on the barricades, that everything did right and we needed those changes. That is why I want to tell politicians: stop speculating on the area of reform. The reform area is no place for political warfare, adventure and politics. If reforms fail, it loses power, Ukraine loses. And I want to say that our team will do everything to ensure that the reforms in Ukraine take place, and Ukraine has won.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u16	Ivan Kirilenko is transferring the right to speak to Sergio Saz, right? Please. Then Peter Yushchenko will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u17	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! Sergey Sas, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. On April 5, this year, the Supreme Council adopted a decision approving the recommendations of parliamentary hearings on "The State of Pension Reform and its ways of improving it." A number of problems related to the implementation of the pension reform mentioned in the Recommendations point to the need for a comprehensive approach to its implementation. Ignoring once again the Supreme Council’s proposal, the Cabinet of Ministers brought the former draft Law 7455 to Parliament. A comparative analysis of the content of the above-mentioned draft laws gives reason to say that the government continues to plan reforms at the expense of current and future pensioners, namely, by increasing the legal length of the insurance service for minimum retirement for women from 20 to 30 years of age, for men from 25 to 35 years of age. At the same time, the government does not answer the question of where to work for women who are 29 years of age, men who are 34 years of age, if there is a practice of discrimination in Ukraine today not only in private but also in state enterprises. The second is by increasing the retirement age of women from 55 to 60, while women's wages in Ukraine are 40 percent and pensions are 3 times lower than in men. Third, at the expense of military officials, for retirement for 25 calendar years; for most low-paid civil servants due to an increase in the retirement age to 62 years for men and 60 years for women, a reduction in their pensions from 90 per cent to 80 per cent of their salaries, provided that the wages of government officials at the district level are barely higher than a thousand dollars. The culmination of government cynicism is the increase in the insurance period required for the appointment of invalidity pensions from 5 to 15. It is just an inexhaustible list of the novels of the government bill, which in one way or another narrows down the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, which severely violates the requirements of article 22 of the Constitution. If what is called pension reform does not address the issue of improving pension insurance, covering the pension deficit, what is the purpose? The only thing left is to have another access to credit resources. We would like to remind the government that Presidential candidate Yanukovic has promised Ukrainian citizens a minimum pension of 1,200, an average of 2,000. So today we have 760 and 1150. The President's promises must be fulfilled, Your Honor! Taking it off your naked shirt is known to be hopeless and sometimes dangerous. We offer you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u18	Finish up, please. Thank you. Peter Yushchenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next one will be the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u19	Peter Yushchenko, "Our Ukraine." Dear National Deputies! On the night. One of the nights of the Trinitarian festivals at the Asuld’s grave was a cross cut off. The Greek-Catholic Church, and by the way, whoever puts the cross is a sign of our salvation. The Greek-Catholic Church has established 14 crosses from the coast of Dniper to the Church, symbolizing the same cross road that begins with the Pretoria of Povila de La Rosa to Golgopha. It is likely that, according to the historical version itself, under this cross is the burial of the Holy Benevolent Prince Asold. I will remind you of the historical record of the baptism of our land, which was first carried out in the 1950s by the Original Andrews, the first disciple of Christ. He came upon these mountains, set up a cross, and said, "Look at the mountains of this land. The grace of God will come down upon them, and it will soar. And the Lord will build many churches there, and from there the world of truth will be reaped." From this city, the world of truth came from Volina, from Carpathian to Alaska. The second baptism took place in the fourth century C.E. by Bishop Gothsky Ulillo, and in the third century by Charious Asold. There was a metropolis, and there was also Michaelo, Archbishop of Constantinople. Then, in the neighborhoods, this metropolis, like his family, the Ascolds, died. The fourth baptism of the equivalent prince of Olga and the fifth baptism by the establishment and implementation of religious reform, administrative reform, military and financial reform is being carried out by our equal - apostolic Vladimir. Five baptisms survived this land. From this point on, the world of truth really did so. Kiev became a church mother for many neighbors. And you will think, today, at the Trinitarian Festivals, which must have vandalism, which must have nature in order to cut down the cross on the grave of the holy, benevolent prince? I'm asking a question, let me ask you, at what point are we going to fall so that we can push ourselves back to the light? And God, as you know, is light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u20	People's MP Caplienko, MP of Reforms for the Future. Lilia Grigorovich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, the Reforms for the Future group notes that forecasts of oil prices are disappointing. Yes, the World Bank predicts an increase in oil prices to $107.2 per barrel in 2011. While, according to his previous forecast, only $92 per barrel was projected from the last price. Against the background of the overall decline in the global oil market and political instability in North Africa and the Middle East, there is a further increase in prices for all the hydrocarbons consumed by the world today. The rise in price in the world oil market also causes a sharp rise in prices for Russian gas, which, as you know, we depend on. If this price is now $350 per thousand cubic meters, then the fourth quarter, according to the Russian company Gazprom, is projected to increase prices to $390-420 per thousand cubic meters. At the same time, Russia clearly uses gas prices as a weight of political pressure on Ukraine. Their review of the Russian leadership is directly linked to two thesis: Ukraine must enter the Customs Union and form a joint venture between Gazprom and Naftogaz. So it has to be noted that the development of an unfavourable scenario for our economy is already going on. In this context, the MP's Reform for the Future calls on the Government of Ukraine to take urgent steps to guarantee the energy security of the state. First of all, it is the immediate implementation of energy conservation programmes, since Ukraine’s energy consumption is three times the same as that of the European Community. Accordingly, only energy conservation measures will allow for the reduction of energy imports three times. The development of renewable energy sources — wind, solar, earth heat, alternative solid fuels — is also a priority. Of course, the State’s energy security cannot be secured without the cooperation of the State and science. New views, involvement of scientists, and the restoration of government procurement for new technologies are a guarantee of a sure move forward. We insist that on Friday 17 June, the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Yuri Boyko, during the "Year of Questions to the Government" answered the question about the state of the development and implementation of measures by the Government of Ukraine to secure the energy security of the State in the form that the parliamentary group on the Conciliation Council insisted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u22	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u23	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! When the parliamentary majority finishes their work day before lunch, because there are so many short-term bills, and the parliamentary minority has no effective vote on Wednesday, they want to rely on the world experience of state-building and parliamentaryism. Great Britain. There is the parliamentary majority of her Majesty the Queen and the parliamentary minority, her Majesty the Queen. We don't have a queen, we have a parliamentary majority of her greatness in Ukraine, and a parliamentary minority of her greatness in Ukraine. From the parliamentary minority of Ukraine's greatness I want to point out, it's been a year and a half since we've had the stability, the kind of desired, the kind of irradiated, the kind of iron concrete stability. So what? In fact, if it wasn't for yesterday and we didn't increase the payment on the tariff grid, I'd say nothing at all. Nothing at all when they cheat on 24 billion bribes, she needs to raise God’s wages on a tariff grid. Reforms. I can't help but agree that they are needed and should last for a long time, but in a year and a half, it is necessary to hear her parliamentary minority of Ukraine's greatness, as I say, on behalf of the parliamentary minority of Ukraine's greatness: reform through the prism of the interests of 46 million, not a few hundred oligarchs. Why was there a tax haven? For the oligarchs. Do you want to avoid retirement during retirement reform? Work through the prism of Ukrainian national interests. When the total income of our billionaires is 56 billion, the 40 budget, and the pension reform at the expense of Ukrainians and the increase in pensionable age alone, can be a pension platform. Hear her magnificence as a minority of the Ukrainian Parliament. Medical reform. I agree with the head of the Health Committee, there are no medical oligarchs, it goes through the prism of the national interests of all Ukrainians, and I hope it will be successful. And finally, the 20th anniversary of Independence. Friends, everything we've built, we've been able to do in 20 years, they're starting to give up. The first aspect of national interests was the 2009 gas agreements, and we gave up Sevastopol, so what? There's no good, there's no cheap gas. Now we're starting to say that for external factors, it's called the humanitarian currency. The humanitarian currency is our national identity, language, church, including the tithe church, and that cross that was cut down on the Asold grave, and that red flag that would be thrown back into Lviv, which was only a year under Stalin's flag as a result of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. On behalf of the parliamentary group "Our Ukraine" I call for a moratorium on national interests to be announced by the age of 20. Whether you choose to become Belarus or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u24	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u25	The choice of a parliamentary majority behind you, whether to become Belarus, or to go to a country of 20. Putin's language, national identity didn't give up, take a strong example.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u26	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate letters, referrals and assignments. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one question I'd like to ask your approval and support. We adopted in our own time a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of the National Museum for the Archive of National Culture in the Ukrainian Polissa. And there was a need for this determination to make one point, namely, that the words "Ministry of Culture" should be replaced by the words "Ministry of Emergency Situations of Ukraine." And there's an appropriate draft of the decree, and it was registered back in 18.05. In 2011 And I have a big request, I say, they asked my father, they asked my mother, and I ask you to vote on these changes. Because if we open this debate right now, we're not going to vote on any details. I'd like to support this change. Please, Mikhail Kossov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u27	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think we're all going to vote for this. But I'd like to leave the Ministry of Culture. The same museums are a specific cultural field. And without experts in the field, so to speak, museum experts will find it very difficult to do so. Well, let's do it. What difference does it make if there are two ministries?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u28	John the Rabbit. I'm asking you, Your Honor, so that we can bring in the details rather than talk to him. Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u29	I propose to vote on what it is. And why? The point is that this museum is still in its original stage. And according to today's legislation, only the Ministry of Emergency Situations has the right to work in the zone. They've accumulated some cultural values there today, there's a special unit that's doing it. So today, these processes need not be disrupted. That's the problem: if we break up these processes, we won't get a museum, nothing. So I'd like to vote in the paper that you have, without any additions. And we're going to fix that mistake that we made earlier. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think we should vote as it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! I ask your support in this. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. I see we're going to something that's not going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u31	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think we're going to vote, because there's absolutely no subtext here. It simply became clear that the Ministry of Culture today lacks funds, even at the museums they have today, and there is a huge deficit. And the Ministry of Emergency Situations has these funds. Because if we really want to do something, there's this unique museum that's going to save a huge area of culture, an amazing culture, an ancient culture that, in our participation, could just disappear because of that. The Ministry of Emergency Situations has the funds, the Ministry of Culture will help them, and the museum staff will help, so I'm just asking, well, there's nothing here, if we want to do the good will that we've already voted for, we have to make this clarification, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the creation of the National Museum of National Culture of Ukrainian Polissy. It's small, I'll read: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: In the last paragraph of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order "On the Creation of the National Museum of National Culture of the Ukrainian Police" of 21 April 2011, replace the words "The Ministry of Culture of Ukraine" with the words "The Ministry of Extraordinary Situations of Ukraine". [[No. 3299-6]] And the second. The decree takes effect from the day it was published." Please be supportive. I'll put it to a vote, please. Registration number 8527. Please vote. [[10:40:41]] For 327 Decision taken. And the confirmation of Alexander Pecklusenko's words that we are working hard together. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider two instruments relating to ratification. This is the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Law applicable to Road Traffic. Registration number 0209. There is a suggestion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:41:21]] For 221 Decision taken. Reporter – Governmental Commissioner for Human Rights of the European Court of Human Rights Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u33	Thank you very much. The Honourable Head of Nationals, your opinion is proposed by the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Rights of Road Traffic. This convention was developed within the framework of the Hague Conference on Private International Law in 1971 with the sole purpose of ensuring that the right applied to traffic accidents is applied in a uniform manner in case the victim or the means of transport were from a State other than that State. which has actually become a road accident. In view of the fact that the objective is in keeping with the objective of Ukraine, we propose to join the convention. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that article 3 of this convention determines that the law applicable is the internal right of the State in which the occasion took place. This is in fact in line with both the Law on International Private Law and the relevant provisions of the Civil Code of Ukraine. In this regard, we believe that in this case the ratification of accession to this convention does not require amendments to the current legislation of Ukraine. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that membership in this convention does not require payment of membership fees. And the implementation of this law will also not require changes in the state budget of Ukraine. In this regard, I would like to support and join this convention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u34	Thank you, too. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus is head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u35	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting carefully considered the bill and unanimously endorsed its adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Joining this international convention will allow for effective and uniform application of the rights applicable to persons and property involved in or affected by a road accident to be dealt with in a joint legal order applicable to civil liability and will help to avoid conflicts arising in the resolution of the issues of the application of that right. In line with the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, the adoption of the law will not require spending from the State Budget of Ukraine and the payment of contributions, in connection with the accession to the above - mentioned international convention. The main scientific and expert office, in its conclusion, reports that the bill can be adopted taking into account their comments that the convention should operate in Ukraine from the time of ratification. In a country today, road traffic is a national disaster. All roads are lined with cemeteries. We need this convention to be ratified as soon as possible. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u36	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, are there any other considerations? If so, please sign in. If we don't, we'll vote. Well, we'll see, if they don't sign up, we'll vote. Names, please show me if you have any. There you go. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u37	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. As noted by previous speakers, this convention lays down common provisions on the law applicable to civil non-contractual liability arising from road traffic accidents. Adherence to the treaty will help to harmonize our legislation with world and European norms. With regard to the comments made regarding the date of the entry into force of the Agreement, I would like to remind you that an international treaty takes effect for a State that agrees to its obligations after it has entered into force under the conditions and in accordance with such an international treaty. And I would also like to remind you that, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the international norm has a higher legal power if it conflicts with the Constitution. As a result, we do not see any problems in joining this agreement. A party of regions will be in favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u38	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the National Party. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u39	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! If you look at the content of this convention because of the prism of the interests of Ukrainian citizens, it is entirely in the interests of Ukrainian citizens. You and I have recently witnessed many news reports about road traffic accidents, where unfortunately, they are injured, damaged by Ukrainian citizens. And in this case, it's not always, it's not always legal. So that doesn't make any sense. I want to pay attention to the article two. We always say what the convention is about. That's what I'm talking about. When it's not applied, it's important. To the responsibility of manufacturers, sellers or repairers, to the responsibility of the owner or any other person for maintaining the road open to traffic, or for the safety of those who drive it. I have no claim to our representative. But I have a question: Why was this convention written in 1971 so that it does not apply to someone responsible for the condition of the road? Because transport adventures are often due to an inconvenient road. I mean, including abroad. And I have a question. It's probably rhetorical. In 1971 the convention was signed. Today, 21 countries joined it. And I've calculated that there are only 11 countries in the European Union. Here's the question. But I don't think it should be a warning or a ban on us joining this convention, because I think it's one that benefits Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u40	Ruslan Knazević, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u41	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues! It's really Oleg Alexanderovich who made the most right observation. The point is that today, for the first time in Ukrainian history, we're ratifying a document that was signed exactly 40 years ago. And he wonders why most of the European Union's nations have come in this way. Oleg Alexanderovich, that's absolutely logical. Because they already have an internal European document that allows them to do so. This document is based on those who do not belong to the European Union. To get them involved in this, they're part of this community. Because you understand that when we join, and by the way, most countries are not members of the European Union, they are former Balkan countries and the former Soviet Union of the country. This is also true of transport accidents that will take place in our territory. Because we think it applies when we go abroad, and with us, God forbid, something happens. Because that's what's really going on. But from this day forward, we will be responsible for our internal legislation and for all transport incidents involving appropriately foreign means of transport. And that's a huge problem. And so it's a shame that there's really an exception to our road workers, to manufacturers, to repairers of transport equipment, because it's usually not the root cause of transport equipment, including serious accidents like mine, that's a serious problem with our road cover and everything that comes out of it. But this is how the convention is written. There are probably no such problems in Europe. They don't have that kind of problem yet. But I think that this problem will arise when they actively come to our territory and initiate these changes themselves to just remove these exceptions. But at this point, we really need to join in because it disciplines us and allows us to at least a little bit of unify ourselves in this regard to European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal for approval of the Ukrainian law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Rules applicable to Road Traffic Adventures. [[Registration number 0209]] Please vote. [[10:50:47.]] For 318 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I announce for consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement (Improving the transport and operation status of the road on the road to Kiev (European Corridors) between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Registration No. 0217). It is suggested that this issue be considered again by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:51:25]] For the 220. Decision taken. The reporter is head of the State Agency for Motorways, Demiskan Vladimir Fedorovich. The correspondent is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u43	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, aimed at the reconstruction and repair of 400 km of roads on six approaches to the city of Kiev by Zitomir, Odessa, Kovela, Chernigova, Opuhova and Ovruča. We need to repair it before the beginning of the Euro-2012, and the work will start in July of this year. The 450 million euro loan is included in favourable conditions for Ukraine: bet. plus 1 percent, 15 years, 4 years. The total cost of credit is much lower than the level of inflation. Contractors, as well as independent engineers, are identified in open tenders under the control of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The adoption of the law will allow for the completion of internal procedures for the acquisition of a credit agreement and for the immediate commencement of road work. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to uphold the law and accept it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u44	Thank you. Have a seat, Vladimir Fedorovich. Mr. Grigorovich, please tell me about the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u45	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of a Credit Agreement introduced by the President of Ukraine in an urgent manner. The aim of the bill is to bring to European level the state of transport and operation of six road routes on the main roads to Kiev, which will contribute to the growth of the international transit potential, and will also have a positive impact on the development of the infrastructure of the surrounding regions and the improvement of safety on our roadways. According to the Explanatory Note, the adoption of the bill requires expenditure from Ukraine's State budget to co-finance the project, and will result in a financial commitment to a loan of 450 million euros provided by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority supports the ratification of the above-mentioned Treaty by the Supreme Council. As a result of the June 14th session, the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted a majority vote: recommending that the Supreme Council ratify the agreement. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u46	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like you to sign up for the speech. Names of the national MPs, please. Pachezuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u48	Alexander Paklusenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u49	I think the adoption of this law is obvious. Ukraine is a country of smart people and not from our country. It is therefore a pity, of course, that this relates only to 400 kilometers of roads around Kiev. But in any case, it is at least 15,000 jobs, which is 1 billion incomes to the budget. We therefore clearly support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u50	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ruslan Knyazevich is on the line today. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u51	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you, Viacheslav Kirilenka, for the word. The point is that this bill, the draft loan agreement that our faction doesn't have any comments on, we're going to support it. Because, really, I realize that in the context of the Euro-2012 preparations, it's absolutely not going to be possible when the main highways leading to Kiev are in such a pitiful state. If only we could take the road from Kiev to Zitomir. We know that the actual route from Chop, Lviv Chop, is in perfect condition. From Lviv to Equine, she is well - finished. From Plain to Zitomir, in the process of completion. And from Zitomir to Kiev, it's terrible. The same goes for the Chernigs and so on. So in this respect, I don't think we're going to have any comments. The only hope that we can, in the near future, bring the profitability of our stealthodore to such a state that it can properly carry out its credit commitments so that there is no problem in any way. But given that language is going under the Euro in this case, we have decided on the faction to support the agreed draft agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u52	I understand that, Oleg Zarubinsky, yes. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u53	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'll start with the terms of the loan agreement. They are convenient. The loan is granted for 15 years with a four - year benefit period. This is very important for Ukraine. Because, you know, the peak of external borrowing, actually, is paid for external borrowing right in 2011-2012. So these first four years to the benefit -- very correctly done, the deal is signed. 15 years gives you the opportunity to actually pay off that money. One second. They say it's just the roads around Kiev, but that's not exactly true. This refers to six very important areas: Kiev-Chernigue, Kiev-Odessa, Kiev-Chop, Kiev-Kovel-Yagodin, Kiev-Smark, Kiev-Ivank-Ourq. And we're looking at this not only because of the prism, but my colleagues in the People's Party faction, these roads are an opportunity to create a normal infrastructure around them. This is exactly what a small and medium-sized business can do on these roads. You know perfectly well that the roads are life - giving. I believe that such agreements need to be signed, and to some extent such a treaty can be a model of public interest, of protection of public interest. Our faction unanimously supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u54	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. Since the faction of the Party of the Regions, no one has spoken? Yes, then Gregory Smythech. Please. Aah! Hell of a show I was doing. All right, turn off the mic, please. Unfortunately, there was a performance by Pecklusenka. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, we are preparing for the vote. The proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement (Improving the traffic and operation status of the road on the road to the city of Kiev (the Pan-European Corridors) between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (registration No. 0217) is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:00:01]] For 317 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Two factions: The "BUT" faction is "Fatherland" and the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction in accordance with the Rules require a 30-minute recess to be announced for the consultation and ready to make a statement, as planned for the break. Andrew Kožemyakin has a word for the statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u55	Dear citizens of Ukraine, the honourable ones are present! Statement of the Faction "BUT" - "Paternity": The "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood", reminds everyone once again that last week the European Parliament adopted a special resolution on the case of Yulia Timoshenko and other members of the former government. The main conclusions reached by the European Union’s highest legislative body are these. First. The European Union has acknowledged that there is still no comprehensive reform of the judicial system in Ukraine. Unsecured respect for the rule of law. The absence of a just, impartial, and independent judiciary. The other one. The European Parliament stressed that corruption and abuse of power in Ukraine remain widespread. Third. The European Parliament is concerned about the increasing selective persecution of political opposition, the disproportionateity of measures taken, especially in the case of Timoshenko and Lucenko. The resolution cites dozens of examples of the use of criminal persecution for political purposes. Having given an unpleasant but objective assessment of the events in Ukraine, the European Parliament made several clear demands to the Ukrainian authorities: to cancel the non-departure agreement in Yulia Timoshenko and not to interfere with its active participation in the political life of the country, to meet with voters and to travel to international meetings; to change the precautionary action against Yuri Lucenka, namely, to release him from custody; to reconcile Ukraine's judiciary with the European Union's legislation, which means to review fully the so-called judicial reform that turned Femidu into a personal slave of power. In order for no one to think that the European Parliament had adopted such an important resolution in the Council of the 'Beautiful Word', the MPs stressed that strengthening the rule of law is important for the signing of an association and deepening of relations between Ukraine and the EU in general. The resolution confirms the obvious link between the state of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law within the country and Ukraine’s European perspective. A country that declares its intentions not only to deepen its relationship with the EU but to become a member of the European Union should accept the European Parliament's resolution as mandatory for implementation. The European Parliament's resolution is another, very serious reminder to the Ukrainian authorities that if such a non-democratic practice continues within the country, there will be major problems with the realisation of Ukraine's European perspective. The "BUT – "Fatherland" faction requires the President to take the resolution of the European Parliament and other European Union documents in Ukraine very seriously. To implement the Resolution of the European Parliament, the Faction "BUT – "Fatherhood" requires the Attorney-General to immediately cancel the non-refoulement signature for Yulia Timoshenko. We also formally refer to the courts for immediate release from custody of Yuri Lucenk, Anatoly Makarenko, Igor Didenko, Whisperer and other political prisoners. We demand that the coalition immediately introduce democratic change into judicial legislation. So we are warning the next time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u56	Microphone, please. Finish the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u57	So, we're also warning: creating an atmosphere of fear, repression, destruction of rights and freedoms, you, the honourable representatives of the coalition, have come a long way. And it's not just us anymore, it's the whole world. Think about it so it won't be too late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u58	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Amnesty Law is being announced. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vladimir Stepanovich Malishev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u59	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. The Committee submits to you on second reading the draft Law on Amnesty in 2011. I recall that on 2 June, we adopted a new version of the basic law on the application of amnesty, which is due to enter into force on 1 January 2012. In the light of all legislative and parliamentary procedures, the following amnesty under the new law may not be adopted until the following spring. At the same time, there have been no amnesty in Ukraine for two years. More than 10,000 persons who are in detention or under investigation can be amnesty today on the basis of the existing basic law, since each of them has families, wives, children. And let them break the law, but we must not deprive them of their chance to return to society. Even so, we have every legal basis. The Committee has prepared for second reading this bill, adopted by the Supreme Council as a basis for first reading. The bill was amended 45 times. Of these: we have supported in full 13 or in part; 32 have been rejected because they are contrary to the rules of the existing basic law or the Criminal Code. In doing so, I want to reassure all Ukrainian citizens: Amnesty does not apply to those who have committed serious or particularly serious crimes. Nor will persons who have not compensated for the moral and material damage caused by their criminal acts be released from criminal responsibility. The Committee therefore proposes that the bill be adopted on second reading and generally as a law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, are we going to make amends? Amendment 3, Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, my amendments will refer to the new approach that Ukrainian citizens today demand, which is indignant at the unreparable damage caused by crime. As a result of this article, I propose that this article should read: "Freed from punishment in the form of time-limits and other non-free will convicted of deliberate crimes which are not serious or particularly serious, in accordance with article 12 of the Criminal Code, and for crimes committed by negligence that are not particularly difficult in accordance with article 12 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, provided that they are persons convicted of having committed a crime of not less than 2/3 of the sentence on which they have been sentenced, and they have, on the day of the adoption of the law, fulfilled the duty to compensate for the damage or damages they have suffered or have paid a fine imposed on the guilty person by a verdict or a court decision." [[next to Text]] I believe that amnesty should be declared only by that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u62	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u63	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u64	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, what you're saying I've done a long time ago. And look closely at the table. I repeat that those who have not compensated for material or moral harm will not be granted amnesty. It's all very clear and accurate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u65	Amendment number 3 shall be put to the vote. The author is Yuri Karmazin. [[11:08:33]] Z-11. The amendment is not accepted. Vladimir Romanovich, did you have anything to do with this? Moses, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u66	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich and Vladimir Stepanovich! I'm drawing attention to the 3rd amendment, the 5th and the 16th. Why? They're related to each other, and at 16, we're introducing an absolute legislative novel in amnesty. And the legal nature of amnesty, and the legal nature of compensation for the harm caused by crime, are completely different. And if we record today that amnesty is not subject to the amnesty of those who have not compensated, none of the prisons will be released, nor will any person completely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, next amendment, 4th. Does the Levcun insist on it? No, it's not. Carmazine, 5th Amendment. Microphone. That's the same thing!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u68	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Vladimir Mikhailovich is not the same because, apart from compensation, I am also writing about how much punishment must be given -- not less than two thirds, of the previous article. And this. There was no answer. And by the way, that's what the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has been paying attention to. I'll talk about it in the next article, in a comment. As a result of this, article 2nd puts it this way, according to the text, and then it goes, "if there were at least two thirds of the sentence that was sentenced and on the day of the adoption of the Amnesty Act, they were obliged to pay the damages or damages they had suffered or to pay the fine imposed on the guilty person by sentence or decision of the court. I believe that amnesty should be declared only to those who are already condemned. And the condemned must, without waiting for amnesty, compensate for the damage, for he has confessed his guilt, not because he has a history of amnesty.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u69	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u70	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u71	Well, Your Honor Yuri Anatolevich, we repeat: what you are saying will be in effect as of 1 January 2012 will be a new basic law. We are now adopting amnesty under the old basic law. And if we don't, here's ten people, ten thousand people will stay. How else can we explain?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u72	I'll bet on the vote on Amendment 5, Yuri Carmazin. [[11:11:28]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Amendment 6. Konovaluk, do you insist? No, it's not. Yes, Amendment 7, Yuri Carmazin. Let's, maybe, because it's conceptually not fitting in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, let us, at least, approach some theoretical principles. I want to stress right now, I know they're not going to vote for the amendment -- now the other majority, the other authorities. Because of this, maybe twice as much crime now on the streets, that's probably why people are led to it and, physically speaking, they're taking away the business. I would like to draw your attention to the conclusion of the GNEU, which states that the unconditional release from punishment of all the persons mentioned in the article is excessive -- this is their quote, because it does not take into account the threefold purpose of punishment set out in article 50 of the Criminal Code -- punishment, correction of convicted persons and prevention of new crimes, both convicted persons and others, disregarding the interests of the victim for legal satisfaction and may cause the facts of self-custulation. Such a decision devalues the very essence of criminal punishment, and it is therefore appropriate to predict that this is what they thought of it as being the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u74	Thank you. Vote 7, Yuri Karmazin. [[11:13:12]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. Amendment 8. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u75	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 8a refers to "a" in the first part of article 3, which reads: "The convicted first for deliberate crimes for which the law provides for the deprivation of liberty for a period of not more than 8 years if, on the date of their entry into force of this law, at least two thirds of the sentences for which they have been sentenced." This is exactly what I'm doing with the proposals that science and expertise have been talking about, and most scientists, how do we apply the amnesty that when we see that at least two thirds have been punished. And I don't understand why we've been rejecting and thinking, and here we have been doing amnesty for two years. That's not an explanation. We need to create conditions so that no crime can be created. Because we already have those who dig out of the cities. That's because this policy in the state is social, I mean, harmful social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u76	Vote 8th, Yuri Carmazin. [[11:14:42]] For-9 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment of the 9th Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich, she's practically repeating what's proposed in the text. Are you insisting on her? Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u77	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want us to change our approach so that we can change our approach to our perception of the world. They have changed their approach to what to do today with criminals who are fruitful, fruitful, and disclosing. And at that time, we're holding Yuri Lucenka behind bars, other political prisoners, and those who attack banks in the center of Kiev, we haven't even found them, we haven't even heard them here, we haven't heard the social reaction, we haven't heard the social response, we haven't heard the social response. So obviously let's amnesty everyone. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm taking these changes off, let's eat, let's see, we've had times when everyone got out of jail.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u78	Vladimir Mihajlovich, can I have your answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u79	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u80	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich! Amnesty will be followed mainly by old people, pregnant women and underage women. That's the answer to your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u81	Amendment 18, Catherine Vaschuk, do you insist on her? No, it's not. Valérie Konovaluk, 19? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin withdrew his repairs. Schmidt, 23, do you insist? Carmazine, copy. Konovaluk, 30, does not insist. Jacinka, 44? No, it's not. All other amendments are included. Please, the closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u82	Is that for me? Vladimir Mikhailovich, me?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u83	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u84	I ask you to support this bill, which will help people who have followed the path of correction. And it's going to be mostly about me talking again, minors, old people and pregnant women. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! Is there no objection? I'm voting on the proposal. Please, Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u86	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Once again, I draw your attention to an absolute legislative novel that has never been applied to amnesty in either the Soviet Union or an independent Ukraine. It is the responsibility of a convicted person to make amends and only then fall under amnesty. I'm stressing it out for all of us. On June 7th, we sent to the President for signature a bill amending the basic amnesty law, and there we laid down this provision that the defendant would have to compensate for the damage. The basic law on the basis of which amnesty is now approved does not contain this provision, and I was associated with the Department of Execution. If we make a condition for reparation today, of those 10,000 persons, no one will be amnesty. So it's not the Amnesty Law, it's the Amnesty Prohibition Act in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u87	Pisarenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, you and I have really approved the basic Amnesty Act, and I want to remind you that we will be following it from next year. So we supported our colleagues under that law, about applying amnesty, and really separate rules will apply, but next year. So this year, we can adopt this law and it will fully comply with the Constitution, and because we discussed it with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the explanation is so clear that the law will take effect from 2012, and here we have made this law, amnesty in 2011. And the committee is that if the President, we support this law, the head of state will sign it, 10,000 people, the elderly, the women, those who have not reached adulthood, will be released from further punishment. That's why I'm voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as the bill of the Amnesty Law. [[Registration number 7400]] Please vote. [[11:20:27]] For 294 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! So let's move on to the issues that we need to define in the agenda. No, if there's any insistence, we'll consider it. A draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 8293]] The rapporteur is Papuy, Ukrainian National Deputy, Andry Volodymyrovich. And the committee responsible is Billorus Oleg. Taras Blackwall, right? - from the committee. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u90	Blue Andrew, Party of Our Ukraine. The purpose of the adoption of this law is to denounce the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the residence of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, signed on 21 April 2010 and ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 27 April 2010. The agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the whereabouts of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine was signed and ratified against the national interests of Ukraine and against the real will of its people. The agreement has an anti-constitutional and anti-State nature, endangering Ukraine’s national and economic security, strengthening its dependence on energy resources by the Russian Federation and creating artificial increases in Ukraine’s financial and debt obligations to the Russian Federation. The agreement provides for the following: an automatic extension of the lease of a military base in Sevastopol without any time limit, which is contrary to the rules of part two of article 17 and paragraph 14 of the Transitional Regulations of the Constitution of Ukraine, which prohibits the deployment of foreign military bases in Ukraine, or the use of existing military bases for foreign military formations is temporary. Thus, the Treaty practically affirms the permanent stay of the Black Sea fleet of Russia in Ukraine. The treaty poses a constant threat to Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, allowing foreign military bases to be located in a sovereign territory, as well as engaging in potential international conflicts in the Black Sea region. The denunciation of the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the whereabouts of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine will allow.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u91	Please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u92	will significantly reduce the risks associated with Ukraine’s economic and military security. Ukraine will be able to effectively manage the areas that are now in use of the Black Sea Navy. And involving large-scale investments that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u93	Thank you. Thanks again. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Taras Cnerwell, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u94	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, the national deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered this issue, a bill by our colleague, a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Andria Paruba on denunciation, the so-called "harkovic agreements", a deal that extended the term of the Black Sea fleet in Sevastopol for 25 years, by which a reduction was made to the price of gas, i.e. the first and second articles respectively. We agreed that in this case this issue is primarily a political one, and we've been looking at it in two ways. One point relates to the political significance of these agreements, and this was the basis for our decision, since in fact, part one, article one of the agreement involved the continuation of the Black Sea fleet, and this was done in a form that raised doubts as to the constitutionality of such a decision. The second part, in our view, was very problematic, because the discount we saw, it actually didn't save us from a gas price rise: Ukraine gets gas at one of the highest prices in Europe, it doesn't see the conditions under which Gazprom works today, most of the countries of the European Union, and which are seeking much more significant discounts without any progress. And what's more, we've had serious warnings about the fact that under this agreement, they've actually been fixed at the inter-State level of the Moscow Accords, which are really bad for Ukraine. But we've taken a second look. Since there is a very serious contradiction today between the Supreme Council Rules, which provides for the possibility of the submission of denunciation documents by the People's Deputies, and the Constitution, the International Contracts Act, which does not provide for this, we have come to the conclusion that it will eventually be decided in the Supreme Council of the Hall, but the Committee has decided to support it. [[Let me finish.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u95	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u96	I'm done. maintain denunciation. It's for the decision of the hall. This is a political decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u97	Yes, Your Honor, please sign in: two for, two against. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Olesy Dony, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u98	Please pass on the word of Mikola Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u99	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Then there's Valery Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u100	European Party of Ukraine, Mikola Catherinechuk Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that there has been a mistake in this room. A tragic, strategic error may have occurred, but this error may be corrected. I'm sure that today, understanding what happened in this room, in the form that this kind of ratification took place, we actually put ourselves in a very dangerous situation. Now the question of the Black Sea fleet is not an economic issue. It is not a matter of friendship with the Russian Federation. It's a geopolitical question. And we lost this geopolitical war by this ratification. You remember what happened in this room when some were squeezing others who said that they could not do so. Today you are convinced that it was a mistake, and this mistake we have with you to correct. So I propose to support the absolute logical determination of Paris. And testifying that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has given a positive assessment and proposes to support this decision. Nevertheless, I suggest we correct our mistake with you. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u101	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u102	Thank you. Please give the word to your colleague Vernidobo.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u103	Ivan Verni Dubov, please. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u104	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I rarely speak on political issues, I hardly speak. But I can't keep my mouth shut here. How much can be speculated on the Black Sea fleet and its whereabouts in Crimea? The arguments for the denunciation brought by the rapporteur are worthless, just worthless! They are totally broken down by the legal office. Read this carefully, I don't even want to talk about it. Indeed, the Constitution establishes a special procedure for bringing such matters of ratification or denunciation of treaties to the consideration of the Supreme Council. It may be either the President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It's not like it's a separate one, even if it's a respected or disrespected MP. What the Legal Department says, I'll say again, I won't talk about it. But actually today, I'm going to say that I applaud President Janukovic Victor Fedorovich, who quickly, quickly solved the problem that was hanging out here for years. That's not just my opinion. That's the Crimean's opinion, Sevastopol's opinion. Think about it! At one time, in 1956, Russia, free of charge, made no commitments from Ukraine, gave real pearls, such territory to Ukraine! And over. [[B in m in s a l in]] And over the years, I've never publicly regretted it. And we're grateful, at least. Never demanded the return of this land, never! And we're acting like this in the hall, all the more hammocked, tell us why, explain!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u105	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u106	The bill must be rejected, as I call upon all of you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u107	Thank you. Victor Terrence, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u108	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland Party. We all remember as well as here, in Parliament, and on our super-objective television, and all over the place, we beat each other in the chest, and we said that after signing, after voting for the "harkov contracts," there would be a gas paradise on Ukrainian land. The gas haven't arrived - there's a gas hell, Russia's already putting a $500 price on it. And the gas deal, or the "harkov deal", that follows in one row with the Preyashlav Council, has brought nothing to Ukraine. At the same time, when it comes to the price of gas, let us mention that the average price for gas at the Prime Minister of Yulia Timoshenko was $232. And this is because no square meter of our territory has been given. But today’s authorities do not objectively even need the price of gas cheap, even unnecessary. Why? Because the higher the price of gas, the greater the volume of gas purchases, the more the middlemen are enriched. Last year, 540 percent of Mr. Firthash’s profits increased. And that's why all the talk about the so-called gas formula is just a fig leaf to cover up attempts to get Ukraine into the Customs Union or into other state-owned promoskow structures. But it's not even about gas. The point is that this was a signal for an attack on Ukraine, it was a signal for the ability to wipe the legs of Ukraine, and so in Ukraine the pro-Russian forces are going crazy, and that's what the chauvinist Russia is doing today. And the last. I just got word from the MP that he was applauding the President. As she wrote at the time, after the signing of the "Hark Agreements", the newspaper "The Mirror of the Week" wrote so that the President didn't even understand what he was doing, because after that, after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u109	Finish your speech, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u110	"It's all Ukrainian, I quote, "Screw of the week," not yourself, "all Ukrainian flows like blood from the consecrated veins." And when the President loses this Ukraine, he won't even notice that he lost it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u111	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion. I only have one big request to the committee. We understand what politics is up to and down here, and parliament, and MPs are politics. I have a request to the committee: make legal decisions, and the discussions may already be on any plane. That's why I'm putting to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the Denunciation Act of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Status of the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8293]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:34:10]] For 113 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – "Patkaščina" – 69, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 37, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 3, People's Party – 0, "Afterfaction" – 4. And I would ask the Secretariat to watch closely when we register such documents. Not by chance in the presentation of the chairman, the committee representative said that such documents could be submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers or the President. Please address the President and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on this matter. Honourable National Deputies, now on the draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property. It's from the same series. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Andry Mihajlovich Pavlovski. Who will be speaking from the committee, Taras Cranville? Please, Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u112	Andrey Pavlovski, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Fatherland. Respectable compatriots! In our bill, we propose to denounce the shameful agreements with Cyprus that came to Ukraine as an inheritance from the Soviet Union. Already at the close of the Soviet Union’s cadence, the old party nomenclature of Soviets began looting public property, transferring it into currency, and burying it in offshore areas. That's why they needed this deal. Think of what this covenant defines! Taxes are exempt from any income generated in the former Soviet Union and, in particular, Ukraine. These include dividends, interest rates, royalty, income from the alienation of property that is listed from one country to another. And now the big capital is criminal, it's shadowy, it's used to completely legally avoid paying billions of dollars and dollars off taxes. And I'd like to go to the owners of offshore accounts in this Parliamentary Hall, and a lot of them, we know that, finally, you get your conscience, your courage. Return your own offshore funds, invest them in your own businesses, upgrade them, create jobs, and people will be grateful. At last, stop being bitter Cypriots, become Ukrainian patriots! Put your money into the development of domestic production, into the Ukrainian economy, and people, I say, will thank you. And so it turns out that you're outlasting your own businesses like lemon, and you're hiding these funds in offshores, and this money works for another economy, for other countries. Once again, I urge you to be patriotic and denounce these shameful agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u113	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u114	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! As for the position of the committee on this matter. We haven't been able to look directly at this particular decision, it was going to go a little bit later, but it's not a new question. We've been looking at a committee of preliminary rulings that are absolutely identical. There's Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. We considered his decision before that, and the position of the committee was adopted, which was unanimous. In addition, three members of the committee: the head of the Committee, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, and I, Mr. Eugene Dobrjak, also participated in negotiations with the Cypriot side in the same way as with regard to the settlement of the matter. So the position that has already been taken, the position of the committee in this regard, is to the following points. It's number one. As I said before, there is a variation between the Law on Rules, there is something to be done here, and the Constitution and the Law on International Contracts, because the last two documents do not provide for the possibility of a draft denouncing by a deputy, and the Rules provide for this. Item two. As far as the Cyprus agreement is concerned, the agreement is inconvenient to Ukraine, the agreement that was already adopted by the Soviet Union does indeed create conditions for the withdrawal of money from Ukraine, and the agreement must be changed. But the position that is being reached by both the representatives of the government of Ukraine and this, and in the previous one, the same notes have been made by the representatives of our committee, is as follows: there can be no unilateral denunciation in this case. Cyprus is a member of the European Union, with Cyprus, except for illegal ones, there are a number of legal, serious and financial and economic operations. And we have to leave, and we're on our way to this, to the bilateral signing of the new covenant. It's done, it's actually counted, and it can be implemented in the near future, which will cancel this previous, damaged, contract. So the committee on previous similar projects decided not to support them. So in this case, given the need for a new agreement on other terms, I ask you not to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u115	Yes, thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for an exchange of thoughts, two for, two against. Please state the names of the national MPs. Natalia Královska, BUT faction, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, who are well-respected, we must understand with you that the agreement with Cyprus today is not diplomatic relations, and today it is the conditions that create the remote opportunities for the Ukrainian industry for Ukrainian entrepreneurship. Because those companies that directly have relations with Cyprus, those companies that are the founder of Cyprus, those companies that today legally, under the agreement, are legally free from tax, of course, create non-competitive conditions for those who are legally employed in the Ukrainian economy today. This raises the question of why we should undertake a pension reform to reduce the income and deficit of the Pension Fund at a time when billions of people are leaving without taxes without access to the Pension Fund in Cyprus. Why should we today reduce social standards, draw unrealistic inflation, index pensions at a time when the entire financial flow is going to Cyprus and thus deprive our pensioners of our budget opportunities for normal, adequate social standards? Therefore, agreements with Cyprus are not primarily diplomatic relations. The agreements with Cyprus are a continuation of the market conditions for the development and work of the Ukrainian industry and for the development of the Ukrainian economy. This is an opportunity to raise social standards, an opportunity to provide additional income to fill the Pension Fund and the State Budget. Therefore, we must give full consideration to this issue, including it on the agenda necessarily, on first reading. After that, as the representative of the Sectoral Committee had said, it was already possible to enter into a more literate and prepared agreement. But what we must do to get away from this agreement must be Parliament's principled position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u117	Thank you. I think just one thing: listen to what the head of the profile committee says. He said quite different. Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u118	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I am convinced that there is a time when it is still necessary to assess the huge losses of the State, the budget for such financial schemes and turnover. Investments with the island of Cyprus today constitute, in the first place, investments in the Ukrainian economy. We are well aware that this is the return of the same funds that have been taxed. I would not like to say that we can somehow influence the position of the European Union here. I know that a number of decisions have been taken, including by the European Commission, to reduce the use of fictitious financial schemes and the use of offshore zones for work, including companies, enterprises in the European Union. I am convinced that the main thing for us today is not only to denounce this agreement, but also to define the parameters in which the return of investments in the Ukrainian economy will be effective, so that our policies are guided by the very intentions that relate to the development of our domestic production, the use of the same resources for the development and increase of assets and working capital. Therefore, I am convinced that this agreement must be denounced, on which individual members of the Government have spoken, and I can only make it clear that the decision has been delayed for at least five to ten years. And you don't have to throw stones in the garden here, you've had a great opportunity, the previous authority, to denounce the agreement long ago, and indeed to ensure the normal legalization of the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u119	Yuri Karmazin is transferring the right to speak to Sergei Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u120	Thank you, Yuri Anatoliyovich, because you remember that Mr. Carmazin was making the same project, unfortunately he was not supported by the ruling majority in this Parliament. I remind you that in my previous government, I'm looking at the previous reporter, two projects have been submitted to denunciation of the Cyprus agreement. She didn't vote on that half of the room. More than that, I can tell you that in 1993, I personally took part as the head of the delegation in Nicosia in order to denounce or change the agreement with Cyprus. The agreement with Cyprus is the last agreement signed by Gorbachev, where zeros are placed on repatriation. The last, and it was you know, either for the golden party, or for, I don't know my own assets, unfortunately, we can't do anything about it. We are now told by Mr Cnerwell that Cyprus is a member of the EU. Rightly, Greek Cyprus is a member of the EU, but the precondition for Greece's entry into the EU was banned from using offshore schemes for EU countries, but not in any way from other countries such as Ukraine. I also remind you that there are many other offshore jurisdictions besides Cyprus, many more than 14. And Cyprus is to be the first example for our society, as we have to deal with disgruntled taxpayers. Two years ago, one of the largest corporations in Ukraine, a regional one, traded $5 billion in shares that were here in Ukraine for two offshore Cypriot companies. It was methodologically only for this equipment that the Ukrainian balance of payments fell by 5 billion and we got what we were getting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u121	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u122	The National Bank was to sell about $1 billion from Ukraine’s currency reserve for this equipment alone. So let's not worry about it. We've been negotiating with Cyprus since 1993. We're not going to do anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u123	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone who has no relation to the session room to leave the session room first. And secondly, I'm going to the apparatus and the State Security Authority, what this is. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Again, we transferred it to the political plane, you remember that the government had in due course submitted a draft document. But, dear fellow Members, the question is, Why did they not vote? One part sneezes at another, but understanding that they do not want to vote, including those who shout that financiers are just living and funding political parties from Cyprus. So let's make one decision. I am convinced that if the Supreme Council does not support this document, we will ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to submit the necessary documents in an orderly manner. And we're going to make a decision, and we're going to stop the political screams. Dear colleagues, let's demonstrate patriotism in practical ways. So now I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft law on the denunciation of the agreement between the Government. on the inclusion in the agenda of the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property. [[Registration number 8498]] And once again, in the absence of support, I will, on behalf of the Supreme Council, appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure that they submit an appropriate document in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Please be sure. [[11:49:16]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 1, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 66, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 37, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, "The People's Party" – 0, "Afterfaction" – 3. Once again, dear colleagues, I would like to stress that today I will sign a statement on behalf of the Supreme Council: the Cabinet of Ministers to submit a document. And you look at all the numbers so that all the people in the faction can vote. Not an eye. And if so, the process is needed, not the result. Let's not overthink each other. Dear National Deputies! Another issue we need to consider is the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Land Code on the terms and conditions for the sale of land. Vladimir Yavorowski as the author of the legislative initiative. And Gregory Kaletnik from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u124	Good afternoon, Ukraine! First. I think that every thinker in Ukraine today understands very well that without the civilized, normal market for the earth, the transformation of the earth into a market commodity for Ukraine. This is the path that many civilized countries have gone through, and there's no other way just or simply. That's the first one. The other one. The most important question is how this will be done, how it will be done. I want to remind you that industry has already been privatized in Ukraine, and we know how it was done through vouchers and other schemes. And in fact, Ukraine stopped being an industrial country a few years later, because of these companies, they've "refused" all the money that was possible. And they settled down, by the way, there on the same Cyprus, and not just on the same Cyprus, for which most of us today didn't want to vote for this scheme, a vicious absolutely complete scheme that "sucks out" from Ukraine, yes, by the way, and didn't vote. Because of the fact that there are intentions in power today, and in most cases to vote on how the changes to our budget were voted yesterday, and to vote on the earth’s market. So we're going the same way we've been through industry. The land will be taken away from the people, and then there may be a bunch of bogs and a few rich people living in this part of Ukrainian territory. Period. As a result, I propose to this law, to the Transitional Regulations, that, pending the entry into force of the laws of Ukraine on the State Land Inventory and Land Market, I would like to add: "including the creation of an automated system for the conduct of the State Land Inventory and full land inventory." Such clarifications are made in the Transitional Positions, because if this is done, if the government does, and if this is really done, we will have an automated system of running the State Land Cadastre.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u125	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u126	land inventory we can talk about that we'll still have a chance to have a civilized market on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u127	Yes, Gregory Kaletnik of the Committee. You don't? Who's gonna be on the committee? You don't? Please sign up. Bevenko, please, from the committee. Turn the microphone on, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u128	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, regarding this bill. This bill, well, is designed because it relates to land inventory, it is implemented in accordance with the Land Authority Act and is an essential ingredient in the creation of an information base for the conduct of the State Land cadastre. In this case, therefore, it is incorrect to separate land inventory from the creation of the State Land Inventory and its electronic version. In view of the above, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that there is no need for this bill. Our committee also believes that this bill is not necessary for its consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, if you need to exchange your thoughts, please sign up. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u130	Thank you. Well, I'm surprised to hear the words of colleagues, national MPs who are engaged in the very great wealth of our country -- the land, and the legislative arrangement -- that this bill is premeditated, untimely, that all issues have been resolved or resolved, or will be resolved someday. In land relations, the state is in a rather serious situation. Anyone who doesn't know, please go to the village. But it's not a thriving village, and we have one of those villages, if we have one per district, that's very good, and you're going to face something that people don't even know, a landowner who's been handed over for 49 years. And those who want to break the treaty have no right to do so either. For such conditions are laid down that neither this man nor her family know where their pie is. And so it was absolutely right for a large state importance to have land inventory carried out. So that people and the state know where the earth is in whose hands, why the true master of this earth cannot use it. It is only then that we take decisive steps. To speak of an untimely law? He's long overdue! Trust me, five years later, those people who leased their pies 15-20 years ago will even forget that they had these pies, that they had this land. I think that's a sensitive question and a dramatic question like the land issue -- we need to get to that very carefully. And this bill, the inclusion in the order of the day, the communists will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u131	Yes, you have everything, don't you? Chaplain, the MP's group, Caplienne hasn't spoken yet. Yeah, right, you're third. Now Catherine Samuel was speaking, then Caplienne, then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u132	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please give the floor to National Deputy Zadir Gennady Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u133	Who? Asshole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u134	Thank you. Parliamentary Group Reforms for the Future, People's Authority. Dear colleagues! The project proposes to supplement the grounds for the suspension of the moratorium on the alienation of agricultural land prior to the entry into force of the laws of Ukraine on the State Land Cadastre and on the land market, the provision of an automated system for the management of the State Land Inventory and full land inventory. We understand that Ukraine is the only country in the post-Radians area that does not have an electronic system of the State cadastre. However, so far it has been adopted in the first reading and the second draft of the State Land cadastre, which provides for a transparent public electronic system of accounting and access to information on agricultural land in any part of Ukraine. It is also being prepared for consideration in the first reading of the earth’s market bill. The questions of cadastra management are addressed by valid legal acts, Presidential Decree on Measures for the Establishment of a Single System of State Registering of Lands, Real Estate and Rights in the State Land Cadastre, the relevant government regulations, the Inventory of Lands of Electronic Bases, as set out in the Ukrainian Land Authority Act and the regulations. Therefore, the MP's Reform for the Future does not see the need to duplicate existing standards in legislation with a separate project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u135	Thank you. Ivan Kirilenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Then there will be George Carmazin. Dear colleagues, let's finish this consideration and then announce a recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u136	Dear Head, dear colleagues! With this bill, our faction, our political power again and again warns our colleagues against over-speeding the market for land. There are many arguments, and they are convincing. I'll name just some that may have sounded less embossed in this room and beyond. First argument. Dear colleagues, this is the only resource from the strategic resources that still remains in Ukraine. And when the price of the question is 140 billion dollars to 340, we're saying neither of it makes any sense, because this resource has no price. Next argument. This is the same resource in the world that will only cost, and the cost is accelerated. Everyone else can go cheap, wear out, and so on. This resource is valuable not only for Ukraine but also for the entire planet. Unfortunately, it is exhausting, so it will cost a lot of money in geometric progress. Third. Hunger in the world in this regard is not an exotic phenomenon, but a rigid pattern. According to FAO, 2 billion are starving. Guys, these are scary numbers, they're a trigger for social explosions. According to the same FAO, for the first time, food production needs to be increased immediately in order to avoid cataclysms by 70 percent, a fantastic figure. Ukraine, the fourth argument, including the first countries to be able to pay a high premium. Thus, reforms are difficult, unknowable, and scandalous. People don't. Is it to support agriculture that can increase less than 50 million tons of grain -- much more?Oh, my God! The dragons, by the way, are 90 percent the main food culture in all parts of the world. We're talking about grain, in this case. So I can say the following. Motivation for agriculture is unique for the first time in history. They don't ask if it's feed or food. Just sell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u137	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u138	And prices are unique. Therefore, the support of agriculture, without interference, does not even need to be paid from the budget. That's why, dear colleagues, the final argument. 25 percent of exports are agricultural products. With maximum profitability. 50 is industry and chemistry, but there is expensive gas and electricity. So we have a reform that we don't know what's going to happen or what's going to happen to the village. Let's think about it. Let's continue the moratorium for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u139	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I saw how the Science-Expert Authority carried out the wish "What can I do for you?'and watched us have it today. They've ordered an "artificial whistle" from a group of pro-Kyprus ruling majority. So it's not really just the pro-Kyprian ruler that we've created today, we've got the vote, we've got a group that's ready today. You know, we've already been prepared by the neighbouring states. Billions of dollars were prepared for the harvest of agricultural land. They're already buying Ukraine! They've already been promised. They have already been promised this by the officials of the Secretariat. Terribly, but none of you have responded to what the clerk of the President's Secretariat says this year, "We're going to start selling land." On what basis? On what basis should they introduce? Why do they promise on behalf of the State? So I thank my colleague Yavorowski for writing it down correctly. Because not only did he link with the automated system of maintaining the State’s earth cadastre, which was highlighted here, but he also associated himself with the complete inventory of the earth. Why do we not know whose land? We know it's the Marquis Carabas watching, we know what's next, but it's all national land. Open the Constitution, articles 14, 15 of the Constitution. I used to convince you, saying, "Don't sell Krudprom." Sold - and what do you have? And you've got the forbes of all those oligarchs who just crawled in there. As a result, the issue of complete land inventory has been rightly raised. I'm talking to Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Dear Victor Fedorovich, you recently signed the Anti-Corruption Act, so continuing it is an inventory of the land. Let's show you what's where, what's left over.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u141	Thank you. You can't advertise, you can't, Yuri Anatolyevich. Bo.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u142	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u143	Yuri Anatoliyovich, you can't, you can't advertise during the party's working hours. Oleg Zarubinski, please. Both property and property.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u144	Dear friends, I'm not going to repeat the pros and cons of this bill of my high-priced and highly professional colleagues in agriculture, which have just been heard, these arguments. I'd like to ask a rhetorical question because I know the answer to it. Is there a limit to hypocrisy and pharisaicism? None. There's just been a vote under the agreement with Cyprus, and among those who voted in favour are people who are not in the session room. It is a very interesting coincidence that it is these people who raise more questions about personal voting, including in bills, at meetings of the Conciliation Council. Now they were not in the hall, they voted in favour – that's what a pharisacy is all about!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u145	Yes, honourable national deputies, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending the Ukrainian Land Code on the conditions for the sale of land. Registration number 8464. Please identify yourself. [[12:05:28]] For-95 The decision is not taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, we will continue our work. Please invite the deputies to the session room. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage is being announced for consideration in part of the inclusion of the daily bill. Registration number 8496. The author of the bill, Natalia Kraljevska, please. And then from the committee, the information on the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u147	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I propose to your attention a draft law amending the Law on the establishment of a minimum of living and minimum wage. The purpose of this bill is to raise the minimum social standards in our country, increase the subsistence minimum, minimum wage and minimum pension. Dear colleagues! You are well aware that food prices, housing and utility prices have been created since the beginning of the year, resulting in inflation, which has official statistics, being inadequate and not in line with the reality of the situation, because the methodology for calculating inflation as such is outdated and thus today shows distorted information and allows the State to inadvertently index social standards and social guarantees. I therefore insist that we consider the possibility of recalculating a minimum pension, a minimum wage and a minimum standard of living. Because even according to the Ministry of Social Policy, the actual subsistence minimum in March 2011 is 1,000 81 bracelets, 87 bracelets above the official minimum standard of living. We understand, therefore, that it is essential today to revise the minimum standard of living, revise social standards, and end the Government's distribution of taxes. The responsibility of the Government is adequate social responsibilities, fair, fair standards. We see today manipulations of the growth so-called wage growth, but we demand a review of the State's social guarantees. Please consider the bill and include it on the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u148	From the committee. And the committee didn't consider it, because it's been a month as registered, respected colleagues. Please write down if you need to exchange ideas on this subject. Names of the national deputies. Paul Mokchan, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u149	Please pass the word to Corporal Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u150	Vladimir Kapliyenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u151	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" discussed this bill and proposes to support the Ukrainian law on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage. It is clear to all that the prices of food baskets and the purchasing power of citizens today have fallen below the plentou, that is, we realize that it is impossible to survive on such money. I'd like to remind you that for today's month-to-month budget, according to the Ministry of Social Policy, this level is set to 1 thousand and 81 bracelets. There's going to be some increase in this cost to 1 000 242 in terms of the category, but that doesn't really solve the question. I would like to remind you that the subsistence minimum, or the food basket in particular, is a basic social indicator on which the entire social basket that citizens have today is based. And if, today, a Ukrainian man has one shirt for one and a half years and two pairs of socks for one and a half years, if we have on a day to live one person for 146 grams of bread and 16 grams of oil, butter, forgive me, how can we survive this? Of course, this social standard needs to be raised. In view of this, the bill proposes to set a minimum of living in the figures proposed by Ms. Royal today, we fully support this. Because this approach is positive and will be the first step towards raising social standards. The MP for Future Reform Group believes that there will be a compromise between the needs of the average Ukrainian, on the one hand, and the financial and economic and material capabilities of the state. And the state in this case must, even obliged, intervene in the situation so that every citizen may feel like a citizen of a free, consummate, independent state and not be here in reception and slave of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u152	Natala Krávsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention once again: 78 per cent of Ukrainians, according to the UN, live below the poverty line. We are today one of the poorest countries in Europe. And if we do not review social security and social standards for people, we understand that consumer demand is falling, that people today are able to meet their financial obligations. Today, more than 50 per cent of people are not confident that they will be able to pay for housing and utility tariffs. This is leading to a total payout crisis, a collapse in the financial system. According to the overall world quality of life rating, Ukraine dropped from 68 seats per year to 73 seats and settled between Namibia and Botswana. With our decisions today, we can give people a positive signal that the State is not only pursuing anti-social policies, but also thinking about people, and is ready to share the income of the budget that exceeded 50 per cent of the income of last year. So if we have an increase in budget income, why is this income fairly not redistributed and adequately indexed in the revision of the minimum standard of living? Dear colleagues! Think about it. We haven't had a consumer basket in our country in 10 years. There is no such thing in any civilized country in the world. But within a few years of his stay in power, Mr. Tigipco was able to prepare an anti-social pension law but failed to revise the consumer basket. We therefore consider, first of all, the revision of the consumer basket, the indexation of social standards, as of 1 June 2011, the subsistence minimum of 1 000 bracelets, 50 per cent of the pension raise, the redistribution of the income of the budget, and only then any reforms in the country. Stop those experiments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u154	Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin. For those who say there's no Carmagine, I want you to know that there's always been, there's always going to be Carmazin. That's the first one. And the second. I want us now, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not to be absurd. The entire coalition, which supports the lame government of Azarov, which was quite rightly proposed to retire yesterday, now there are 55 people in the hall. I looked, I counted from above, from here, well, 56, with irony, you see, Chechtev speaks. And I'm sad that you, 55 people, determine the fate of the state. I understand you're going to Cyprus, but this offer that the Royal One makes today is correct. Whether it is fully justified or sufficient, dear Mrs. Natale, when you offer working persons a minimum of 1,270 dollars for living. I'll say no, in 1270, that's not the amount either. But this government has given you no other power, this government has given you no opportunity. And these 55 people who are now speaking out for most of it, although they should be at least 226, you know, they have to set it up in the State Budget Act and pay the minimum wage you predicted in article 2: of June 1, 1270. But yesterday we were not even allowed to participate in the adoption of amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget Act. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich? We weren't able to take part in this discussion yesterday because it was another dusting of money, another handout for our people. As a result, this law should be adopted in the first reading, and there let Kabmin appear, let him give his own conclusions, all other things.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u156	Honorable colleagues, discussion of the subject. From the faction of the Party of Regions, please Chechetov, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, the speaker is absolutely right. See, at the last European Parliament meeting, where a decision on Ukraine was taken, 10 per cent appeared. It is therefore not all that is shining in Europe that is good for Ukraine. 37 people, 37 people only out of 700, 37 voted. You can't see it at all, the 37. Therefore, what is praised in Europe is not all good for us. Now the second one. Today is the day of the opposition. But it's just a shame when we sacrificed the day and there are five people sitting here from the opposition. These are your bills. Who are you kidding? Who are you kidding? Or is it just for the process, for populism? So, of course, with all this nonsense, we will not participate in such a spectacle. Come here once a week on your day. Well, I'm ashamed of you. It's just embarrassing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, I understand that we can read each other's notes for a long time, but I'll tell you what. I remember not so long ago when about the same offer was made regarding the minimum of living. And then we were told that we were speaking out of state. This decision cannot be made from the State’s standpoint. Now, what's interesting is when in power -- in state positions, when there's no power -- then we're talking about antisocial politics. I have a big offer, my dear colleagues, let's move forward, vote for this decision, and at the same time propose to the Cabinet of Ministers to assign, as a minimum, the vice-premier of those who offer such a minimum of living and an increase of 50 percent of pensions with the guarantee that this will be done. I think the government may, and must, take such a step. People see and know where the money is. So let's take them and vote. So I propose that, honourable colleagues, vote in favour of joining the agenda of this project with the next action. Vote, please. I didn't name it. Please! No, no, no, Carmazin. Dear colleagues! Replica is given when a colleague is offended. Please, vote, vote, vote. Vote, vote, respectable colleagues! Vote, I vote, I vote. Let's vote, that's it. And for the vice-premier together. [[12:48:26]] For 106 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. [[There's no motive, well, no, Natalia Yuriovna]] Regional Party – 0, “BUT – Fatherland” – 51, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 14, Communists – 22, “Reforms for the Future” – 15, “The People's Party” – 0, “Afterfractional – 4”. So Adam and I voted. Dear National Deputies! The draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is announced for consideration in part of its inclusion in the agenda. [[on the application of precautionary measures of removal under guard]] [[Registration number 8626]] The author is Grinczak Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich. And from the committee, who will be speaking? I don't see Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u159	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, TV crew! Before the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code. The current edition of the article of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the application of precautionary measures in the form of custody and the order of his prosecution does not contain clear rules which lead to the spread of cases of abuse by law enforcement authorities, unmotivated arrests during criminal prosecution and the actual punishment of persons who are not legally found guilty. The European Court of Human Rights in Harchenko v. Ukraine has acknowledged such human rights violations in pretrial detention cases that require a systematic and legislative solution. According to the European Court of Justice’s decision, five months was recommended in February of this year to remedy the situation. Your point is to amend the Criminal Procedure Code in some articles. This will allow us to resolve the existing differences between the rules set out in the separate articles of the Criminal Procedure Code, which will ensure that the participants in the criminal process have the same legal position in the practical application of the rules of the Code. Ukrainian citizens will receive a clear legal formula to protect the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. Standardizing pretrial criminal investigations and humanizing detention conditions at pretrial detention facilities during temporary deprivation of liberty will contribute to decriminalization of society. The standards proposed for adoption are in line with the rules of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, its fundamental freedoms and the direction of the implementation of the specific provisions of the European Council's action plan for Ukraine 2008-2011. This does not require adoption, these legislative changes, changes to the budget. The only thing I'd like to add is actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u160	Turn on the microphone. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u161	The current Criminal Procedure Code actually leads to Ukraine losing quite a number of cases before the European Court of Human Rights precisely because these provisions of our Criminal Procedure Code do not correspond to the provisions of a convention signed and ratified by Ukraine. And the last is what we're proposing to consider the new Criminal Procedure Code. But we need to understand that the adoption of the new code will most likely be, for God's sake, by the end of this year, perhaps the following. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u162	Yuri Mikolaiovich, thank you. Someone from the committee will be speaking? None. Dear colleagues, please sign up for two for two, two against. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. National Deputy Ariev, I beg your pardon. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Then Volintz will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! Compared to Europe, our legislation is going to be very bad because it's going to take precautions. And despite the gravity of the suspect in the crime, people usually prefer to be kept in the hospital immediately because it makes them more comfortable, much more comfortable, easier, and no one thinks about human rights. Why this is happening because today’s criminal justice in Ukraine has been available to us ever since it was criminal and protected ideology. Now it's protecting some kind of authority or someone's private interests, but at least it's protecting the law. In Europe it is used as an exceptional, non-punishment, as an exceptional measure. There's a vast majority of them, or house arrests, or non-departure subscriptions. We have a unique application of the non-refoulement subscription and no such thing as home arrest, even though it is provided for by Ukrainian legislation. Today, not even thousands in Ukraine, and tens of thousands of people have been in the WHO for years, awaiting judgment, and the articles for which they are accused are often not such that they pose a threat to society. So let's finally take a practical step towards Europe. You, the reverend Party of Regions, you want to say all the time that you're going to Europe. Europe requires us to soften the system of precautions. Well, come on, let's see if you can take a practical step in the direction of Europe, not just talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u164	Mikhail Volintz gives Andrew Pavlovski a speech, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u165	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Dear compatriots, the bill of Yuri Grimchak is aimed at humanizing the Criminal Procedure Code. It is in line with the last decisions of the European Parliament and is aimed at softening, in relation to those people who are on pretrial investigation, to whom a precautionary measure such as custody is applied, namely, their right to – and more specifically prescribed – a short-term date. In addition, it is prescribed in detail when a person is able to do so. it's being clarified, arrested. Because it's really a last resort. In European countries, man - made murderers and cannibals are being held in custody. I want to. And to all sorts of maniacs. And we have people in economics sometimes, political accusations there are at stake for months and sometimes for years. By the way, according to the same European Parliament, 20,000 people are in prison. The investigation was over, the trial was closed, and people could spend weeks, months without a basis. And for example, a living example. Hannah Sinkova, who is politically imprisoned, ended her sentence on May 29, but she is still a 19 - year - old child in prison. And the court did not continue to keep her under guard. And the chief of the Kyiv prison refuses to let her go because he says: “Give me a special, separate decision on the release of this child. The same was true of Yuri Lucenk. When his previous imprisonment ended, documents were brought to trial, and Yuri Lucenko had been in prison for six months. So be human! Be merciful! Let us soften the Code of Criminal Procedure with regard to those whose guilt has not yet been proved.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Now, please, Mikhailo Chechetov. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u167	Indeed, we are going to Europe, we need to adapt our legislation to European values, European standards. But once again, I want to focus on unnecessary speculation. Well, 736 people in the European Parliament. Of the 736 people, only 37 voted in favour. Well, I understand 350 people voted, 400. 37 people voted since 736! Well, I would if I were you. It's just a shame to speculate on that. This is a handful of people, where's the European Parliament? The European Parliament is at least half. That's why it's the first one. And the second. The whole world is fighting crime, drug trafficking, illicit arms trafficking, corruption. And here we are walking in the chest, foot in foot with European countries, and we will continue to walk with them. Thank you. And we're going to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, I'm asking you, well, please, there's no reason to say it! I'm just gonna say, fellow officers, I have a big request for you. Let us respect the recommendations, the conclusions, the decisions of the European Court of Justice and we will make with. I apologize, the European Parliament, we will make the right conclusions. I think that from any recommendation, from any decision, from any Ukrainian approval as a state, we as politicians should deliver what we should continue to do, how we should continue to operate in such a normal, civilized river basin. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda. the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the application of precautionary measures of removal under guard]] Registration number 8626. Please vote. [[12:59:52]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, it is now suggested that you consider the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on the free acquisition of a second higher education]] Registration number 8449. The rapporteur is the author of the Vladimir Yavorowski bill. From the committee, please, who will be there?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u169	Good afternoon, Ukraine! Thank you for being still alive. Article 4 gives Ukrainian citizens the right to higher education. It's okay, it's all written here. The only thing that has not been taken into account is the standard that has, by the way, existed long ago, even in Soviet times. Which happens, by the way, today, but it's not fixed in the law, but it's fixed in the annual or not even the annual admission exam. In some cases it is, in other cases it is. Because of this idea of my bill, it is clear in the Higher Education Act in the 4th article that gives the right to some, I stress, some Ukrainian citizens get a second education. It sounds like this, and I'll read, "The Ukrainian citizens have the right free of charge to receive higher education in the second direction or speciality in public and municipal educational institutions, if they have lost their ability to perform their duties in service or in office at an earlier level, as confirmed by the findings of the medical and social expert commission." I specifically introduced there to be a medical-social expert commission, so there wouldn't be any abuse, so there wouldn't be any evidence there or anything like that. Once again, there's absolutely nothing unusual about this norm because it's been around all the time. It's just that the time has come when people have, especially that of course, it's about the disabled or the people who have lost their jobs in their first profession to make sure that it's in the law, that it's guaranteed to them, not that it depends on the tobacco industry's will, that it's going to give in there, and so on. I mean, I'm here to make sure it's in the bill. And I think it's hard for me to look at your faces and it's hard to see.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u170	Microphone, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u171	I'm looking at your faces and I want to see one that doesn't vote for this humanistic norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u172	Please, Your Honor, is there a need to discuss this matter? Please sign in. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u173	Carmazine, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u174	Yuri Carmazin, microphone, or from the rostrum, as you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u175	Yuri Carmazin. I thank Volodymyr Moysik, and we wanted to make a single line, particularly to Chechtov's colleague, to explain that, firstly, the deputy director of the faction should not be insulted by European institutions from the rostrum of the Ukrainian Parliament, it is humiliating for the Ukrainian Parliament, not for the European institution. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to remind you that the difference between the regulations used in most European states and our Constitution is that how many people came there, most of those who came, who were interested in questions and who were making decisions. And we have the Constitution for most of the constitutional composition of the Ukrainian people's deputies. So please don't confuse these two things, it's a little elimination of constitutional illiteracy, so far it's happening between us and Moses. Now, about this bill. Dear National Deputies! The law of the national deputy of Yavorowski is absolutely correct. I'll remind you that we're not currently having a discussion in society, but we're second to those people who have received one education for free and now they're being told, or they're being paid back, and they're being forced to do things. It forced me to ask the Attorney General, the Commissioner for Human Rights, the head of the Committee on Science, Education, Legal Policy and the Minister of Education. And I got the answer that, by this time, the Cabinet Order of 22 August 1996 on the order of employment had not yet been cancelled, although it was contrary to both the Constitution and the two decisions of the Constitutional Court. This proposal by Yavorowski, who is in the process of developing the Constitution, is absolutely correct, for it is only when a person is entitled to a second education when.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u176	Microphone, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u177	Thank you. Only when she is unable to work in another specialty is she totally humane, right. And I would ask everyone, even those who don't read European laws and who don't exist in Europe, to vote in favour. Thank you. It's not a political bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u178	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u179	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues of the National MPs, in the MP's Reforms for the Future group, has carefully considered this bill, it's a short little legislative act, but it's not populist, it's really realistic and reflects the real existing problem. Let's say that a person has received a higher education for specialty and only a specialty that requires certain physical data, a pilot, a fire specialty, some military specialties, and so on, eventually, specialties that have to do with good, good vision, other health conditions. In an independent state of health, a person cannot work in these positions, the current situation that the legislature is putting two factors in front of him: either a person has to look for funds and at his own expense, for money, to get a second higher education to work in another specialty, or this person, and an official of an enterprise where he wants to go no longer according to this education, closes his eyes to the fact that a person will work without proper competence, without education in another specialty, very often we have a second scenario. And people who have acquired, let's say, flight education, military education, and so on, unless they're doctors, but it's lowering the level of competence, lowering the level of performance of their duties, it's actually within the limits of criminal crime and officials, and these people. And the bill is proposed for a very narrow category of people who, in health conditions, have lost their ability to work in the field of higher education, to gain another free higher education, and to work normally for the public benefit, without violating legislation, and without spending the costs that these people generally have just been really lacking. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u180	Yes, Andrew Pavlovsky, one minute from the faction, please. Then there's Alexander Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u181	The Yulia Timoshenko faction, Fatherland, proposes to support this, another humanist, humanist bill. Because, indeed, if a person in a state of health has lost the opportunity to work for his first higher education, he needs to be given the opportunity to receive a free education for which he can work and support his family. And it's really not a political, non-commercial bill. And I'm saying it on purpose for the Cypriot majority to understand it. We need some human laws, just like the previous ones. Because there's grenades and you can, you know, different lives, you can end up sitting at the S.E.O.S. So you're going to want humanity, so why don't you now vote for people who are sometimes illegally imprisoned for months and sometimes for years before being tried? And these people, according to the European Parliament, are 20,000 people. You immediately voted earlier to give them the right to go out or have a short date. Think about how human you are, whether you are human at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u182	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u183	Dear colleagues! This law, in terms of philosophy, goals, concepts, deserves attention, as does many others. But it's the law, it's not posters, it's not slogans. This is the law you are proposing to make a concession. We don't have any reindeer guides in the country today. Give the reindeer guides a break, and tomorrow they'll be 10 or 11 million, I guarantee you. So any benefit, it has to be measured, it just has to be measured with what might happen. I repeat, we support the fact that both your wish and your suggestion that a person who has lost the opportunity to work in his main profession should have and be entitled, but that is the right. There is a need to remove the corruption scheme. Therefore, it is not possible to vote in the form in which the law is passed. But we support the idea ourselves and come up with such an initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, is that all? Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to Article 4 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act is put to the vote. [[on the possibility of obtaining a second higher education free of charge]] [[Registration number 8449]] Please vote. [[13:10:59]] For 128 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Regional Party is 0, "BUT" is 63, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 18, the Communists are 25, "Reforms for the Future" is 20, the People's Party is 0, "Afterfaction" is 2. Dear colleagues, I have factions all in the Supreme Council the same, I love and respect everyone, and I want to be normal in our work rhythm. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] [[Registration number 8434]] Valerius Suškević, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u185	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, in their time, along with colleague Taran-Terreen, have written the Act to amend certain legislation on recognition, granting public social assistance to low-income families and disabled persons. The bill was passed, and the Cabinet of Ministers accordingly passed a similar, similar bill amending the Law on State Social Assistance for Lowly Families. As a result of the drafting of the 2 bills and the breakup of these 2 bills, the draft was accidentally deleted in a sentence of the law, where underprivileged families, which include adult children who study in general educational institutions, reach 23 years of age and do not have their own families, have the right to receive. a form of assistance under other conditions. Unfortunately, during the process, the word "general educational institutions" was lost. In fact, it is now about restoring justice and technically correcting the law. And make one word: "university schools." Because the situation is that children in a given category in low - income families have lost the opportunity to take advantage of these opportunities in some cases. The adoption of the project that we are discussing today does not require any additional funding from the State Budget. The main scientific and expert office has made no comments to this bill. The committee proposes to adopt this bill as a whole, because, in principle, it is more technical and takes into account the situation that has arisen after the two bills have been drafted and collided in the past. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, why don't we listen to the author and head of the committee and put this bill into the agenda so that we can look at it when the time comes and make a decision? It's just about clarifying the day form of learning. And there's no politics on this issue. I ask your support, Your Honor, to take a decision on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Low-Supplied Families. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] [[Registration number 8434]] Please vote. [[13:15:00]] For 327 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. That way we can't follow the Rules. Let's do that. Come on. Well, you can't break it. Tomorrow. No, we can only consider it at the evening session. We're in the middle of a day's work, you know? So we can put it on tomorrow and consider tomorrow, no problem. Dear colleagues! It is proposed to consider the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on the introduction of new institutions for the protection of the rights of taxpayers, the promotion of small business development and priority sectors of the economy, the eradication of corruption and the rule of law]] [[Registration number 8398]] The author of the bill is Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk. Please, Arseny Petrovich. And from the committee, I would ask them to express their point of view. Moreover, the bill was registered on 18.04, a long time ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u187	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The need to amend the Tax Code does not call anyone into question. The government has registered its bill, which unfortunately is not being considered. There are several alternatives. The bill, which I am introducing, has been in operation for several months. It's 10,000 entrepreneurs, it's about 100 round tables and it's a system law that qualitatively changes the tax system. I would like to recall only the results of the introduction of the Tax Code, which was voted in this Hall and supported by the government of Ukraine, minus 230,000 jobs in the country. Reductions in employment, decreases in business, decreases in the number of registered subjects What I'm offering. First. I propose that the Ukrainian Parliament be given at least some authority to regulate entrepreneurial activities. It was on the basis of Parliament’s decision that he was appointed to protect the rights of taxpayers. The other one. I suggest you reduce the amount and size of taxes. And there's a whole scale. First of all, it's about reducing taxes on added value and income taxes. By the way, this was provided by a program of candidate to the Presidents of Ukraine, Janukovitch Viktor Fedorovich. Third. I suggest you cancel the tax policy. Four. I suggest you cancel the deposit tax. Fifth. I propose that the discriminatory ban on legal persons should be lifted, including the cost of purchasing goods from business entities in gross costs. Fifth. Specify the automatic refund mechanism for the added value. Six. Simplify the terms of the tax payer’s voluntary registration. Seven. Establish a standard by which the moratorium on the application of fines was extended until 31 December 2012. Eight. Cancel administrative detention of property. Nine. Cancel actual checks. Ten. & Decrease the number of reasons for pre-planned tests. Eleven. Shorten the deadlines for such checks. Next. Reduce fines from 25 to 10, from 50 to 25, and from 70 to 50 percent. Next. Cancel a rule allowing you to decide on the purpose of the check. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u188	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u189	And there are a number of suggestions that will really and qualitatively change entrepreneurial life in the country. I ask you to include this bill in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the exchange of information on this bill. Names of the national MPs, please. Paul Mokchan, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u191	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, from one census by Arsenius Yatzenuk, we see the need for the changes that our economic situation requires. And that's why I urge everyone to listen to the problems that are actually our, in fact, national, national economic problems. And I will personally support Arsenius Yatsenyuk in making these changes urgent and immediate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u192	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u193	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Leapina, group "For Ukraine!" I want to thank Arsenija Petrovich, he has actually introduced a comprehensive and very good bill in which he has actually listed all the points that have existed and have existed since the introduction of the Tax Code, which seriously impedes the development of entrepreneurship. I want to pay attention to just a few of the most violent ones today that are causing real, not nominal, tension in the entrepreneurial environment. The first is tax police work. This has been talked about, but unfortunately, its mandate under the Tax Code has only been strengthened, although everyone who has travelled to the presidents has actually promised us to do something about it and reduce such criminalization of matters of tax control. The second question that everybody is concerned about today is actual testing. From the looks of actual tests, for no reason at all, you can basically tear down any small enterprise. And on the one hand, there's a moratorium on these checks, and we've heard from the mouth of the tax officer that he personally gave the task of especially small business not to check with actual checks, and on the other hand, we have thousands of complaints from entrepreneurs that one thing, the commission of the tax officer's head, and the other thing, the letter of the law that allows it. And these tests happen, and they happen completely unfairly, and on the basis of corruption, they usually do. The third is finally an administrative asset arrest. We talked so much about this when we adopted the Tax Code, and it seems that all the deputies agreed that today it's a completely inappropriate action, it shouldn't be in the code, but it is. And I want to tell you that there are still a lot of questions that entrepreneurs have raised that are reflected in the Yatsenuk bill. But what I'm saying is that even these three questions would be enough to make a substantial improvement, actually, in the atmosphere that exists in the entrepreneurial environment today. And don't be surprised if entrepreneurs go out on the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u194	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u195	First of all, it's caused by what they're feeling today is a lot of pressure despite all the statements that are being made in this room. I therefore believe that the inclusion and voting of this bill should be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u196	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The dream of any authority is to be invisible to society. Insensibly, one of the social stragglers is the authority. The name of this middle - class social divider. If the middle class is satisfied with the rules of the game, society is good. In European countries where we knock and all the doors, 40 percent of the middle class ensure the stability and abundance of Europe. 40 per cent is the consumption of population weight and 60 per cent of the gross domestic product of the European Union. The second middle class is small and medium-sized business. Today, Ukraine is saved by the fact that, by mentality, a large part of society or some part of society considers itself worthy of being considered a middle class. But there is a huge gap between illusion and reality. Today’s authorities have relied on large capital. That's good, but it's very vulnerable and dangerous. We have a large capital base on raw materials. In this direction, the development possibilities of the state are exhausted because they rely on the enormous energy consumption and the resources we have. Dear colleagues! When it thundered, sorry for the Russianism, the 2008-2009 crisis, what happened to our big business? He's, uh, he's down, I'm sorry. He's down. And what did they have to do to save exports because we are an exporting country with our raw materials? They had to devalue the bracelet. Friends! God forbid, again crises, again we're on raw materials, again at huge gas and energy costs, what do we have to do? Don't prove it to God. This is the beggarlyness of the entire nation. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u198	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u199	Well, certainly include such things, reduce administrative pressure and influence, and allow people themselves, those who are capable of earning themselves a piece of bread, and, God forbid, to give others a job and a piece of bread, or perhaps a piece of bread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, from the faction, one minute, Mikhailo Chechetov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u201	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Well, really, the ideas that Arsenia Petrovich has here are brilliant, like all the other proposals that he represents are brilliant ideas. This once again underscores, right now, that he is a real leader of the opposition and someone else. But if you look at the adequacy of the way these brilliant ideas are translated into this bill, they are inadequate and there are no calculations, no calculations. And even if you look superficially, I think it will lead to a budgetary imbalance, both local and public, it's a budget deficit, and it's just a financial collapse in the country. Therefore, I think that the Government will accept these brilliant ideas of the leader of the opposition of Yatsenuk and translate a little into another form of document. We'll look into it and we'll take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on the introduction of new institutions for the protection of the rights of taxpayers, the promotion of small business development and priority sectors of the economy, the eradication of corruption and the rule of law]] Registration number 8398. [[13:26:26]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Regional Party is 0, "BUT" is 56, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 19, the Communists are zero, "Reforms for the Future" is 2, the People's Party is 0, "Afterfaction" is 1. Dear colleagues, the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to Article 154 of the Code of Taxation of Ukraine is being considered. [[on the exemption from taxation of the profits of war veteran enterprises]] Is there a Roman Zabzaluk? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, we are bringing to your attention the draft Act amending article 154 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on the exemption from taxation of the profits of war veteran enterprises]] In accordance with article 20, paragraph 3, of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantees of Their Social Protection, of War Veterans, in which at least 60 percent of the average number of workers are participants in war and war participants are exempt from payment of income tax. The standard is valid. However, the benefit defined by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans is not included in the Tax Code. Differences cause fair complaints from veterans and combat participants, creating social tension in the labour community. Numerous appeals have continued to be made by veterans of the Great Homeland War, war veterans of all levels of government. So, given what is quite recent, if you remember, here was the feasting and rallying of Afghan veterans under the walls of the Supreme Council, which was given to the Head of the Supreme Council by an appropriate appeal, including to the national deputies of Ukraine, for the restoration of social justice. We insist that you and I accept these amendments, the corresponding changes, and thus restore their constitutional rights, largely. At the same time, I am drawing attention to the possibility that some of these and the phrases may be echoing again that we are bearing fruit here. So I want to make a statement. Unfortunately, in large numbers, we have given birth to some of them as a result of the adoption of such inadequacies. It's a criminal oligarchy that robs this state and this budget. And in large numbers, let's mention at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u204	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u205	Literally, these changes that have taken place today in Ukraine's budget, there are 107 million dollars aimed only at keeping Konchi Sleep and Desert Vodice, and at the libraries there are 97 million dollars in total. Let's still support this category of Afghans, veterans, members of the fighting that today need protection from the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the pro and anti-legislative initiative. Names, please, of the national MPs. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u207	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! You know, when you read the title of the bill, it's kind of inappropriate to press a red button. Yet, the fact remains that I and our group, with a sense of content, were motivated to oppose this law. The first is about protecting war veterans, and the article is about what we can understand about the veterans of the Great Homeland War. They are 27 years old, 84 years old. Where will you find an enterprise where these people can actually work for 60 percent? It's totally ridiculous. The second point is that this is consistent with the Tax Code to another law, the Social Status and Protection of War Veterans Act. It is the laws that must be translated into the Tax Code, which clearly states that in the part where they do not conform to the Code they should change. Third moment. As far as Afghan veterans are concerned, these people have to be supported, but there are two nuances. Nuance's first, or specifically by making changes to this article, we create legitimate, legally balanced application of this law to those involved in fighting in Afghanistan, in Angola, in other hot spots. In our view, there's going to be some sort of artificial attraction here, and that's a certain problem, obviously we have to think about what the other application of this bill is. The second moment, or should it be in a way that proved its corruption in Ukraine, and especially the demonstration was in Russia, remember that story with Lychodia, with his firms, with the mafia that came up around it, with the conflicts, the killings, and so on, whether it was in the economic sphere of an enterprise where they were just massively recording Afghan veterans to provide such benefits. It may be better to take care of their social benefits, at last, to provide for them and not to abuse them, not to create them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u208	Dear colleagues! I understand, well, one of the factions is clear, please. Will Yuri Prokopchuk be there? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u209	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland." You know, when there's flag speculation in this room, on account of the beginning of the war that provokes society, let's say that what happened in Lviv, whatever caused the arrest and once again political repression of the tridents, Freedoms, others, let's at least do something specific for those people who have few left and many who have fought in other wars, right, it's also Afghans, those who have been in African countries, who have done their duty as a parent, let's do something concrete. And you don't have to speculate that for some there's going to be so, there's little left, let's take a concrete step, let's support in order to actually take this step of goodwill. And the budget allows us to do that, but we just have to return 270 billion dollars from Cyprus to Ukraine and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u210	Nobody insists anymore? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending article 154 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on the exemption from taxation of the profits of war veteran enterprises]] [[Registration number 8432]] [[13:34:16]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we now need to determine the draft decree on the 50th anniversary of the death of Valentin Felixovich of War-Jasenecki, Orthodox saint, scientist, doctor-surgeon, motorist, archbishop of Crimea and Simferopolski. [[Saint and Confessor of Luke]] [[Registration number 8476]] National Deputy of Ukraine, Peter Yushchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u211	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Peter Yushchenko, "Our Ukraine." The decision-making project is in your hands, let me tell you some of the bright episodes of Saint Luke's life. Luke, the glorified saint, the scientist-surgeon, the priest and confessor of the twentieth century, the archbishop of Simferopolski and the Crimean. [[War-Jasenecki]] He graduated from the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Kiev, St. Vladimir. Earth doctor who participated in the Russian-Japanese war as part of the Kyiv Red Cross infirmary in Chita. Professor of Central Asian State University, Tashkent City Hospital. In 1921, he became a priest by challenging the general fear. In 1923, he received a black haircut, was placed in Bishop's hands, 10 days later arrested. This is where the queen’s crossway begins. The future ruler said at the time, "I loved the suffering that so wonderfully cleanses the soul." Boutirka, Krasnoyarsk, Turuhanski, region, ice cream at 60 degrees Fahrenheit [60 ° C] In Turhansk, by the way, for the first time in the world, the kidney will be transplanted 10 years before the Ukrainian John Crowe did. In 1926, exile ends, working in Tashkent. Back in the 1930s, back in prison. Archangel. 1934 Tashkent is headed by the Institute of Emergency Surgery. In 1937, he was arrested. interrogation. During the day, 10 investigators passed through him. In 1940, exile to the village of the Great Murga in Siberia. During the war, Klim Voroshilov is approached by offering his profession to the needs of the front. Headed to Krasnoyarsk in the evac hospital. It's operating day and night. Wounded fighters salute the surgeon with crutches and straight legs that he cures.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u212	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u213	was awarded the first-degree Stalin Prize and the Medal of Good Works in the Great National War. The death of War-Jasenecki in a sleigh by Bishop Simferopolski and Crimean on July 11, 61. In 1995 it was canonized by the Orthodox Church. The Holy Archdiocese Council of the Orthodox Church. In the year, the priest Luke was introduced to the Council of New Men and Confessors for universal worship. On weekends, hundreds of surgeons and hundreds of priests gathered for the Trinity, and 106 delegates came from one Greece. The Order of Saint Luke has been established, which has been awarded to many of our surgeons and our foreign surgeons, including the chief surgeon of Ukraine, Fomin Petr Dmitrovic. When we have voted in favour of this decree, we will say to the soul: 'The Holy One of Luke, pray for us."..
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u214	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u215	Good afternoon, Ukraine! Everything that a member of our committee, Peter Yushchenko, has said is absolutely true, in which no one seems to doubt. In the person of Valentina Felixovich of War-Jasenecki, the saint and confessor of Luke, two very often conflicting fates came together. In one person, in one soul, in the same mind. This is one part of an extremely bright world life where man made a colossal breakthrough in ferocious surgery, which had a colossal later meaning both during World War II and in general. A man who wrote a lot of scientific papers. And the second part is his spiritual, priestly life. You can imagine when in the early 20s, in fact, he almost quits medicine and goes through, gets a spiritual dream. The man knew that he would be arrested, and he was going for it. So it's an amazing character, amazing devotion and faith, and loyalty, of course, to people. Because of this, we really have to mark this man, bring him back to history. Because he was exiled for a long time, he was forgotten, he lived in deep Siberia for several years, and he worked as a surgeon in a tiny hospital, and so forth. So there's no doubt about it. Why the committee refrained from supporting the draft decision. The thing is, the thing about the marking is, I emphasize, the 50th anniversary of death. My colleague Yushchenko is right about the fact that on the priestly line it is really a date and indeed the church celebrates the days of death and so forth. But we accept, as it were, a civil document, a civil document, a secular document. And that's why we think that if we do, of course, we're going to go through the marking and the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u216	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u217	I didn't fit in a bit. And the date of death and the date of birth, we're really going to overload that. That's why you decide. I've informed you of the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u218	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who will speak on this matter? Please sign up, I can see they're speaking. Sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikhail. Passing the right to Boldirevo, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Yuri Carmazin, as always. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u219	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, this is the very case where I fully and fully support Peter Yushchenk, despite many of our contradictions in other areas. The Holy One of Luke was a man of great courage. When Stalin asked him at the banquet after the victory parade, "But you opened the skull boxes and didn't see the holy spirit." "Yes," answered the Saint Luke, "but I didn't see any intelligence there either." He was a very brave man. He was a person who showed by his example that even in the totalitarian system, he could maintain high professional qualities, be a great surgeon, be a doctor, who was literally worshiped by the sick. And as for the church field, I'll give you another little example. Two years ago, at the blessing of the Blessed Vladimir, the Metropolitan of Kiev and all Ukraine, our organization made a dedication to Ukraine with the powers of Spiridon Trimibuntski. This is the greatest Orthodox saint of all Saint Nicholas; they were friends and spoke together at the 1st Council of the Universe. That's when we are. The powers of the saint of Spiridon Trimifunt were accompanied by Greek monks, priests and laymen from Corfu Island. And when we came to Simferopolis, the first thing all the Greeks did was they went to cancer with the powers of our saint, St. Luke. A church delegation always attends his holiday from Corfu Island. The Greeks are very popular. You know who the Greeks are in the possession of the Orthodox faith. Therefore, in our church, the Saint Luke is a canonized saint, a great authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u220	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u221	I'll finish my statement. Anyway, friends, let's vote yes. It's a great saint, it's worth noting the anniversary of his death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u222	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u223	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I want to thank Peter Andriyovich for raising this great subject. Another question that I'm sorry that the committee didn't find a formula for how to do it. Maybe you could have done 140 years from your birthday, write it down. And a 50-year-old on the occasion of death. Maybe so? Could that have been the case? That's why I'm talking to the author right now. Because we've got all the short-term bills under review. Perhaps Peter Andriyovich can be recorded as we have always been. Because we live in a worldly life. And write that about celebrating the 140th birthday, honor. And the word "honor" that our colleague suggested yesterday. I think it's going to be right. And then it would be appropriate to write those words. Because to the Saint Luke we have only a great honor and only a great deal of gratitude. That's all we have today, people. But the very fact that we accept and unite, at least in this vote of this Hall, will testify to the fact that we observe any sacred thing, especially that we respect both intelligence and respect the cooperative work that he has done, including doing to the blind for many years, completely blind, he has healed and healed people. And this is a colossal example for society, as well as for you and me, who need to understand what difficult story in our country that has given such people that they give them, and we try to boil them up in language, in flags, in other unnecessary things. I'm calling for backup and I wanted to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u224	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u225	I'd like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if you're a historian, maybe you can correct us, write, "Honoring the 140th birthday", make such changes, and "50th anniversary of death."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u226	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, please. Dear colleagues, when we put the agenda into order, then when we have practical consideration, we will also introduce the clarification. Now the main thing is to put it in the agenda. I can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, reporters and speakers focused on the religious and social activities of the Jasenecki War. I'd like to say very calmly about the medical side. You know, there's still a dead body of surgeons in Ukraine that saved thousands of lives. And without talking, when they were celebrated, they also asked how you were able to achieve this kind of success in surgery, many of them said, "I was just learning in the military textbooks." And that, indeed, is true. It's a unique person, not many in the history of medicine in the country. Clearly, then, these dates need to be supported unanimously. It's not about any pompous notation, it's about medical institutions, medical schools, medical institutions, where mention of this remarkable person is just going to be a great example for young doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u228	Dear colleagues! Paul Silent, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u229	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think the most important arguments were given by the author of this decree, which, by the way, resonates with the second figure that follows, is with Peter Kalniszewski. These are truly great figures in our history, both modern and ancient. And I don't have to convince me today whether 50 is a date or not. If we're celebrating 150 years from the day of Taras Grigorovovich's burial, I don't see any alogism in this person who's done so much and under such conditions that he's going somewhere today to take it for parentheses and talk about the fact that the committee didn't act that way. First of all, the committee was looking at a hint, and so, on behalf of the committee, I'm also a member of the committee saying my position: we need to put the agenda into order and vote immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u230	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us deal with you, we will continue to do so. When we form the corresponding draft regulations, when it comes to the anniversary, there, the anniversary of our birthday, we'll write, "mark the birthday"; when the anniversary of death, let's say, "remembrance of memory," we'll have a unified approach. That's the first one. The other one. I propose, my fellow Members, that we make a decision to vote on the inclusion in the agenda without a date, simply to honor the memory of Valentin Felixovich of War-Jasenecki, Orthodox saint, scientist, surgeon doctor, motorist, archbishop of Crimea and Simferopolski. [[Saint and Confessor of Luke]] And then, when we make the final decision, we will polish it all off. No objections? I'm voting on this proposal in this paper. Please vote. Registration number 8476. [[13:49:37]] For 292 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we continue our morning session for 15 minutes. Well, we don't have any questions. We have to do what we plan to do. Dear colleagues, there's a draft decree marking the 320th anniversary of Peter Kalniszewski's birth. I don't think there's any need to talk about this historical figure. If you were so kind, we would support inclusion in the agenda, and then when the time comes, we would consider and make a decision. So I'd like to support us so we don't have any crashes. I'm voting for a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a decree marking the 320th anniversary of the birth of Kalniszewski Peter Ivanovich, a political and military actor, the last basketball player of Zaporozki Sic. [[Registration number 8478]] Please vote. You see, I work productively. [[13:50:42]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Now the draft National Cultural Product Act. In order for us to be able to consider it, I have a request, let's look at it in a simplified way. No objections? Otherwise, we won't be able to look into it. What? Let's put it off, let's not look at it. Then we won't see him again tomorrow. We have these draft laws, honourable colleagues, to date: draft National Cultural Product Act; draft Industrial Parks Act; draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to open access to the information of the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs; and draft Ordinance on the establishment of TSCs to investigate the causes of uncontrolled price increases in food products. So let's at least consider one draft law: a national cultural product. We've got 25 minutes. During this time, let us consider it. Then let's set up this procedure, one minute: the reporter is 10 minutes. Does that suit you? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, then we accept. We've got 25 minutes. If we are. [[B in m in s a l in]] We have another schedule tomorrow. Representatives form proposals on Wednesday. One minute, the factions that don't belong to the majority. I want us to consider this. You want to delay another week, let's postpone. Dear colleagues, I don't know what side of the sex you like anymore. Well, honestly, you want to be human, and so on, and you don't. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the draft National Cultural Product Act is under review. What we're going to do is we're going to look at it, we're not going to get there, we're not going to consider it. Please. Well, let's say we give the interview 10 minutes, and then we'll talk about it in 15 minutes and we'll make a decision. We'll be fine then, we'll find a compromise. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u231	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, this is a bill that has been in Parliament for more than two years, and I think it needs more attention than a simple consideration of the reduced procedure, given several circumstances. And the first is that now, more than ever before, the national cultural industry needs protection by the state, by the government, by the government, by the authorities, if you will, by all citizens. And in previous years, and now this bill has been very difficult to pass through parliamentary structures, given that a large part of the deputies are not yet ready to have a clear pro-Ukrainian position, because the adoption of this bill will lead to a complete change in the current market for cultural industries in Ukraine. More simply, the adoption of this bill on a national cultural product will lead to Ukraine's independent State's support of a foreign producer of cultural products for the 20th year of Independence finally becoming the support of the Ukrainian producer of its own national cultural product. This will mean that endless shows on all television channels will become impossible when even Ukrainian leaders are no longer present, and mainly Russian imported leaders are cheering Ukrainian audiences, Ukrainian citizens. And that means that on Ukrainian television screens, both on vacation and on television, the power of foreign film production will cease, mainly Russian, and finally Ukrainian television, as well as on television, the rolling time will be filled with high-quality Ukrainian film productions. This means that not 20 percent of the Ukrainian book will be on the shelves, but at least 80 percent will be on the shelves. On the contrary, about 80 percent is a foreign book, mostly Russian, about 20 percent is a Ukrainian book. This means that after the adoption of the National Cultural Product Act on schedules, it will be possible to buy more than one paper, either hard or hard in the morning, but it will usually be possible to buy a Ukrainian - language printed press, rather than how now that it is mostly Russian - speaking printed product. And that means that not what we are now going to be witnessing in Ukraine is just foreign or mostly foreign performers, especially in the last year, when it is impossible for us to tour our country. They ride in other countries and perform small club concerts. This will mean that our recognized, classical, and estranged, and popular groups will take advantage of the priority of gastronal activity in their home country. All of this will be ensured through the State support of the national cultural producer provided for by the bill. This bill is not just the fruit of my efforts, it is the fruit of the efforts of the entire copyright team. Worked and often worked, by the way, so far in the Ministry of Culture, as well as those outside the government who have been working outside the government for a long time, in fact, to produce a national cultural product and realize that it is impossible in the country to fight what is done without any support from the state, and from all points of the zone, it is still not possible. Thus, the bill envisions five measures of State support for a national cultural producer who, of course, needs clarification in the second reading, since some of them need correlation with the already approved Tax Code. I've been introducing this bill a long time before today, more than two years ago. This was before the adoption of the new Tax Code, which much of the issues related to taxation by value added tax and income tax for the national cultural product would have been resolved but not decided. Thank God that they have left some benefits for the public support of the publishers in the new Tax Code, and some benefits for the support of filmmakers. But in all other ways, no support is provided through the tax system. So this bill provides both tax support, I will not decipher, in the absence of the time of the national cultural product, and State support by way of guarantors, by creating adequate financial resources, and by creating other ways and methods of favourable treatment by the State for the national cultural product. National cultural products are defined by spheres such as spheres 11 and cover virtually all kinds of national cultural products and national cultural services that are available for production and distribution in Ukraine. This will mean that if adopted today by the ruling majority, the bill will have an obvious economic effect, since in the entire civilized, developed world, culture has long become one of the key productive forces. And it's not just a simple look at art and culture, it's a production force. Cultural industries in many countries have become a major source of revenue for their countries' national budgets, which means that if an approach is proposed and proposed by this bill and supported by a majority vote, all the norms that are even provided for in the current legislation will be able to be implemented. For example, right now, we have earlier calls by the Supreme Council to the standards worked out, to the public support of the publisher, to the 30 per cent screen-time quota for national movies and other appropriate protectionist standards, but they can't be used, because the actual work of the government, especially now, is not going in the direction of support. For example, a national producer in cinematographic terms, such as a national bookstorer, and also such a situation in other fields. And so, for example, when it comes to filming, this, as envisaged by the current legislation, 30 percent of the quota for screen time for Ukrainian films can't even be closed because there are no mechanisms, there are no enabling conditions on the part of the state for national film production. In order to be fair, it must be said that some, including taxes, on value added taxes, income taxes, and some of the benefits of importing materials and services needed to produce a national cultural product are provided for by valid legislation. I'm fine. I mentioned that this is partly related to film production and publishing, but these quotas are only of an episodeal nature and without systemic interaction throughout the legislative field they cannot be implemented. So in addition to the three major chapters of this bill on national cultural product, I make changes to the seven bills that mainly relate to the tax portion and the corresponding preferences for value added tax and income tax, and to a whole range of other bills, because this is what it takes for a national cultural product to be supported in the complex. In closing this statement, I want to say the following, of course we can discuss the relevance, let's say, of tax support for the national cultural product. Of course, we can discuss the need for certification of a national cultural product and financial support only for certified national cultural products and national cultural services in Ukraine. Of course, we can discuss the creation of a cultural innovation fund, but all of this is a technical issue that can be solved by law-makers in the event of goodwill. Regrettably, so far in Ukraine, good will has been demonstrated in a systematic sense in Parliament, and there has been no independence for 20 years. So, of course, there's a simple choice for the MPs, especially for the majority: either take and reject this bill as too pro-Ukrainian, which can trigger insinuations there, or take a more thoughtful approach to this issue and, by voting in the first reading, work on those norms that might cause discussion in the second reading. Such standards are certainly, and by a percentage of 30, this bill can be cleaned, both in terms of tax benefits and in terms of the creation of an appropriate body for certification of a national cultural product. But if we just now reject the idea and the need to support the national cultural product, that is, support for Ukrainian cinema, Ukrainian theater, Ukrainian music performers, Ukrainian television products, that means that Parliament is thus taking the side of those who think that it is necessary to support foreigners here and its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u232	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u233	And just destroy your own. I believe that this approach is wrong, non-stately, and I urge the ruling majority to vote in the first reading in support of the Ukrainian cultural product. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u234	Thank you. Head of the Committee, Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u235	Good afternoon, Ukraine! The state that doesn't have its own national product, the cultural product first of all, is not a state, it's either a transit station, or a basement, call it what you want. That's more in this globalizing world, where today we're not going to be surprised by the TVs that we have, by the way, and we're not, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, nor are we, in this globalizing world. As a result, such a bill, a national cultural product, would have to be passed long ago by Ukrainian authorities, would have to be one of the most important bills. Because in this case, on behalf of the committee, I just want to thank Kirilenko, Jr. Kirilenko, for really doing this huge job. I want to say that we are actually facing the threat of the loss of Ukrainian culture as such today, and our national heritage, which is currently being decommissioned, and recently the committee has held a retreat to Preyyaslav-Hmielnicky, where it has been found that the clergy of one of the sects have been thrown out of the museums by one and the other, literally from those temples where they have been for many decades. And even members of the committee were not allowed into this territory. That's why we think that this kind of bill today in my ideology, I emphasize, not in detail, in my ideology, all the details pedanticly revealed here, and I'm not going to be with them, I'm not going to repeat myself. But what we have today is a huge threat to the fact that the Ukrainian book is being completely squeezed out today on the margin, and first and foremost, on the Russian-speaking, and first and foremost smuggled into Ukraine, and therefore it is a few times cheaper than the Ukrainian book. And when they're standing next to it, people who very often don't care what language they're reading, of course they're going to buy a Russian book, because once again, it's going to be two and a half, or three times cheaper. We don't have Ukrainian movies today, and we don't have Ukrainian movies. There is no empty space, instead we have, forgive me, Russian expansion already. How many movies can we watch about the militias, the brazen Russian militiamen who hunt the same bravado bandits and so forth?Oh, my God! And we don't actually have anything today. It's kind of a solid sum for a movie this year, but it turns out that this amount is basically the debt that needs to be paid. Because of this, we do not actually have anything to develop movies today. The Ukrainian theaters are in the same situation today. Maybe a few there, a little bit more Stupchin theater there, maybe Reznikovich, there and so on. What happens to the theaters? We can say the same thing about Ukrainian estration today, which is not actually supported. Because of that, I understand, the beautiful Ukrainian humorist Krizanowski, unfortunately dead, once said, "I'm not as stupid as I look.".. Right, and I'm not "as stupid as I look" to believe that you vote for it, because there are certain benefits. What, then, is this country that cannot protect its culture and cannot provide aid?Oh, my God! You spend billions of dollars on oligarhams, and there's barely a pitiful amount of money on culture, and you can't cheat at the end of it, you can't protect the museum today. Yesterday you're dividing the budget into your future districts, and you're not voting for it. I'm sure you're taking a huge shame on me. I ask you to vote in the first reading. Until the second, we will work together and we can make a perfect, good country that wants to be civilized, a very good bill. Try to do so if you have a conscience and if you are truly cultural people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-15-m0.u236	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would only ask one thing so that we don't read morals, lectures to each other, because they can. Now the other side starts to say, "Where were we before, why didn't we take it?" Well, I'm asking you, with this blackmail, we can't make a decision. I think this law should be adopted, but when we begin to think of conscience, it is obvious that we should always take it to work, not just today when we walk. Dear colleagues, I understand that now that we have the pros, the pros, we, well, I don't think we'll find a position. I have a request, let's include this question, by taking it as a basis, we'll work on it, in preparing for the second reading, then it'll be clear what positions to take into account that we don't take into account. Well, what we need in the state of Ukraine to support a national cultural product, I think it's clear that we should go to work in the morning if you're working. I'm asking you, let's conclude today's session with what we're going to adopt as a basis for this bill and end on such a positive note. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft National Cultural Product Act (Registration No. 4298). Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[14:09:22]] For 266 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 159, "BUT – "Patkaščina" – 33, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 31, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 3. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Since 15 hours, we will have parliamentary hearings as well as committee work. Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its plenary work from 10 a.m. to Thursday.
