ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:00:17]] The 373 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary from 1 to 4 November 2011. Six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place. Eighty questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 17 laws and 15 regulations were passed, 10 bills were passed on the basis, 2 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, 29 bills and 3 draft regulations were rejected; 2 laws were adopted in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine; 132 parliamentary requests were announced. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have the opportunity to make speeches on Tuesday, by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups to make statements, to make proposals by messages, and so forth. Members of the MPs, please sign up for the speech. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Alexander Steshenko. Who will act? Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please. Pachesuk or some of the factions of the Party of Regions will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u2	Respectable compatriots! For over 100 days, he has been in prison for Julius Timoshenko. That's how long it's been since August that she was robbed of her freedom, and today, in fact, the Jesuits are taking her life. Yet, despite her inhuman attitude, this unique woman continues to marvel at the world’s courage and integrity. Every day and every minute in a cold and cheesey shop, it is concerned about its home country. She recently addressed a flaming letter to the European community to support Ukraine in its successful European choice, even at the cost of her own freedom. She would probably never have kept her mouth shut about what is happening in the country today. First. In order to become a full member of the family of European peoples, Ukraine is in urgent need of real reforms, not but of positive reforms. Radical change, support needs science, education, health, social, economics. Together with such a wonderful nation, we can and must do everything on one condition, complete trust in power and its actions. There are changes in the country, but have they turned out to be good, and have they received real support? The destructive tax, the ruthless pension, the absurd court, the destructive housing and utility reforms have even blown people away from the illusions of improving their lives. Inconspicuously, but very clearly, the most disturbing is the destruction of the middle class. Clearly, these people are very dangerous because they can not only work alone but also actively fight for their rights. The Tax Code was designed to clean up small and medium - size enterprises. And those who continue to resist will be cleansed by the most humane and just in the world. Our political power has always stood up openly and consistently and will defend the legitimate socio-economic interests of these people, because that is the way the developed countries of the world are going, showing us an example. The other one. Economic reforms are said to be out of the question. True, they have already happened! There is probably no such monopolization in almost all spheres and sectors of the economy in any country. To keep millions of hired workers in check, they came up with the Labour Code and, in fact, the slave stand. With his approval, the working people will finally become lawless, because any employee today's life-owners can be thrown into the street, as they say, without trial or investigation. Third. The turnout of the world’s crisis will inevitably strike a very vulnerable domestic industry. A powerful internal market needs to be formed immediately, and this cannot be done without the growth of plentiful demand. And our government team has done so in its time, including the payment of lost savings. And where does it come from when wages, pensions, scholarships are actually frozen? Social benefits are cancelled, and the budget for the following year is lower than in 2008. However, doubtful programs are offered to channel billions. Four. Not the greatest danger to the State and people seems to be hidden in the inevitable market of the earth. Now, let's say this separately, and today, for our wise agriculture, it's clear that the project for the future dissipation of Ukrainian land and the scenarios for the previous acceptance of industrial objects are almost identical. Our political team will never agree with such woe-reforms. We have taken firm action against such an unfair budget, the draconian Labour Code, and the destructive Law on the Market of the Earth. To conclude, I literally quote Julia Timoshenko: "Oligarchy and the Ukrainian people are not the same. They have different goals and different moral values. First, we need uncontrolledness, irresponsibility, economic shadow, and dictatorship that are incompatible with European values. And the Ukrainian people with their courage and."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u3	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u4	"And the Ukrainian people have demonstrated by their wisdom and steadfastness that freedom, justice and solidarity are their main values." That's what Julia Volodymyrna says. You do not want to listen to it, you do not want to listen to opposition, but hear at least your own people, that it may not be late for you alone, but also for all Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u5	Thank you. Leonid Kojara, faction of the Party of the Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u6	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! During the past month, significant events took place in the key directions of Ukraine’s foreign policy. The government has fully concluded the multiannual negotiations on the Association Agreement with the European Union, part of which is the Free Trade Agreement with the EU. At present, the parties are looking for a compromise formulation from the only question left in the agenda: the issue of Ukraine's European perspective. In these negotiations, the government relies on numerous resolutions of the European Parliament, where MEPs, once and for all, demand recognition of Ukraine's membership prospects in the European Union. I would like to state from this rostrum that this position of the European Parliament has become possible primarily because of the persistence of members of a group of Socialists and Democrats, partners of the Party of Regions in the European Parliament. Today, we have a very substantial piece on the Ukraine-EU summits in December of this year. I would like to stress that no summit of Ukraine-EU has ever been prepared in the history of our relationship on the backdrop of such significant achievements in the dialogue with the European Union. The intensive preparations for the summit have already begun. The first higher-level consultations will be held by President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine during today's visit to Wrocław, where he will hold talks on this subject with the President of Poland and with the Federal President of Germany. The last month became a time of real breakthroughs in Ukraine’s relations with Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States. This year we have a record volume of traffic with Russia, which has already exceeded $50 billion. During the Ukrainian-Russian summit in Donetsk, a series of very important bilateral agreements were signed. None of them, and this is important, have any political coloring. On the contrary, they directly touch on the practical lives of millions of Ukrainians, particularly making the crossing of the Ukrainian-Russian border significantly easier both for Ukrainian goods and for the citizens of our country. Ukraine is conducting an intensive dialogue with the Russian Federation on gas supply. Convinced, we will soon be able to compromise each other, and the government will be able to refrain from raising domestic gas prices, which is critical to all without exception to the Ukrainians. It is difficult to overestimate the value of Ukraine’s economic interests in signing a free trade agreement within the framework of the cooperative partnership of independent states. Having a free trade regime for goods and services with the SND countries and the European Union, Ukraine enjoys huge benefits of access to two major international markets: the EU market with a population of 502 million and a market for SND of 226 million. Ukraine, in fact, finds itself in the epicenter of trade flows between East and West, meaning large economic dividends in the future. One of the key points of the foreign policy program of the Party of the Regions is the diversification of Ukraine’s international trade relations and partnership with the BRIC countries. At the end of October, during the President’s visit to Brazil, a breakthrough in relations with this country, the leader of Latin America, and one of the world’s powerful development centers. In particular, both sides agreed to complete a space program for the Cylon-4 and Alkantar projects. All initial startups will be completed in 2013.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u7	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u8	Yes, and in 2013, all preparations will be completed for launching Ukrainian missiles off the Brazilian coast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u9	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Taras Cnerwell will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u10	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. When the economic crisis began in 2008, the state decided to protect the banking system -- it was explained by the fact that banks play the same role in society as the blood system in the human body. At the same time, unlike many countries in 20 years of the new banking system in Ukraine, trust in the principles and methods of its functioning in a large part of society has never been formed. And it is not just a problem for citizens who seem to be more comfortable hiding savings in socks or borrowing from neighbors. The problem is largely in the banks themselves, many of which shape their assets instead of trust in manipulation and low legal awareness of customers. Because of the lack of understanding of a large part of the population of nuances in financial matters, they resort to outright manipulation. Look at how much banking advertising is now promising fast credit for the available percentages. But try to get it in practice by these percentages. Once and for every month, commissions, loan payments, loan facility insurance and the person who takes the money in the bank are far from a complete list of the congregations to be paid. And the price of credit goes up by at least a third of what's being advertised. The supply of incomplete and inadequate information about the price of credit confuses the consumer of banking services. Citizens remain dissatisfied with the credit policy of banks, which in turn reduces the customer's willingness not only to go to the consumer, not only to the mortgage, but also to cooperate with banking institutions in general. In turn, mistrust in official credit structures always stimulates the development of the black market. Today, there is an ad on each pillar where a loan is offered. And regardless of questionable legality, the services of such machinators, who call themselves private investors, find their consumers. Because they have conditions, maybe worse, but they're completely understandable to most customers. So a bank war for a customer is sometimes turned into a war with a customer. It is not enough that banks themselves are pushing citizens with all kinds of small credit projects, overdrafts, and credit cards, and the imposition of loans, and administrative methods of lagging the population in a credit cable are impressive. In some businesses, as the letters to my citizens show, employees are frankly told that they will not count their wages without a credit card. People are put on a needle of small credit, thus depriving them of the ability to raise serious savings, the prospect of making a substantial purchase for the family. But at the same time, large loans, particularly mortgages, which are most important for everyone, primarily for a young family, remain inaccessible, and the conditions on which banks can and want to lend them are unattainable. Everything I've said, I'm dealing with it, it's practically not about all the businesses that have learned how to work with banks. What I'm talking about is thousands and millions of ordinary citizens. It was time to get rid of the burden of the '90s when the money came quickly to those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u11	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u12	It was a long time to get rid of the model and the burden of the 1990s, when money came quickly to those who chose, gently speaking, not quite the legal way. But let us not forget that money comes at the rate that it goes. And the lost trust is never restored. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u13	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Our parliamentary group considers it appropriate to use the time given by the Rules, not for other political declarations, but to focus on the specifics of the work for which we have actually been elected to the Supreme Council, namely the legislative one. Individually, we focus on the quality and honesty of the work. Regrettably, the analysis of the preceding weeks and the order of the day this week proves that there are enough harmful, anticonstitutional, openly lobbying and anti-reforming bills in the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, it is very often the parliamentary majority that votes for these bills. And it turns out to be an interesting conveyor. Most were created to support the guarantor of the Constitution, in support of the reforms it has initiated, in support of the President of Ukraine. This majority supports unconstitutional bills. The president criticizes them and then promises them. Most say that nothing happened, prepares after that, and replaces them with exactly the same bills. Let me give you just a few examples of this kind of pseudo-legislativeness. A well - known bill on documents that identify a person. Remember how actively our faction insisted that we adhere to the Constitution, that we should not go beyond what was defined by our agreements on the prospect of visa-free movement of Ukrainian citizens. Unfortunately, you rejected the government bill, which was more or less in line with those standards, supported the lobbyist. Where is he now? He's dedicated. There's a rumor that you're doing exactly the same thing. An absolutely disgraceful example is the draft law on the elimination of the quotas for national television products. Remember how we criticized him, and what did we say? That this bill actually does not lobby for any language issues, it lobbies a completely free pops that stretches through those producer agencies that enter Ukraine with huge suitcases of money. This feeling that when Mrs. Vitrenco, I apologize, confused her last name, reported the bill, behind her, was the ghosts of these producer agencies behind her. The same fate and accepted document, which also deserves a veto, about the alleged fight against smoking, which is actually a lobbyist document of some companies against others. Yet, this list is just a prelude to the most vulnerable lobbyist epepoch, which has been unsuccessfully implemented for several weeks in the Supreme Council Hall. In particular, attempts to deprive Ukrainian citizens of the constitutional protection of their rights to safe living conditions, conditions for safe production. It is 42 articles of the Constitution. Our MP group has been active, and our efforts have rejected these documents, which are really unconstitutional. And it would have seemed after Bills 9029, 1363, 7064 had been rejected, which finally preserved the rights of citizens. Regrettably, contrary to the Supreme Council’s regulations, three new documents were currently registered. And today, two of them are included in the agenda, and one of them was illegally included before, which likewise violates these issues, which repeat the word in previous documents. We ask you to stop doing these actions, which are actually anti-constitutional and which undermine the principles that the President of Ukraine preaches. If you're supporting the President, don't undermine him with such shameful documents. And last but not least about today's particularly important issue of decriminalization. Our MPs agree that it would be good for Julia Volodymyrna to be held accountable, not by legal action, but by political action. But not by the laws of Ukraine, we put her in prison. We support the adoption of the Law on the Decriminalization of Economic Crimes. The decriminalization of 365 articles is particularly dangerous, it brings out all the officials, including those who are now active, under future responsibility. We believe that the problem that arose today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u15	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u16	Today, with one person, it has to be resolved politically or legally, but we don't have to take all the action out of responsibility and create for them a presumption of innocence, actually causing further corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u17	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u18	Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! Unfortunately, a new economic crisis is beginning in Ukraine. And the authorities made the most of the effort. Instead of deliberate economic policies, we see incompetence, administrative thinking from the Soviet past, and inability to save the country. Our gold reserves are melting fast. There are prerequisites for falling the course of the bracelet. By the end of the year, the state had no money left for social benefits. Not that the benefits are not even paid to the budgeters, they are already on vacation at their own expense. The government budget deficit may amount to 22 billion dollars by the end of the year. There are also huge multibillion - dollar payments for loans already made. The IMF doesn't give any more money. Prime Minister Azarov was wise to see the positive in the budget hole and asserts the mantra of financial stability. All hope now rests on Russia, is being lent to Russia for monthly gas payments, and is ready to enter the debt cable. And the transition to gas calculations in Russian rubles is a huge achievement of Moscow, the consolidation of Ukraine in the Russian sphere of influence. Our nation will pay an extraordinary political and economic price for this, the surrender of Crimea through the Kharkiv Accords will only be a flower. It's a dangerous movement back, a movement from Europe. As the authorities see the economic situation improve, they squeeze the last juices out of small and medium - size business, and they increase economic repression. The bank thinks it's very clever and can turn social dissatisfaction into a government and a parliament, bring out a good president from under national dissatisfaction. But social protests cannot be controlled. The violence of the superior authorities is becoming a national tradition. The radicalization of society and the dissatisfaction of power is reinforced every day. The Kabin responds by introducing another anti-national bill of 9400, which de facto makes it impossible for the courts to enforce legal decisions on the payment of pensions to the people. And to improve the situation, the authorities also gather by shutting down any facilities from the heat in winter for any debts: kindergartens, hospitals, etc. This is suggested by Government Bill 9374. With such a "professional command" Ukraine repeats the path of Belarus. The local currency there, in particular, has tripled, and even the official inflation forecast in Belarus for this year is 118 percent. In addition to the statements, the increase in GDP is consistent with what our authorities are so proud of, 4-5 percent. What else does the Ukrainian and Belarusian authorities look like? They see in all things positive, including the disastrous poverty of their own citizens. In turn, we warn the government: Think about it while there is a chance. You have all the power, and you can't see the mind. Burying your head in the sand and inability to solve socio-economic problems for the benefit of citizens have already put the country on the brink. The opposition has long offered simple and understandable steps: first, to stop stealing, to start fighting corruption, not to lead it, corruption is destroyed from the top; to increase economic freedom, to create, not to destroy jobs; to make every effort to make a real rapprochement with Europe; there are high standards; there is a huge market for our production; there is financial resources; there is our future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u19	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist faction. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u20	Respectable voters, 20 years of independence, have shown that order is needed in the country. This is primarily the case for enterprises of strategic importance, in particular those of the fuel and energy complex. A strong example of how an “effective” private investor for profit can bury a prosperous enterprise, put thousands of people on the altar of his greedy fate, is the situation at the Alexanderogol Storm complex. In the event of criminal inaction of high-ranking officials, the right to lease multimillion-dollar property to Alexanderyugol was transferred several years ago to commercial entities controlled by a national deputy, a member of the BUT faction of Constantin Zivago. None of these companies had adequate experience in the management of coal-based enterprises and had the necessary financial and technical resources to do so. We, the Communist faction, have repeatedly addressed the authorities and personally proposed to them to fulfil all the obligations of the tenant. As a result, once a successful coal association that produced more than 10 million barrels of coal each year and produced more than 4 million tons of briquettes has been virtually destroyed. For example, during the time of the lease to Alexanderiaugol, structures close to Zhivago have been completely destroyed, Baidakovsky and Dimitrovska briquette factories, three out of four thermal power plants, the only mountain wax factory in Ukraine. The cut of Morozovsky is completely flooded, and the same is expected from Constantinovsky Razrez. A unique equipment has been dismantled and placed in the scrap metal roadways, and unique equipment has been destroyed. Over the past two years, wages have not been paid at all, and debts ranged from 8 to 20,000 bracelets per person. Other social funds have not been allocated to the Pension Fund. As a result, pensioners lost the right to benefits and guarantees for coal workers. They don't even have work books today. Despite the Government's orders, upon the return of Alexanderyugol to the full control of the State, the reimbursement of losses without a small 50 million bracelets and the repayment of salaries, “with and now there”. This is despite the fact that Ferrexpo, also owned by the company, is actually owned by the owner of the company, Alexanderiyugol's tenant, Constantine Zhevago, in the 2010 version of Forbes Ukraine, received a net profit of 3 billion 385 million bracelets. So is such a businessman who deprives people of their jobs, wages that deprive thousands of families of their livelihoods, who are profiting from the looting of their own, in fact, from his one party who hunts people in the woods? I have cited, respected comrades, only one example of how industrial capacity and all the social infrastructure created by generations of Soviet workers are being destroyed. These examples are numerous, regardless of which fraction of the capital is held. Therefore, one of the key laws that we propose to enact is the Law on Nationalization of Strategic Enterprises and the Resistance to Registration. A state without property is like a bird without wings. In addition, there is a need to strengthen parliamentary control over the entire privatization process, as well as to enhance the powers and control functions of the Statehood Fund at all stages of privatization. Today, too, respected colleagues are saying much about the need to decriminalize economic crimes. But our realities tell of another. The economic crimes in Ukraine are, in the vast majority, the nature of an open criminal offence. Moreover, part of the largest economic crime is committed under political cover. We therefore insist that all officials be held criminally responsible for the decisions made, and that ordinary people should not suffer from the criminal activities of officials. It's a principled position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u21	Microphone, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. Regarding the proposals made in the presentations, I ask the secretariat to draw up appropriate letters of address and commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider putting a series of bills into the agenda, and then we need to look at the issues on which the Conciliation Council has agreed that we have entered into the work plan for Tuesday. Yes, may I have your attention, honourable national deputies, to vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals in order to arrange for the provision of administrative services. [[9395]] Please vote. [[10:30:27]] For 266 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the well-being of the population]] [[9381]] Please vote. [[10:30:56.]] For 246 Decision taken. Draft Law on the Future Generations Fund. [[9401]] Please vote. [[10:31:20]] For 246 Decision taken. Draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. [[on documents of a permissive nature]] [[9375]] Please vote. [[10:31:49]] For 269 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the Strengthening of Responsibility for Prostitution and the Subordination of Relevant Cases. [[9406]] Please vote. [[10:32:23]] For 265 Decision taken. Draft Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on Property Assessment, Property Rights and Professional Evaluation in Ukraine. [[on Notarized Copies]] [[9330]] Please vote. [[10:32:52]] For 264 Decision taken. Draft Law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. [[9368]] Please vote. [[10:33:20]] For 265 Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the facilitation of the State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens. [[Registration number 9372]] Please vote. [[10:33:51]] For 274 Decision taken. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy. [[on the import procedure]] [[Registration number 9384]] Please vote [[10:34:20]] For 268. Decision taken. Draft Law on State Strategic Planning. [[9407]] Please vote. [[10:34:45.]] For 268. Decision taken. Draft Act on the peculiarities of the privatization of coal-fired enterprises. [[9412]] Please vote. [[10:35:13]] For 236 Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the administration of public property. [[9415]] Please vote. [[10:35:40]] For 237 Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve procedures for the provision of sanitary and epidemiological welfare for the population. [[9378]] Please vote. For 274 Decision taken. Draft Law on the Activities of Health Institutions. [[9386]] Please vote. [[10:36:33]] For 266 Decision taken. Draft Law on a State-wide system of emergency medical care. [[9387]] Please vote. [[10:36:58]] For 276 Decision taken. Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Heat Supply. [[on the use of a technological minimum of natural gas]] [[Registration number 9374]] Please vote. [[10:37:29]] For 235 Decision taken. Draft Law amending article 22 of the Law on Heat Supply on the Transfer of Property, which is used to produce thermal energy. [[Heat supply objects]] [[Registration number 9399]] Please vote. [[10:38:02]] For 269 Decision taken. Draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity on the licensing of activities in the field of intellectual property. [[9331]] Please vote. For 271 Decision taken. Draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on settlement of matters relating to the management of the assembly for socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in the area of observation. [[9409]] Please vote. [[10:39:08]] For 251 Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the accreditation of conformity assessment bodies. [[9389]] Please vote. [[10:39:36]] For 270. Decision taken. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on List of Permitable Documents in the Field of Economic Activity. [[concerning the unification of documents]] [[9394]] Please vote. [[10:40:04]] For 252 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. [[on the treatment of pension insurance cases]] Please turn on Oleg Light.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u22	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow MPs! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the government bill, 9400, on pension insurance cases, is the same bill as the one they tried to extend before, 9127. How depriving the rights of the Chernobylites, the Afghans, and the children of war for judicial protection! The government bill proposes not to enforce the decisions of the courts. Yesterday in Donetsk Afghanistan, the Chernobylites entered the pension fund and are sitting there today because the government illegally, despite court decisions, took away their pensions. Today, people are receiving cash pensions! The government, by introducing this bill, is trying to legalize the backlog of the failure to enforce court decisions. So I strongly insist that we don't support this bill, because this bill deprives millions of Ukrainian citizens, socially vulnerable, of social rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! Voting is proposed for the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality for the treatment of pension insurance cases. [[Registration number 9400]] Please vote. The information on this subject has just been given by Deputies Lazko. [[10:42:04]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 175, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 2, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 20, non-factional – 9. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to bring them into line with the Ukrainian Social Dialogue Act. [[Registration number 9152]] Please vote. [[10:42:46]] For 275 Decision taken. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 8 of the Ukrainian Roads Act on the Classification of Roads in General Use. [[9376]] Please vote. [[10:43:16]] For 269 Decision taken. Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Rail Transport of Ukraine. [[on the delimitation of the functions of the public and commercial administration of the industry]] [[9377]] Please vote. [[10:43:44]] For 269 Decision taken. A draft Act on the characteristics of the sale of shares belonging to the State in statutory capital of banks in which the State participated. [[Registration number 9362]] Please vote. [[10:44:13]] For 241 Decision taken. Draft Act on State Financial Support for Export Activities. [[9373]] Please vote. [[10:44:38]] For 270. Decision taken. Draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Assembly. [[on complementing the list of categories of credits]] [[9393]] Please vote. [[10:45:08]] For 270. Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine. [[on the support of agricultural producers]] [[9345]] Please vote. [[10:45:34]] For 101 Thank you for supporting the agricultural day. 101 – no decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 18, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 14, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, "The People's Party – 11, "Afterfaction" – 13. On your request, I'm voting on a motion to return to the draft law. [[Registration number 9345]] Please vote. [[10:46:25]] For 226 I'm voting on the proposal to include the bill in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:46:49]] For 237 Decision taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 10, "BUT - Fatherland" – 101, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 50, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 19, non-fractional – 12. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on improving environmental audit]] [[9269]] [[10:47:31]] For 247 Decision taken. The draft law on the specialities for the rental of pre-school education institutions in municipal property, please vote. [[9264]] [[10:47:57]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on crimes against morality in the area of sexual relations]] [[9135]] [[10:48:25]] For 275 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on Sexual Relations with a Person who has not reached 16 years of age. [[Registration number 9136]] Please vote. [[10:48:55]] For 260 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Code on Administrative Offences to increase responsibility for infringements of the installation and use of special light or audible signal devices. [[Registration number 9293]] Please vote. [[10:49:29]] For 226 Decision taken. Draft Act on Amendments to Article 84 of the Law on the judiciary and status of judges. [[on Disciplinary Conduct]] [[9272]] [[10:50:02]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Draft Act on Amendments to Article 98 of the Law on the judiciary and status of judges. [[on ensuring the activities of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine]] [[9273]] Please vote. [[10:50:32]] For 248 Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers. Is that what this is about? Please, let's do it this way: from factions, if possible, one man at a time. First of all, it's Chernobyl. Then there's Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs! We have no right under the Rules to vote in favour of this project at all. I want to remind you that just recently, we rejected Bill 7064, which completely bypassed the bill. It's written under the envelope, under the ring. In fact, it had been introduced in the same way before, because we had previously rejected 1,363 drafts. All these bills, few of them registered with gross violation of the Rules, are still unconstitutional. They are aimed at putting an end to the 42rd article of the Constitution, which provides for safe protection for Ukrainian citizens. I understand that we will eventually eliminate the certification system, but to that end, we need to introduce: first, technical regulations, second, the complete system of responsibility for the breach. You can't even put this project to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u25	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u26	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! If you pick up the transcript of November 1, 2011, you'll see that absolutely such a bill was not supported, so no one voted for it, because it's anti-State. He did not have to register under the Law on the Regulations at all. Think about it. On November 1st, the Supreme Council rejects it, and on November 7th, we register it again. I don't know how it's done, who's been giving the order to register, but, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that's not supposed to happen. In essence, this bill brutally violates the Constitution. Maybe that's why, and here's Taras Cranwell's right, when he talked about it, maybe that's why he's being protruded, this bill. I mean, the first attempts were still like that with President Yushchenko. By the way, there's no international experience in technical regulation in this project, nothing else. I'm asking you to take off and not vote at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u27	Yes, the distinguished national MPs, I bring to your attention that when documents are submitted, a co-worker of the apparatus, does not get into the content of the document. You have reason to believe that this bill, in its content, is largely repetitive of that bill, which is the Supreme. Just a minute. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, which rejected it, did not include it in the agenda. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider this bill for inclusion in the agenda and, if a positive decision is made, the next consideration. But here are various thoughts, respected colleagues, that will allow you to make a balanced responsible decision. For this reason, Peter Simonenko and Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! The Company's faction proposes not to vote in favour of the inclusion of the draft in the agenda and follows from the following. First. This is a requirement of the WTO, which primarily aims to ensure that Ukraine is disarmed from the point of view of protecting the health of the Ukrainian population. And this was done, by the way, by Yushchenko cancelled the practical sanitary and epidemiological control of imported products at Ukraine's borders. Next. Taking this control will certainly result in food being imported by medicines that do not conform to our standards and do not meet the standard of living. The poisoning of children has become systematic in Ukraine. And as soon as the summer season begins, we face the fact that mass poisoning is just accompanying children's institutions and pre-school institutions. Next. I would like to address the distinguished colleagues. Who doesn't know we don't have oil in Ukraine? We've got a surrogate that's made with God knows what it takes to stuff each other's pockets.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u29	Microphone. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u30	Let's stuff our pockets with each other and destroy the future of millions of our citizens. The faction of the Company therefore categorically opposes the project and proposes not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u31	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We have declared with you the non-alternative nature of the course for European integration. But to get closer to Europe, we need to adapt our legislation to European standards. And it is here that this law provides, on the one hand, that we cancel today's procedure, but in the Transitional Regulations we will write that the law will enter into force only if the old procedure is replaced by a new one that will be adapted to European standards. So there will be no vacuum in time, no law entry. The Transitional Regulations will state that the law will enter into force. The law will enter into force only when the old system is replaced. It will be in a year, so in a year, the law will enter, in two or two. On the other hand, it would undermine the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a new system that would be acceptable and in line with European standards. Please support this law for inclusion in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, we exchanged thoughts on this bill. In the light of all the circumstances and arguments, I ask the deputies to make a responsible decision. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine and the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Standardization and Certification. [[Registration number 9427]] Please vote. [[10:57:20]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Draft Act amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports. [[on the position of a physical culture instructor in rural areas]] Mikola Tomenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not Tomenka's bill, this is the bill of the entire sports community and those people who live in rural areas today, and who remember that we had a physical culture and sports instructor who paid for a village council until recently. What Is the Rural Council? This may be four villages, five villages, and so forth. I don't think there's even a hint of a moment of conjuncture here. Because after the last year, my friends, we've had our life expectancy reduced in Ukraine, and I'm stressing to you, we're the only European country that's had a shorter life expectancy. Today, if we do not strengthen our work with young people in rural areas, do not increase our work in general, we may lose, from a health point of view, a Ukrainian village. One day, Anton Pavlovich Čechov came to visit us in Poltavščina and looked at the peasant and said that he was surprised by the Ukrainian peasant: he was both working and smart, cheerful and sober at the same time. In order for Chekov to pass through our Ukrainian villages right now, he would have said otherwise. So I'm surprised that the Ministry of Education and Sports is against it, but our profile committee supports it. Supports the sports community. I'm ready for all the compromises in the financing process. But let us be included in the first reading and, together with the government, let us discuss how we can restore recovery and physical culture in Ukraine’s rural area.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, you've heard the argument. For this matter, please, Mikhail Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I have deep respect for Nikolai Vladimirovich. Indeed, there is a problem. But unfortunately, this is contrary to the principle of the organization of local self-government authorities, which is enshrined in the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, by which local self-government authorities should be able to determine their own internal administrative structures, taking into account local needs. [[Article 4]] So we're interfering with the prerogative of the local authorities, which should determine their own schedule. Perhaps this proposal today is not to vote in favour of this bill, but to allow the lawyers to see that we do not burn it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u37	Yuri Klukkowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u38	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." It is very interesting to hear one of the leaders of the factions of the region about the local self - government that is already dying in the close embrace of the present government. I would like to remind you, colleagues, that by your vote in the Local Self-Government Act, there has been a change in which the typical state-of-the-art census of local self-government is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, you should not scream about the autonomy of local self - government when you have suppressed it. And once Kabin sets up such states, let him also provide for this position in these typical states.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u39	Sergey Gordijenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u40	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this problem was previously solved by the Colossus Sports Society – the All-Ukrainian Society, which operated in Ukraine. It was based on combining the efforts of the farms and all the agricultural enterprises that worked there. They contributed funds, and it was stipulated by the government that more than 500 people would have to work in such a state unit. So today, with the collapse and the actual collapse of agricultural societies and inter-economic societies, I believe that it is objectively necessary, however, on the basis of rural councils, to establish a position as a sports instructor. It will be fair, and necessary, and beneficial for the village. It's not that big of a cost. Let's not rob our navels, and let's make some of it even if we're going to be a sports instructor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Indeed, in every household, I emphasize, there was such a person in every household, but there were farms. They're not here today. This is where we have to start with the main one, obviously. But there is a problem. So let's do this: let's look at the proposal for inclusion in the agenda, and then we'll talk about it essentially. I am voting on the proposal to include a draft Act amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports. [[on the position of a physical culture instructor in rural areas]] [[9102]] Please vote. [[11:03:01]] For 391 It's today, your honors, the record, the record today. Draft Act on the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons. [[9342]] Please vote. [[11:03:33]] For 268. Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on specific issues relating to the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine]] [[9440]] Please vote. [[11:04:02]] For 234 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine. [[on the taxation of transactions involving precious metals by the National Bank of Ukraine]] [[9441]] Please vote. [[11:04:32]] For 236 Decision taken. Draft Internal Trade Act. [[9443]] Please vote. It's not an external trade yet, it's an internal trade. [[11:04:56]] For 266 Decision taken. Draft Law amending article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on the identification of the significant value of Ukrainian goods in the cost of building an electrical facility]] [[9444]] Please vote. [[11:05:29]] For 267 Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning the powers of the Central Electoral Commission]] [[9410]] Please vote. [[11:05:56]] For 236 Decision taken. Draft decree marking the 110th anniversary of the birth of the Hero of the Soviet Union, Vatutin Mikoli Fedorovich. [[9200]] Please vote. [[11:06:26]] For 255 Decision taken. A draft decree marking the 500th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Chigirin in Cherkas region. [[9305]] Please vote. [[11:06:52]] For 390 That's the second result. Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered all the proposals that have been made regarding the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. Dear National Deputies! Here we go to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the humaneization of responsibility for wrongs in the field of economic activity]] Second reading. Registration number 9221. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on the Legislative Protection of Sweden's Law Enforcement Activities, Viktor Dmitrovich. Please, Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u42	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement presents to you a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation introduced by the President of Ukraine. [[on the humaneization of responsibility for wrongs in the field of economic activity]] [[Registration number 9221]] Prepared for second reading. I remind you that the bill was adopted by the Supreme Council in its first reading on the basis of October 6, 2011. During the drafting of the bill, 260 rights and suggestions came to the committee for the second reading. In view of the fact that individual members of the Rules have submitted their proposals for replacement, reducing their number, other national deputies have made identical proposals, which are combined under one number in a comparative table, the comparative table contains 222 amendments and suggestions. In addition, the committee has drawn expert conclusions from this bill, which came from the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Law Academy and many legal universities in Ukraine and, of course, from public organizations. During the drafting of the draft for second reading, committee hearings were held with the participation of the authors of the laws of the legislative initiative, scientists, and representatives of public and international organizations. The Committee at its meeting on 2 November, with the participation of many authors of proposals and amendments, representatives of the President's Administration, ministries and authorities of the criminal law community, reviewed and adopted decisions on each proposal and proposal. In particular, I would like to point out that the committee members, as well as other national MPs, have proposed that the drafters who participated in the meeting should clarify the title of the bill. Such a decision has been made in view of the fact that the amendments introduced by the President of Ukraine apply not only to the introduction of crimes in the field of economic activity but also to crimes in the field of service, as well as to the general provisions of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. That is why the committee proposes the title of the bill to be drafted: amending some Ukrainian legislation (to humanize responsibility for wrongdoing).
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u43	Why are you turning off the microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u44	Economic and service activities. And we ask you to support this decision of the committee. Dear colleagues, from a comparative table to a second reading, as I have said, 222 suggestions and entitlements have been taken into account by 64, 158 rights and proposals the committee has rejected. I would like to point out that most of these rights and proposals, which were rejected, were for the reason that they violated the regulations of article 116 of the Rules of Procedure Act, on the one hand. On the other hand, much of these proposals ran counter to the concept proposed by the President of Ukraine, a project to humanize accountability for specific offences. I've completed the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to move on to the amendment. Before that announcement. This is particularly true of the committees on those bills that we have considered on the agenda. I'd like to prepare them quickly for consideration. Those who will be ready, we can consider them during the evening session. And the second. We agreed on the Conciliation Council, taking into account the great amount of work that the evening meeting will continue until the finalization of Tuesday’s scheduled issues and each day. So once this is done, I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. I would like to consider this request in a positive way. Let's go to the repairs now. Amendment 1 counted. What? Victor Dmitrovich, once again, argue with the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, it's not just the 1st, it's a few amendments that apply to the name of the bill. I would like to point out once again, dear colleagues, that the President is proposing to humanize certain offences in the field of economic activity alone. But in the same bill passed by the President, humanizations are subject to part of the articles of the Criminal Code, contained in chapter III of the Criminal Code, which provides responsibility for domestic crimes. And part of the articles in chapter XVII, which provides for service crimes. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, in fact, the changes touch the main part of the Criminal Code. In this regard, we feel that the title of the law should correspond to its contents. If we leave the title of the law in that edition, which the President has introduced, then the title of the law will not match the content of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, the offer is understandable and insistence is understandable. The 1st, 2nd and 3rd amendments refer to adding the word "except for business and business." It's a very logical offer. I'm voting on Amendment 1 for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:14:23]] For-160. If we haven't confirmed the 1st, then the 2nd and the 3rd aren't automatically confirmed. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 4, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 101, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 47, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, "The People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 6. Dear colleagues, since we have not found a compromise on the 1st amendment, then the next two amendments should be voted on. Yes, Victor Dmitrovich? An amendment shall be put to the vote. To confirm. If she's confirmed, then she will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u48	No one insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u49	There are insistences, dear fellows! Victor Dmitrovich, please tell me. I'm voting on Amendment 2. It's counted. To support it, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:15:40]] For-157. And I'm putting to the vote the 3rd amendment of Vladimir Moses is similar to that of her. Please vote. [[11:16:02]] For 155 Dear colleagues, please. When we voted to confirm the 1 amendment, I said that since we didn't support the 1 amendment, obviously we shouldn't vote for Amendment 2 and Amendment 3, they're not supported either. The MPs insisted on putting the vote to the vote. Yeah, wait, I put the amendment to the vote of Vladimir Moses, right? 155, not supported. Let me write it down. Well, one minute, I'm still fixing to remember. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich. Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u50	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't understand the procedure you're taking. A representative of the Chechetov faction suggested that 1 amendment be made for confirmation. There were no other suggestions. Please state for the session and for the transcript that this is your proposal to put to the vote 2 amendment and 3rd. In view of this situation, I make a proposal and demand that all amendments be made in accordance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to come to the workplace right now. The Chechetov MP spoke, said Amendment 1, 2, 3 to put to the vote. Wait a minute! When the amendment was voted on, it was not supported, I said that there was no need to vote. They said, "Get on the vote," I put it, it's not my proposal and the amendment. For each amendment, there are 223, which will be the proposal, and the proposal will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules. So let's do it this way. Amendment 4 is rejected. Andrew School insists on it? Oh, no? Let's move on. Don't you insist? The 5th you don't insist on 6th either. 7th Amendment accounted for. Who insists on it? Please turn on the microphone. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u52	Please place the 7th amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u53	Victor Dmitrovich, please explain the 7th amendment. Well, I can't force it. I'm asking the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u54	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think, is a representative of the Party of the Regions, and I think we should put the motive behind the confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u55	I'll ask the honourable colleagues to. May I have your attention, please? So that the next proposals for any amendments would be reasoned. Please, Victor Dmitriovich, explain the contents of the 7th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u56	So we agreed to start with Mikhail Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u57	Well, your honor, according to the Rules, I can't force you to do that. Show me, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please, don't cause any trouble. Mikola Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u58	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I understand that we have been working on an appropriate profiling committee, which includes representatives of the Party of Regions, who have confirmed by their vote those amendments that are not rejected today. I don't understand Mr. Chechchev's position today when he demands confirmation of this vote. Is that a mistrust of one of the party members working on the committee? If a decision has already been made, let us work on the amendments that are being insisted upon. If there is no such thing as circusing, we should say that the Party of Regions does not support the decriminalization of the articles. And that's where we end up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I would like to take the advice of a colleague. Victor Dmitrovich, let's do the 7th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! The committee considered the amendment of the Bewazi People’s Deputy and considers it to be one that deserves to be taken into account. The committee voted and asked to support the committee’s proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, vote on Amendment 7th, by Valérie Bevès. It's considered by the committee, but it's required for confirmation. I'm putting a vote on the 7th amendment to confirm it. [[11:21:13]] For 178. Correction not supported. 8 amendments, author Tolstenko, please. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we must understand that any committee is a mini-parliament where there is a majority, and most may impose their views on this mini-parliament on the committee. Since the law was passed not by a committee but by Parliament, Parliament was more objective in taking into account the views of the committee when the law was passed as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u63	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u65	Just a minute. Adam Ivanovich, read the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u66	Look at 120 articles of the Rules, the third part of which gives every member of the People's Parliament the right to ask questions about the confirmation of the amendment taken into account. Anyone. Not necessarily the author. And each of us is given the right to insist that the amendment taken into account by the committee be submitted for confirmation. Why? But it's very simple, very simple. Because it is not the committee that adopts the law, but the Supreme Council does. The committee's proposals are considered, we agree – we agree, we disagree – we disagree. Article 120 of the Rules is part three.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u67	Victor Dmitrovich, relative to 8 revisions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u68	Once again, I would like to say that the committee was systematically working on this bill, and those amendments that were consistent with the spirit and letter of the President's Humanization Act were taken into account, including the amendment of the Tolstenka People's Deputy, which represents the Party of the Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, amendment 8 is put to the vote for confirmation. [[author Tolstenko]] Please vote. [[11:23:28]] For-141 Correction not counted. Amendment 9, George Carmazin, is partially counted. Nobody insists? One minute, the author is this amendment, please. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u70	Yuri Carmazin. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! Unlike Mr. Chechtov, I'm arguing that you're doing what you're now supporting. I propose to delete the words of Article 203. and article 219, because it's about which cases can only be disturbed by the victim's complaint. Now think about it: illegal manufacturing, export-import, storage, implementation, transfer of disks for laser-reading systems. Or another article, 219, to which I also propose to exclude. It says, "increasing bankruptcy," that is, deliberately for useful reasons, another personal interest, or in the interests of third parties, doing something like this to a citizen. So these actions are detrimental not only to the private interests of the subjects of farming, but to the public interests of the state, which is called Mr. Chechetov, Ukraine, this state is called, not by itself, "Putinstan" or "Janukovichstan".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u71	Yes, please, Mikhailo Chechetov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u72	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! With all due respect to Yuri Anatolievich and the Committee, I ask the Chamber to legitimize this amendment. The Hall will legitimize it, it will be the most democratic solution both right and constitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u73	It's the vote amendment number 9 of Yuri Carmazin, it's partially accounted for, obviously, for its full count, right? [[11:25:33]] For-154 Correction not supported. Amendment 10. Do you insist? It's not considered by the committee. No, it's not. Amendment 11th, Yuri Carmazin. It's partially accounted for. One minute, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin. This is about article 27 with the "2" badge. I propose to delete the words "art. 203 p.m. and article 219. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these crimes may not be committed solely on the basis of the victim’s complaint. That is, the detection of illicit manufacturing, export, import, storage, implementation, disk movements and laser-reading systems of matrix reading, equipment and raw materials for their production are mainly carried out by law enforcement authorities. And you remember how this room dealt with the issue of how Ukraine’s recruitment of the prerogatives and international trade were linked and so on. And we've been making changes here on these figures. Now you take it and you break it. I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u75	Victor Dmitrovich, do you have anything?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u76	This amendment is similar to the one we have just voted on. That's why it was supposed to be sent here. The Supreme Council did not support that proposal. That's why we have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, the committee considered the amendment in part. I can hear you. I am voting on the proposal to confirm the amendment on which the committee has partly taken a positive decision is Amendment 11. Please vote. [[11:27:46]] For-140. Correction not supported. Correction 12th, Valery Beales. It's counted. Valery Ananiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u78	I insist on this amendment. So if you need to ask questions for confirmation, please have no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u79	Victor Dmitrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u80	This amendment is supported because we on the committee feel that the judicial investigation of laser disks and so forth requires an investigative examination and that the complainant does not have the opportunity to conduct the study himself. That is why we supported the proposal made by the national deputy Behiz to exclude this from the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, there's a motion to vote to confirm the amendment of the 12th Valery Behwaaz. Please vote. [[11:28:58]] For-173 The factions? Please. Correction not supported. Region Party 2, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 96, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 45, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, "The People's Party – 0, non-factional – 3. Amendment 13. Is the author insisting? No, it's not. 14th. Are you insisting, Andrew? Andrew School insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u82	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, you understand that Mr. Chechetov is now demonstrating that he is directing the will of the Party of Regions and most of the whole, that the position is clear and understood -- to vote on all the amendments, not to support the law on humanisation, to bring about the European standards of Ukrainian legislation, which dates back to 1925 of the Soviet Union. I understand that Mr. Chechetov, and most, and the Party of Regions want to live, come back in 1925, only unknown as who, as those who were caught or those who were caught, because if they were in today's iposat in 1925, they would really be doing what they're doing now. So I'm not just insisting, I think we have to finally take this important step, to make sure that Ukrainian legislation meets European standards. So I encourage the Party of Regions to decide with this, in Europe they want to live or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u83	So do you insist on voting on your amendments or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u84	Yes. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u85	Victor Dmitrovich, please, this is the 14th and 15th revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u86	Article 65, to which amendments are proposed, was not the subject of a vote in the first reading. Therefore, making changes to this article is contrary to the rules of the Rules. That's why the committee turned down. Actually, it's the right thing to do. It meets all modern European and world standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the vote is amended by 14, author Andrew Schlell. It is rejected by the committee, it is necessary to vote in favour, whether or not to vote. [[11:31:17]] For-141 Correction not supported. Amendment 15. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u88	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. This is the same amendment that I'm going to stress again, it's humanizing, and I'm going to use this term, "Europeanize" Ukrainian legislation. I understand there's a rule of law there. But I think we should vote on it. And I would urge all of us, all of society, all of society, all of us who hear us, see us, and look at us, to the Supreme Council, to understand who is here. Like the great president of one state said, "hoo of hoo," right? Who is Hu? And I would like the Ukrainian people to understand who is who in this country. Because there is really much to be told in the West to European leaders, now in Wrocław to tell the President of Poland that we are doing everything to humanize legislation, we are doing everything to ensure that Ukrainian political prisoners are free to stop being persecuted. So that we don't have to use, let's say, the law enforcement system as a baseball bat. It's still in use. And the Party of Regions, unfortunately, is the main founder of similar uses. I therefore insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u89	Thank you. Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u90	Dear National Deputies! The National Deputy School proposes to amend the article, part two of article 73, and part two of article 74 of the Criminal Procedure Code. I've already said, in my spirit, these amendments, they're totally humanizing legislation. Unfortunately, however, they were not the subject of Parliament’s first reading vote. So the committee had no legal basis to include them in the table for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, regarding this amendment. Recently, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed the draft law of author Oleg Zarubinsky, which stated that confession to the accused was not a sufficient basis for bringing charges against him. Unfortunately, then the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including the committee, cooled down all these amendments and did not support them. It's about our cooperation. The vote is amended as follows: 15, by Andrew Schlell. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:33:49]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. 16 Amendment Rejected. Philenko and Saucenko, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Shishkina, 17th. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Sweden, 18 revisions included. Please, Victor Dmitrovich, about this amendment, it's the key here. Justification of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u92	This is where the language goes. In view of the fact that the honourable colleagues we propose to remove article 365 according to the law. Article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the figure "365" is proposed. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting amendment 18, and the committee has supported it for confirmation. [[11:35:06]] For-147 Correction not supported. 19th. Feldman, don't you think? No, it's not. Behtz, 20th. Are you insisting? Behwa's microphone Valery Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u94	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I propose leaving 235 articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine as it is today. Why? Because it sounds like, "To fulfill the terms of privatization." This article is closely related to 233 articles of the Criminal Code, which is the “Illicit Privatization of State and Municipal Property”. Do you understand what's going on? 90 percent of government property we've stretched for no price, and now the efforts of the Supreme Council are trying to sanctify this whole thing, and it's called humanization. I'm against such humanization, and our entire faction against such humanization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u95	Please take the seat of the committee, Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I have already mentioned that a large group of national MPs have proposed from that list of articles that are subject to decriminalization or humanization, the exclusion of those articles or other articles, including the national deputy Behves, who proposes to delete Article 235 from the bill that the President passed. The committee believes that such a removal would be contrary to the spirit of the bill on humanization, and the committee has therefore decided to reject the bill and reject it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, the 20th Amendment. The committee rejected it, the author reasoned on its amendment, and invites the Supreme Council to consider it for support. I'll bet on the vote 20 of the amendment. [[author Valerius Behtz]] [[11:37:12]] For-64 Correction not supported. 21st Amendment, Andrew School. Are you insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, I continue to insist that this amendment be voted on, first of all, so that Parliament can determine itself. Because I want our voters all to be very clear that in a country when we speak, the opposition that is going on is going on with democracy that is actually being dismantled by the Ukrainian democratic state and everything else is being built, but that democracy can't be called democracy. Something like what's going on in Russia, or Belarus, or maybe even North Korea. So I want everyone who votes to be visible to Ukrainian society, and everyone who doesn't vote doesn't support the humanisation of the law. Because the main task of any totalitarian regime is to put the opposition in jail, which the current regime is successfully coping with. Already the leader of the opposition has been held for 100 days without guilt, for only one reason that he is the leader of the political, most opposition force, in prison. Her health is being damaged. Now we use interrogation as torture against Yulia Timoshenko, and the Party of Regions does not want to support the humanization of Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, Victor Dmitrovich, are you going to be anything after this 21 amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u100	The committee proposes to reject this amendment, since the National MP of the School proposes in article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which means that the investigation of a criminal case should be investigated, that changes be made in the section relating to articles 364, 364 with a badge of 1, 365 with a badge of 2, that is, those articles, some of which were not the subject of the first reading, and some of those subject to humanization. So the committee rejected the amendment. I suggest we turn it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to the 21st vote that the committee has rejected. Please be sure. [[11:39:27]] For 133 Correction not counted. Correction 22nd, Valery Beales. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, is similar to what was said in the 20th amendment. I propose leaving two articles of the Criminal Code: 235 and 233 "Illicit Privatization of State and Municipal Property" within the framework of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. I'm just surprised that the state is depriving itself of the ability to influence privatization processes in our country. The state must be a serious player, tired as well as in the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u103	Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain a little bit about what's going on here. The President of Ukraine in his bill, which was supported by Parliament in the first reading, suggests decriminalizing article 235. National Deputy Beales, he suggests that this article should not be decriminalized and left behind in article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which provides for the subordination of the investigation of these cases. In this regard, the committee rejected the amendment, since we believe that article 235 should fall under the humanitarianization of criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u105	It's an amendment to the 22nd vote. Please be sure. [[11:41:12]] For-161 Correction not supported. The 23rd amendment. Is the author Savechenko insisting? No, it's not. Jacinka, 24th? No, it's not. Valerius Beales, 25th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I propose leaving in the structure of the Criminal Code 208 an article that provides for the opening and use of foreign currency accounts: Canary, Seychelles, London and Paris, Baden-Baden. All property is purchased today by our oligarchs, including high officials, through appropriate accounts. And we are quietly decriminalizing such an article today, which is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u107	Yes, Victor Dmitrovich, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the committee concluded that article 208 was listed under articles of the Criminal Code that are subject to humanization, or decriminalization. In this regard, it cannot be left in article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which determines the relevance of these investigations, i.e. which body is to investigate cases of crimes covered by article 208 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. I'd like to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, 25 amendments are made to the vote. Take down the vote. Please, Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u110	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Why did we put the wagon in front of the horse? We're making changes to the Criminal Procedure Code first, and then we're going to go to the Criminal Code. So without knowing which articles are going to be decriminalized, which are going to have to be investigated in advance, we define this in the Criminal Procedure Code. And so it happens that the key amendment of the head of the committee of Victor Sweden on the decriminalization of article 365, which is followed by Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko, goes to the 96th amendment, and the 16th amendment has already been rejected as to who will investigate this crime. So there is the answer that 96 amendments will not be considered in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! It's the 25th vote. The author is the national deputy Beviz. [[11:44:05]] For-79 Correction not supported. Amendment 26. Tarasyuk, Koval, Blackwolf. It's counted by the committee. Please. Black woman's gonna talk, isn't she?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u112	Correction counted. Let's move on, Vladimir Mikhailovich, no one's putting her on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u113	That's why I'm here. Wait a minute! Yuri Bogdanovich, please! If the MP is already loudly reporting that for confirmation, I must propose to speak! [[B in m in s a l in]] What, you don't? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on Mikhail Chechtov. You've been read. I'll do it now. You've been read, 112th: any MP has a right. Unfortunately, it is. Please, Mikhail Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u114	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, there is an amendment to the three distinguished deputies with one faction. This is the position of one faction. We ask that the position of one faction be legitimized by all the parliament that adopts the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u116	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is that the committee approached this bill systematically. And because they count. This is exactly what Vladimir Romanovich Moysik said, and we are now looking at the changes to the Criminal Procedure Code. And the changes to the Criminal Code will be a little later. But this is the kind of bill that the President of Ukraine drafted. So we have to look at it in that order. Thus, the committee adopted a decision and supported an amendment that removes article 365 from the Ukrainian Criminal Code. That's why we supported the proposals made by the distinguished national MPs: Tarasyuk, Koval and Blackwolf. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u117	I'll bet you a vote on the motion for confirmation of Amendment 26. Confirmed. It's counted by the committee. Please vote. [[11:46:23]] For-146 Correction not counted. By factions, please: The region's party is zero, "BUT" is the "Fatherland" is one hundred, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 41, the communists are zero, "Reforms for the Future" is one, the People's Party is zero, the non-factional is four. The 27th Amendment, does the author insist on it? Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u118	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, the amendment that I propose to make is article 44 to remove the words from the text: "and also persons who are found to be sentenced in a limited way," to rule out. Well, I don't know what "limitedly condemned person" is. Either you're convicted or you're not. That should be, I think it's actually like this, you know, a steel chip is still left in Ukrainian legislation. Because in reality there are no half - pregnant women, there are no half - wise women — either condemned or not. And in fact, the previous vote confirmed that the representatives of the Party of Regions want to have a law in their hands that's like a breather: where you go back, that's what's going to happen. So they want to have. The people call such laws yet rubber. It's rubbery because you can put on anyone and everything. It's an analogy with one of these rubber products. So what I'm stressing is that the representatives of the Party of Regions, they're just playing with the humanization of Ukrainian legislation. They're going to use the relevant laws that the Stalin regime left them to inherit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u119	Victor Dmitrovich, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, in the broad sense of the word, the amendment proposed by the National MP of the School certainly refers to the concept of the humanization of legislation. But the point is that article 144, which is now referred to by the national deputy, was not the subject of a vote in the first reading. In this regard, the committee was not able to include the bill in the table and to make a decision on it, since this would be contrary to the Supreme Council’s Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, the vote is amended by the 27th. [[author Andrew Schlell]] You had an opportunity to hear an argument. [[11:48:45]] For 132 Correction not accepted. Tolstenko, 28. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, 29th. Are you insisting? He insists. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u122	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment was about what I propose in Article 149. in Part 1, paragraph 2, delete, namely, "do not separate from the inhabited area where he is registered, resides or resides without the permission of the official or the authority in which the criminal case is conducted." These changes are due to the fact that the wording of this article duplicates the content of a precautionary measure, such as a nondepartmental subscription. [[I emphasize the word "dump," meaning, "repeats," in Ukrainian.]] the specificity of the precaution given and should not apply to other precautionary measures. So I want to fix the disadvantage that was written down and accepted at the first reading. So I insist that this amendment be supported. And we don't have to write other things down when we know that opposition is sitting on political articles. Let's go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u123	Well, really, Yuri Anatolyovich, at 30 she's counted, actually. Yes, Victor Dmitrovich? Yes, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u124	The committee suggests that this amendment should be rejected in view of the fact that, according to the committee, a person for whom a precautionary measure not related to a seizure is taken into custody may and should be given certain responsibilities that he should carry out. That's why the committee rejected the order of the national MP Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, the 29th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin is now under way. [[11:50:55]] For 122 Correction not supported. Amendment 30 Vladimir Oilynik, accounted for. Is there a warning to her? Nobody insists? No, it's not. 31st Yuri Carmazin, accounted for. Nobody insists? Please, Chechtov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u126	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, we ask once again to legitimize the author's special opinion on the amendment of the sessional hall, which adopts the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u127	Yuri Karmazin, please explain your correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u128	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'll make that argument. I suggest in paragraph 3 of the first part after the words "and or place of work" to add the words "for two days from the moment of such changes." These changes are made in order to clarify the law’s position, since the absence of such terms can complicate the implementation of this norm and lead to abuse by certain individuals. For example, when a person is detained a few hours after such changes have been detected, he is detained in connection with a violation of his obligations as defined in this article, as outlined in article 106 of the Ukrainian KPC Bill. in the right to detain a person suspected of committing a crime for which a basic penalty of more than three thousand untaxed minimums of income is imposed on citizens in an exceptional manner if the suspect has failed to perform the duties of applying a precautionary measure, including the obligations provided for in article 149. the code, or failed to meet the requirements for the introduction of funds as collateral and the issuance of documents, as established. So the committee did the right thing by taking these amendments into account. Sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u129	Victor Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, this is such a technical amendment, but it is very important, and the committee supported this amendment by voting. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, Yuri Karmazin's 31th amendment was supported by the committee. In view of the proposal to put the amendment to the vote to confirm it, I am voting on the 31th Amendment of Yuri Karmazin for confirmation. It's counted, once again, by the committee. [[11:53:33]] For-160. No correction supported. Amendment 32 Yuri Karmazin The committee turned it down. Are you insisting on her? Yeah. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin. I thank all the deputies and factions who have now supported my previous amendment. Obviously, only the author’s surname acts a little inadequately on the representatives of the Party of Regions. And I'd like to go to the amendment, to article 149, to say such things. I would like to add a new part of the following content: "Putting a knowledge body or investigator on a suspect, accused, defendant, convicted one or more of the obligations provided for in part one of this article is carried out by sanctioning the prosecutor or his deputy." I do this in order not to allow the abuse of these duties on a suspect, accused, defendant, or convicted person by any completely investigative or knowledgeable body. I believe that this is an additional guarantee of human rights. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u133	Victor Dmitrovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u134	The committee rejected the amendment. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the 32th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin is now under way. The committee didn't support her. [[11:55:16]] For-123 The decision is not made. Amendment 33, Vladimir Oliynik. It's counted. Who has the warning? I can't see. Then let's put a plus. Amendment 34, Voropeyev and Oliynik. Counted. Who has the warning? None. Let's put a plus. Correction 35, Valery Beales. Partially counted. Who has the warning? Mikhail Chechtov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u136	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Please also place the 35 sessional room for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u137	Valerius Beales, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u138	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! What are you talking about? The 154th article on the one of the Criminal Procedure Code provides for a mortgage. The drafters of the bill provide bail for serious and particularly serious crimes. What is absolutely contrary to current legislation, the theory of state and law. What are we doing?Oh, my God! It was certainly appropriate to apply a bond regarding crimes of moderate gravity, a small severity. That's clear. And one more thing. This article stipulates that the perpetrator is obliged to bring the suspect to the appropriate authorities if he fails to fulfil his obligations. I'd like to see how the employer does it. That is, I propose serious changes in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u139	Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u140	Deputies! Zastava is one of the kind of precautionary measures. And from the point of view of the subject, the President passed a bill on the humanization of responsibility, the same humanitarianization should also apply to the investigation of criminal cases and the application of the means of procedural coercion. This is precisely the measure of precautionary action. The committee believes that the motivation with which the national deputy Behves addressed himself is not worthy of attention and cannot be taken into account. In our view, what the national deputy Behves is proposing is contrary to the notion of humanization of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, there's an amendment to the vote of 35, author Valérie Bevès. [[11:58:17]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. Amendment 36, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! We are considering a complex bill, but the essence of it is to make it dangerous today. And I want to say thank you to the committee that has been able to prepare and balance this bill, and our task is to adopt it in such a way, and to put every amendment to the vote now. And even those amendments that are not taken into account, it is not a big deal, our task today is to secure both Ukrainian policies and the Ukrainian economy, and then it will be a real outcome. Because decriminalization will not be adopted today, Timoshenko will not be free, we understand that there will be no normal legislative field, there will be no normal electoral process, there will be no normal situation in the country. So let's vote for the committee's version, take it in that form, and leave it to this black page. Today there is still a chance in the country to remedy the situation, and there is a chance in the country that we can actually humanize our legislative field, but not by imitating it, but by actually voting for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u143	So are you insisting on this amendment or not, Natalia Yuriovnlo? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u144	I don't insist. I said for the committee version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u145	Okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the author does not insist on this amendment. Yuri Carmazin, 37th Amendment Don't you insist on her? He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! I propose in article 154 pr. The first sentence of part five is deleted. That is: "In exceptional cases, if a judge determines that a default within defined limits does not ensure the performance of a person who is suspected or accused of committing a particularly serious crime, the mortgage may be applied in a size greater than 17,000 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens." [[Court]] [[paragraph 3 of Part Four of this article]] I'm making these changes in order to make it impossible to introduce standards that will promote the use of judges, and we've already seen what is Kiriev and Korjejev, which is a boy who is close to Ukraine, who is not to be protected at the expense of the state, spends the cost of supporting 20 pensioners. Because using such an evaluation concept as "in exceptional cases" and "does not ensure compliance" is the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u147	So what do we put 37 amendments to the vote? Victor Dmitrovich, shall we vote? Amendment 37 of Yuri Karmazin is being voted on. The committee turned her down. [[12:01:28]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. Amendment 38 Vladimir Oilynik, it is counted. No warning? I can't see. Let's put a plus. Amendment 39, Jaroslav Jojik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u148	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Part 8 of article 154 provides for the claimant’s right to waive his obligations to make a mortgage on the State’s income. In this case, he provides the appearance of a suspect in an investigation or court to replace him with a precautionary measure. [[accused]] The stop is only returned when a new precaution has been chosen. At the same time, the law indicates only the initial moment of the return of the pledge, not indicating the final. It is therefore suggested that the text should be provided, but not later than three days after the appearance of a suspect in an investigation or court to replace a precautionary action with another. [[accused]] Please support the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u149	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, this right, if accepted, violates the order of change in the precautionary measure established by law. Therefore, the committee suggests that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the 39th Amendment of Jaroslav Jódzik is put to the vote. The committee didn't count it. [[12:03:21]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have consulted the head of the committee here, since we have a break, we have come up with the only thought to announce the break. During the recess, we will continue to discuss the matter with you so that you can continue to consult with one another. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, we will continue to consider the bill. Please. We stopped. The 39th passed. So 40 amendments to Europe are included. Doesn't anyone insist? 41st European account. To confirm the 41st. I'm putting 41 amendments on confirmation. [[12:38:00]] For the Not confirmed. 42nd, Odarchenko. Partially counted. Odarchenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! Look what's going on in the session room right now. Usually, if the committee accepts some amendments, they do not view confirmation in the session room. Now most of the Party of the Regions insists that the remedies that the opposition imposes should be supported. They usually do. They don't usually pass. To this day, no adjustments have been made. This indicates that now the Party of Regions wants to leave this law on decriminalization as submitted by President Janukovic. I mean, on the one hand, to open up a political repression machinist, on the other hand, to create preferences for their structures that have business interests in the body of this decriminalization law. My ruling is that if the court decides to stay behind bars, it is a term for a person to leave after that term has passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u154	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u155	Dear friends, my ruling is that if a court decides to stay under a person's arrest, that term should end as soon as the term set by the court is over. Yuri Lucenko is behind bars for this very reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u156	Thank you. Yes, Victor Dmitrovich, is there anything about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u157	This was partially done by the committee. Please provide support in the form in which the committee proposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, amendment 42 is put to the vote to be taken into account. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:40:12]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Amendment 43, does the author insist on it? No, it's not. Amendment 44, accounted for. Please, Mikhail Chechtev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u159	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Requesting confirmation of 44 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u160	Yes, Victor Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u161	It's a technical tool. The national MP Voropeyev suggested that the phrase "in the form" should be changed to "in the form." We think it's more right -- "in the form," not "in the form."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u162	44 amendments shall be made to the vote. The committee counted it, so she votes for confirmation. [[12:41:13]] For-75 Correction not counted. Amendment 45. Feldman, Savechenko insist? No, it's not. The correction of Carmagine 46 is partially counted. Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin. Dear people's deputies, she's not really counted. And my suggestion is that the first part of the first rule should be deleted, namely, "in cases of crimes for which the law provides for a basic penalty of more than three thousand untaxed minimum citizens' incomes, only in cases where the suspect, the accused, the defendant has failed to perform the duties associated with the earlier application of a precautionary measure." And so on and so forth. This is based on the initiative proposed by the subject of article 149 prm. such duties are imposed, such as to inform the official or body in charge of which there is a criminal case of changing their place of residence or place of employment, and so on. That is, taking such a step as taking into custody of such obligations is unfair and unreasonable, since such action poses no serious threat. In addition, it is illogical and wrong to compare such punishments as deprivation of liberty and a fine in the application of a bribe under guard. And then paragraph 2 of this first part.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u164	Please, Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Carmazin rightly said that the committee did not really consider the bill, but suggested rejecting it. In our view, the proposal contained in the President's bill is more effective in balancing between humanism and the goals of the fight against crime. So please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u166	Vote 46 of Yuri Karmazin’s amendment. The committee considered it in part. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:43:19]] Z-85 Correction not supported. Amendment 47. She's insisting on it? No, it's not. Jojik, 48th, insists? Please, the microphone. Please wait, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Elina Shishkini's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u167	I raised my hand, so I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u168	I didn't notice. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u169	I am surprised at the position of simply a party of regions that doesn’t like women very much — one put in prison illegally and the other forced to give birth in prison. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider: I suggest that the precautionary measure of keeping in custody is not applied to women who have young children under three years of age or are in a state of pregnancy. This is a normal and completely acceptable offer. What's political? It is written that the proposal covers, and my amendment covers the proposal. It doesn't cover anything. Because a man who is previously not a judge will not go to S.I.A., but a woman who has a baby or is in a state of pregnancy, but who has a previous trial, who will go and have a baby there. Please tell me, what is it? You have forgotten the PARE recommendation*** 1469 2000 that states take all measures to prevent women from being born in prisons from being born because this can cause negative consequences. This position surprises me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u170	Victor Dmitrovich, one minute. Victor Dmitrovich, why is the committee's position negative?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u171	The committee has decided to reject this amendment, based on the fact that the drafter, the President of Ukraine, proposes precautionary measures in the form of a take-up, should apply only to persons who foresee punishment for more than five years. So it seems to us that this is a complete and complete version of the amendment that was made by the national deputy of Shishkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, there are 47 amendments to the vote. It has this kind of humanistic dimension. Please support the 47th amendment. [[12:45:40]] For 132 Correction not supported. Amendment 48. Jaroslav Jojik, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u173	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The practice shows that the strictest precaution is often unwarranted. Every fifth person taken into custody on various grounds is released from custody. Unwarranted use of seizure at the stage of pretrial investigation is estimated to weigh about 25 percent according to Minustu. [[Minoustu website]] Moreover, appropriate international legal acts also emphasize the priority given to the use of precautionary measures that do not involve taking in custody. In particular, the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Council of Europe points out that when it comes to deciding on a measure of willlessness, the court must answer the question: Is it possible to avoid applying this precautionary measure by establishing alternative measures? The change I propose will allow us to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u174	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u175	Making the change proposed will ensure that the decision is balanced when a precaution is taken against the suspect so that imprisonment is as a last resort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u176	Victor Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u177	The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u178	Puts the vote to the vote. Yes, the amendment is, it is. We're not discussing an amendment. We're not talking, we're voting. Then the vote is amended as follows: 48. [[12:47:53]] For-84 Correction not supported. Amendment 49, Voropeyev. Please, Chechtov microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u179	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Please place on confirmation 49 the amendment of the National MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u180	Is there a national MP who's going to justify, Voropeyev, his amendment? I can't see. Please take the seat of the committee, Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u181	It's completely technical again. It seems to us that the offer of a national MP is absolutely correct and heard. And that's why we're asking you to support this proposal. And the point is that the national deputy asks the phrase "not related to keeping the watch" to replace the phrase "not related to taking the watch." So this corresponds to the terminology used in the Criminal Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u182	The 49th Amendment, which is included, shall be put to the vote. So she's voting for confirmation. [[12:49:16]] For-94 Correction not counted. Amendment 50. Does the school insist on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u183	This amendment is somehow her. No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u184	Thank you. 51-a, don't you insist? And 52rd is yours, and 53rd is yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u185	No, no, this one, the next one I insist. That's what I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u186	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u187	Ah, the microphone's on. Excuse me. I insist. Because this is an article, part two of article 227, to complement the sentence with this phrase: "No change is allowed in the charge of a crime that has been decriminalized to another crime." I think it's totally humanitarian and absolutely correct, because if he failed to charge the opposition with one crime, he's infected with another article. So I think that in this situation, we have to get out of the fact that, if in this field, for example, it's exceeding the service obligations or responsibilities, or any other article, if it's decriminalized, there's no charge in this field. If there are other articles, please look. I think it's absolutely true, it fits the spirit and the letter of time. Thank you. I insist on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u188	51 amendments shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u189	Confront the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u190	[[12:50:58]] For 104 Correction not supported. Amendment 52.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u191	I insist. Yes. I insist. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Here, too, I am returning to what we have already talked about, limitedly condemned to expel persons. There can be no restriction on convicted persons. It's again, it's a trick to be able to make money for law enforcement personnel or to use this article against opposition by any authority, against any opposition. And I think that if we want a law that works to ensure that there are no criminals in Ukraine, rather than have a law that works to ensure that there is no democracy and opposition in Ukraine, this amendment needs to be adopted. And I'm also changing, or limiting, limited condemnation, or removing the notion of "limited condemnation," because there is no limit, there is, or a person can be condemned, or there is no. I've talked about this a number of times. And that's just the quality of legislation that improves at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, Andrew School's 52th Amendment votes. [[12:52:21]] For 109 Correction not supported. Amendment to 53 of the same content. There's no need to vote on it. 54th Amendment, Savechenko, Feldman. No, it's not. 55th, Feldman, Savechenko. No, it's not. 56th, Natalia Royal insists? No, it's not. 57th, Oily. Counted. Is there a denial? None. Let's put a plus. Carmazine, 58th. Are you insisting, Yuri Carmazin? He insists, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u193	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! My amendment relates to what is stated in article 162, Prim. I'm proposing that part one of the fines be adjusted. It records between 600 and 1,000 untaxed minimum citizens’ incomes of between 250 and 500 untaxed citizens. In the sanction of part two, change the fine from one thousand to three thousand by 500 to one thousand. In the third, it's going to change from 3,000 to 5,000 by thousands to 2,000. I'll give you a reason. The proposed changes, the size of the fines for such a misdemeanour, are too large and wrong with the nature of the offence. It should also be borne in mind that the Law on the Order of Settlements in a Foreign Currency provides for the payment of a penny for the amount of unreturned monetary income in the time limit established by this Law. That is, such large fines, along with a penny, can cause significant damage to the owner. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u194	Can we vote, Victor Dmitrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u195	Yes, the committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u196	The 58th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin is put to the vote. [[12:54:28]] For-94 Correction not supported. Amendment 59 is counted. Who has the claim to this correction? It doesn't, plus we put it. Amendment 60 — Valerius Behbelz. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u197	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I have to note with regret that a number of articles of the Criminal Code, including their qualifications, have now been translated into administrative legislation. 10 years ago on September 1, 2001, a new Ukrainian Criminal Code came into force, and now we are breaking whole chapters of the Criminal Code through our knees. Then let's make it simpler: we can abolish the Criminal Code completely and say that our country is the most democratic country, and it's long gone just to serve the interests of the oligarchs. There's nothing left for me to say, as it were, about what is being proposed here today by the profiling committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u198	Yes, Victor Dmitrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u199	Honorary colleagues, the Ukrainian President's project proposes some of the crimes that were in the Criminal Code and related to farm offences are transferred to the Code of Administrative Offences. By rejecting the deletion of the articles mentioned in the Criminal Code, the national deputy Beaz denied that the articles would be included in the Code of Administrative Offences. But this is the President's political decision, if the Supreme Council disagrees with this, then we need to support the proposal of the national deputy Behwaiz in the decriminalization of appropriate farm crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u200	The vote is amended as 60, the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u201	The committee turned her down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u202	Valerius Beales. She was rejected by the committee, as the committee head had said. [[12:56:53]] For-39 Correction not supported. Amendment 61, Carthage dismissed. Is Yuri Anatolyovich insisting on it? He insists. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u203	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Comrade Beaz is absolutely right because what we call the President's political decision is just a political winding up of big business and thieves who continue to export everything to the offshore today, to open accounts and then to bless us. And let's see what it turns out is technology and everything. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We're making this code under us. That's why people say, "Thank you to the Donbass people," and I don't want to insult the Donbass people because they made a mistake. I want to say that Bev is right, but I suggest that if you make such a stupid decision, don't make such big sanctions, and you write: between 500 and 1,000 untaxed minimum citizens' income. But people will be both uncondemned with you and other political ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u204	Victor Dmitrovich, is there anything to this?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u205	The committee finds it inappropriate to reduce the amount of the fine. In this regard, the committee rejected the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u206	61 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[12:58:42]] For-74. Correction not supported. Amendment 62 Vladimir Oliynik. Counted. Is there a warning to her? I can't see. Correction 63 Wallery Behwaaz. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u207	I'm sorry, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm not one of those categories that I like, but I want the Ukrainian people to know. This is article 203 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which provides for the use of prohibited forms of economic activity. We're transferring them to the category of administrative offences. So tomorrow an oligarch under the roof of one of his own businesses will be issuing narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, releasing weapons and saying that I will pay even a large fine under the current legislation, and we will thank the Supreme Council and especially our constitutional guarantor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u208	Dear colleagues! Perhaps the people's deputy is absolutely right when he gave such an assessment to this right, but given that the President passed a completely different bill, the committee believes that if the Supreme Council disagrees with this President's policy of humanizing criminal responsibility, then the Supreme Council can take any decision. The committee was in a position to support the bill on humanization. We deliberately did not add any additional articles there, we did not delete the articles proposed by the President, but only gave the Supreme Council the opportunity to adopt a final decision in plenary. Because we think that this is going to be not a legal decision, but a political decision. As for this amendment, the committee decided to reject it because it was contrary to the spirit of the Law on Humanization.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u209	The vote is amended by 63, the author by Valérie Bevès. [[13:01:10]] For 1052 Correction not supported. Amendment 64, Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her? He insists. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u210	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The article that is proposed to be decriminalized is a lack of a person’s obligation to privatize and continue to use public utilities or enterprises. Just think about it, the committee refuses me for that reason, and they say, "It's against the concept of the project." And right, it's against this concept, and it's also Beaz's colleague, and in this case, Yuri Carmazin is also against this concept. Against the fact that if you've already stolen an enterprise, follow the full terms of privatization, you've got to take it away from you. And now you want to do it forever. And then people would just say, "Thank you to the Donbass people." But it's not like they're stealing from these people. And now the railway is offered, the mines are all stolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, vote for Amendment 64, author of Carmazin. [[13:02:43]] For-138 No correction supported. Next amendment 65. Valerius Beales. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u212	Well, my proposal is the same as the one we just voted on, so I'm asking you only to put it to confirm. [[This is a proposal from the People's Deputy Karmazin.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u213	It's an amendment to the 65th vote. The committee turned her down. [[13:03:22]] For the 180. Correction not supported. Amendment 66, Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u214	Yuri Carmazin. You know, it's a strange concept in the law. If a person steals nothing like Julia Timoshenko or Yuri Lucenko, they have to sit under guard and everything. That's the concept. A Political Article Was Found! But when we were working on the Criminal Code for three years, in a terrible dream, we couldn't think that you'd take the 365th person into custody. But in your version, Azarov is supposed to stay away from the investigators. Send him to the Attorney General's Office. And we'll say, "Thank you to the Donbass people." You understand, in your version, the Kolesniks are supposed to stay away from the investigator! And to explain why the Olympics are twice as expensive, why Donetsk is so expensive, and to explain further. And you're not doing anything. As a result, illegal acts on privatisation papers – also acts that are not easy and which are directed against the people of Ukraine – should be criminalised.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u215	Puts to the vote 66 amendments. [[13:04:56]] For 131 Correction not supported. Amendment 67, Carmazin, do you insist on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u216	Yuri Carmazin. Of course, I insist, because it's about illegal acts in the event of bankruptcy, and it's about deliberately concealing property, property information, transferring property to other property, and so on. That is, especially dangerous crimes against the Ukrainian people, all that they want to exclude today. Dear, of course, "thank the Donbassians," because I will mention, Mr. Chechetov, that you were in charge of privatization at the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u217	Basically.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u218	And now you're leading the wave of your hand so there's no criminal responsibility. So the first phase was done, now phase two. So I realize that the best thing for us to do today is to hold our government accountable for prostitution. That would be really cool. But illegal acts in the event of bankruptcy, Your Honor, it is very serious to approach and support my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u219	There are 67 amendments to the vote. [[13:06:25]] For 118 Correction not accepted. 68 Amendment, Royal Natalia, insists on it? Microphone. None. Yes, the 69th Amendment. Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u220	Yuri Carmazin. Your Honor, you know, it's absurd. What we proposed was to change the title of this article and to humanize responsibility for, indeed, wrongdoing, not for systematic crimes against the Ukrainian people. I'm proposing in article 164 with a 16-in-part 2 badge that the words "were connected to income on a large scale" should be deleted. And also to exclude a footnote, which is that "receiving large-scale income is happening when its sum is a thousand times higher than the untaxed minimum of citizens' income," because I think it's a criminally punishable crime, and there's no administrative offence, as they want to show. And this is about, I remind you, illegal acts and bankruptcy. The whole country's bankruptcy is on its way because these people are running the government. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u221	Please, Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, the committee believes that the editorial that was adopted in the first reading is more correct, so the committee suggests that the amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u223	69 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:08:16]] For a hundred and The amendment is not accepted. Correction 70, Valery Beales. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u224	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reverend Viktor Dmitrovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm not left with the feeling that our country's president has been capitalized. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because if you wanted to carry on this disgrace, which is now very embarrassing to the head of the committee behind the rostrum. I get it. He's an experienced lawyer. He knows what he's in charge of right now. But at the same time, I want to say specifically in the article "Factual bankruptcy." Under these schemes, tens of thousands of objects have been stolen into the state, and now all we need to do is sanctify our decisions and ensure or ensure the peace of those who are currently playing five in the Canary. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u225	Yes, Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u226	I've spoken many times about these lines. Once again, I want to reiterate that the concept proposed by the President is supported by the majority of the Supreme Council, and it has to be responsible for the decisions it makes today. The committee suggested rejecting the law of the national deputy Behiz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u227	Amendment 70 shall be put to the vote. [[13:09:57]] For-143 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 71. Yuri Anatolyovich, are you insisting on her? Carmazine, insists, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u228	Yuri Carmazin. You know, Your Honor, Mr. Beales was absolutely right. Absolutely right, because the Administrative Code will now say that you can then bring administrative responsibility, if the damage is done, to the creditors or to the state. I suggested that administrative responsibility should be introduced, without cancelling the criminal, only if the damage caused was of a size not exceeding 500 untaxed minimum citizens' income. That's the only way. So let's split these things up. Of course, the right colleague Beales said that the president had been set up. I think we should thank the Donbassians, I think we should thank them, but I think we should support my amendment. And the project is true.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u229	Amendment 71 shall be put to the vote. [[13:11:29]] For 135 Correction not supported. Amendment 72 is counted by the Committee. Who has the warning of this amendment? None. Plus, let's put it on. Amendment 73. Valerius Beales, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, article 228 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is a force for anti-competitive concerted action. Very often such methods, indeed, our law enforcement agencies are not quite effective in this activity. But such actions are often used by members of organized criminal groups and are still being tried. Sadly, though, this article of the Criminal Code has been suggested to be decriminalized. Well, in that case, really soon, we're going to be laughing at the white world, not just Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u231	Victor Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u232	Honourable national MPs, in themselves the fact that the criminal article 228, which is currently being referred to, is hardly applied in practice in Ukraine, does not mean that this article should have been decriminalized. Because the fact that she was found in the Criminal Code is such a preventive one. And those who intend to commit a crime in this direction should seriously consider the criminal responsibility provided for in article 228. But the President of Ukraine decided differently. He believes that this article should be decriminalized. In view of the fact that the Supreme Council has already suppressed this concept in the first reading, the committee rejects, suggests rejecting the proposal made by the national deputy Behwaaz in connection with article 228.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u233	Volodymyr Moses, what is your correction? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u234	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. The Honourable Reporter and Valerius Ananiyovich are honorable, the author of the amendment, the trouble is that we are against the same decriminalization of fictitious bankruptcy. Privatizations and stuff. But this is about the Code of Administrative Violations. If we take responsibility from here, there will be nothing at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u235	The vote is amended as follows: 73 amendments. [[13:14:20]] For-103 Correction not supported. Amendment 74. Jaroslav Jojik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u236	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. By April 2003, the Criminal Code of Ukraine had provided for criminal responsibility for the conspiracy of artificial promotion and maintenance of monopolistic prices, tariffs, discounts, allowances, and the elimination of competition between business subjects in spite of antitrust legislation. In the new edition, a criminal offence is considered to be merely an coercion to anticompetitive concerted action, which is prohibited by the Law on the Protection of Economic Competition. Obviously, these two articles differ greatly in their content. In the first case, the very fact of price fixing or price retention is punished; in the second, it is necessary to force such acts into one of the subjects of another’s activities. In this regard, we consider it appropriate to make changes to provide for the responsibility of anticompetitive entities that are prohibited.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u237	Jaroslav Ivanovich, finish your formulation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u238	I'm asking my colleagues to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u239	Victor Dmitrovich, is there anything on the committee on this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, the committee supported the editorial that was voted on in the first reading. In this regard, we suggest that number 74 be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u241	The vote is amended by 74, author Jaroslav Jódzik. [[13:16:16]] For-103 Correction not supported. Andrew School, 75th. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u242	Yes, yes, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u243	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u244	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, it's just me, I understand that it's going to be here, the same as the fate of the amendment as the previous one, according to the regulatory changes in the Rules Act. However, I do not see the logic in the actions of the author of the law, or President of Ukraine. When the responsibility is removed, it is full, even administrative, of resorting to conspiracy, of resorting to anticompetitive monopolistic conspiracies. And here, when it comes to fictitious entrepreneurship, when we say there's a fictional enterprise that's causing damage, we have to take full responsibility. But when it didn't cause any damage, when a person who is accused of fictitious entrepreneurship simply has or forgets, there are a lot of such cases. Recently, 120 armed Berkuts in our colleague, Eugene Suslov, were looking for some kind of seal from an enterprise. Do you understand? And here we were told that it was evil. So I think this is where I need to support my correction in this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u245	Puts to the vote 75 amendments. [[13:17:46]] For a hundred and Correction not accepted. Amendment 76, Savchenko, Feldman. Declined. Are they insisting? No, it's not. Jacinka, 77th. No, it's not. Royal, 78th. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u246	Dear colleagues! I can see that no amendment that makes any sense to this bill is supported, but I want to inform you. That by amendment 78, I want to prevent the legalization of fraud. Now you're doing everything you can to legalize fraud in the country. But at the same time, leave Julia behind. This amendment and the article you are proposing cancels the administrative responsibility for producing and selling non-standard products. I mean, we're still selling milk that's long gone without cow's milk, oil that's long gone without proper and normal fat. We've had fake drinks a long time ago. And that's how it filled the internal market. So now, by lifting the administrative responsibility, you're just legalizing all the fraudsters. That's why you don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u247	Please, Victor Dmitrovich, what's the point?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u248	The committee decided to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u249	There is 77 amendments to the vote, the author is Natalia Kraljevska. That's 78 revisions. [[13:19:39]] For the 110. Dear colleagues, we voted on the 78th amendment. Yes, now 79 amendments, the author is Tolstenko. It's counted. Please, Chechtov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u250	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Request for confirmation 79 of the amendment of the People’s Deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u251	Yes, will the amendment be based on it? No, it's not. Puts to the vote to confirm Amendment 79. [[13:20:25]] For-75 Correction not supported. The '80s, Tolstenko. Is he insisting on the amendment? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, 81st, don't you insist? Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u252	Yuri Carmazin. You know, I get up every morning and say, "Oh, my God! Thank the Donbass people for getting up, that's all."Well, otherwise we wouldn't have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u253	Please, by subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u254	That's why. That's me on the subject. I am sad that no amendment is supported, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I wonder why there's a committee then. But I'd like to put your weight back on the 155 with badge 2. It suggests that I leave it in its proper form. It's like, "Measuring, weighing, calculating, exceeding established prices and tariffs, or other lies to buyers or customers." I would like to stress that prices and tariffs have been exceeded! Today you take the city of Kyiv – around the price exceeded. Beresh Odessa's tariffs are exceeded. Beresh Doneteck, Lugansk – the tariffs are exceeded. You're taking "Heopov" Stan or Kharkiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u255	What are we going to vote in 81st, Victor Dmitrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u256	The committee proposes to reject this amendment, since the first reading voted on an editorial proposed by the President of Ukraine, and the committee considers it to be more successful than the one proposed by the national deputy Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u257	81 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:22:21]] For 112 Correction not supported. Amendment 82. Carmazine insists. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u258	Yuri Carmazin. I'm sorry, Vladimir Mikhailovich, because I'm being told what to thank the residents of Donbas. And I don't always agree with them, because we have to thank them. And thank you. Because I think today and in Europe they take it very seriously, you know, it's not funny yet. I propose in article 164, in part two, to delete the words "or large-sized income," and to delete the footnote, namely, "large-scale income income collection takes place when the amount is a thousand times higher than the untaxed minimum income of citizens." Because when it comes to raising tariffs, it is necessary to answer only in criminal order, exclusively. It's not a joke, it's against the entire Ukrainian people today. And there's no sign of Mikola Janovich Azarov. And I'd like him to look here, not just give.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u259	Shall we put 82 amendments to the vote? Please be sure. [[13:23:54]] For a-117. Correction not supported. Amendment 83. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u260	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would still like to hear a call from Bank's great friend and Democrat, my colleague Chechtev, to support the committee's choice. Although I don't really like everything the committee did. But at least I really don't want government officials who are now making a political decision to sign a deal with the Russian Federation, and Azarov is coming here, and he's waiting for him with the bonds. Well, what is it, is it normal? This political decision can be understood, he has always stood up for the position of the Russian Federation and is a representative of the government of the Russian Federation. Because of this, please think of it as 165 you're interested in canceling, because until it's signed, we're not going to apply to your Azarov. And I'd like you to consider the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u261	Vote 83 of Yuri Karmazin’s amendment. [[13:25:26]] For 115 Correction not supported. Amendment 84. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u262	Yuri Carmazin. I, the honourable people's deputies, really, thank you. Mr. Rabbit, sit down. I thank the Donbassians. Thank you. So the second part in article 163 is to delete and also delete the footnote, because it is about securities and size, about handling, and also about the placement of securities on a large scale without their registration or issuance in a legal order by an authorized person. Pure service crime, pure and complete. And you're still talking, obviously, for a different purpose, and you're talking about what it should be in the Administrative Code. I'm definitely against it, and I suggest we rule it out. Well, of course, thank the Donbassians for supporting our amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u263	The 84th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin votes. [[13:26:56]] For the 120th. Correction not supported. Amendment 85 of Carmazine. Microphone. About what? Now, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u264	85 revisions provide for changes to article 163 with a 7. I propose a part two and a footnote to delete, namely, "Acts envisaged in part one of this article, involving income on a large scale, which entail the imposition of a fine of between one and two thousand untaxed minimum citizens' incomes." As a matter of fact, distinguished national MPs, please think about it. We've been amending the Code of Administrative Offences, and we've had this code for 50 years. 50 years! And the government keeps putting little or little dots in there. We don't want to rewrite it at all. Again, I am offered thanks, and I will not thank the residents of Donbass for giving such a one to Azar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u265	Microphone, please. 85 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[13:28:16]] For the 180. Correction not accepted. Scuddar George's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u266	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Respectable deputies present! I'm tired of hearing this hammock statement about the workers and residents of the city. Donbassa. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm telling you again, there are 7 million people in Donbass! Donbass produces three times as much per capita as in Kiev! Ten times as much as in Western Ukraine! And you really should be grateful to this working people for what they do. It is not lawful for anyone to mock the people. If anyone doesn't like any of the Donbass residents, please call your last names, but do your hamster thing. With respect to the entire people, you'll excuse me. [[B in m in s a l in]] This laugh of yours, this sarcasm of yours, let all the residents of Donbass hear you act and then you come and crawl and ask them to look after you. It's not pretty, people are good, it's not fair at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u267	Dear colleagues, I urge you to be tolerant and listen to the thinking of a person who is obviously entitled to express his point of view. Let's work. Amendment 86, Andrew School, do you insist on it? No, it's not. Right, 87, Feldman, Savechenko, Yatzenko? No, it's not. Amendment 88 is not. Andrew School, 89th. Microphone, please. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u268	Yeah, yeah, one second, one second. No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u269	No, it's not. Tolstenko, 90 readjustments counted. No one's insisting on her? No, it's not. Repair 91, Beavez. No, it's not. Yes, Amendment 92 of the Oilman is included. No one's insisting on her? No, it's not. Correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u270	I'm asking. Well, the '90s, please. Please, calm down, Your Honor. 90th, please, Mikhail Chechtov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u271	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, requests for confirmation of the amendment of the 90 people’s deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u272	The vote is based on amendment 90, which is considered by the committee, to the request of the national MP. She's voting for confirmation. [[13:31:19]] For-140. Correction not supported. The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 0, "BUT" is 101, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 37, and the Communists are 0, "Reforms for the Future" is 0, "The People's Party" is 0, "The People's Party" is 2. Amendment 93, School. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u273	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this amendment is also part of the list of amendments that are humanizing, actually humanizing the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. So the process of humanization is happening. Rather than allowing criminals to escape responsibility, the possibility is for law enforcement authorities to use the Criminal Code to make money on businesses and businesses. So I would like to make sure that this is put to the vote. I'd like it to be, it's a vote, it's a check, because it's a really important amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u274	Please, Victor Dmitrievich, if there's anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u275	Dear colleagues, it's also one of those amendments that actually has the right to exist and they really do relate to the humanization of criminal responsibility. Sadly, though, this article is criminal. was not included in the President's draft, so the committee had no opportunity and had no opportunity to include it in the table. In this regard, the committee rejects her. Only because of regulatory standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u276	93 amendments are put to the vote. [[13:33:04]] For-140. By factions, please: Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 102, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 36, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, "The People's Party" – 0, non-fractional – 2. Amendment 94, Andrew School, do you insist on it? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u277	I insist on voting because. I understand, I say again, I don't appeal to the committee right now and to the head of the committee, I appeal to the session hall, because I would like the representatives of the majority who are responsible for their actions in the hall, and for the activities of the government and the president of Ukraine, they are. In fact, it will now be determined whether to humanize Ukrainian legislation, to bring it to European standards, or to leave it to what it is now. That is, to give reasons for pressure on small and medium-sized businesses so that law enforcement officials get not a large salary, but a large income at the expense of a small business. So I would like to simply, in the name of honest law enforcement officials, to clean up the articles that give reasons for being able to influence entrepreneurs. I'd like to put this to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u278	There is 94 amendments to the vote. [[13:34:43]] For-143 Correction not supported. 95 revisions. It's counted by the committee. Mikhail Chechtov's microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u279	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Request for confirmation of 95 amendments made by the distinguished national MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u280	Dear Victor Dmitrovich, please explain the importance of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u281	Dear colleagues! Now we've moved on to that chapter that's relevant. Dear colleagues, we have now moved on to that chapter concerning the Criminal Code of Ukraine. In the bill proposed by the President of Ukraine, 16 articles are being decriminalized. And that's exactly where the articles of the Criminal Code are listed in the section "Lord Crimes," which the President proposes to remove from the Criminal Code. I also proposed that article 365 be deleted along with these 16 articles. My suggestion is that the President proposes to humanize criminal legislation by decriminalizing 16 articles and a large group of articles. Humanitarianism, article 365. I suggest that it be humanized by introducing a new version of article 365 with the 3 badge provided in row 195. Thus, my remedy does not have to do with criminal liability.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u282	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u283	And liberated government officials. On the contrary, my law provides that criminal responsibility will necessarily be attracted to civil servants and, in general, officials in cases of overstatement of official authority, but only if they act in a corrupt manner. In this regard, I ask that this amendment be supported, and the committee has supported this amendment. And I ask, honourable national deputies, to support the committee's decision and to include in the list of articles that are being deleted from the Criminal Code, and in article 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u284	Dear colleagues, the proposal has come to realize that this amendment will then be revealed in the following amendments. The committee counted it. I'm voting on the proposal to confirm Amendment 95. [[13:37:43]] For-157. The factions, please. The Regional Party is 0, "BUT – Fatherland". [[B in m in s a l in]] "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 49, Communists – 0, Reforms for the Future – "The People's Party" is 0, "Afterfaction" is 3. [[B in m in s a l in]] Amendment 96, which is also considered by the committee. The authors are Tarasyuk, Koval, Blackwolf. Please, Mikhail Chechtev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u285	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Request for confirmation of the amendment of the three distinguished national deputies, Amendment 96. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u286	Please select the authors of the amendment. Alexander Blackwill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u287	Dear friends! Alexander Blackwolf. I want to tell you that right now we've reached the point where it's obvious to everyone that the talks that this power, the President and so on about some European choice, that we're going somewhere in Europe, now it has a great cross on it. So now, from these votes that we are now following these amendments, except for 365 articles in the Criminal Code, we're going to show whether Ukraine is ready to become a modern European and not just a European state, but a civilized state. So I can see that there's a tendency that's not going to happen. Still, we must fight for it. So I would still ask once again the members of the Party of the Regions to think about not committing crimes against Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u288	Dear colleagues, Amendment 96 applies to confirmation. [[13:39:54]] For-46 Correction not supported. Amendment 97 is partially taken into account by the Committee. It also refers to 365 articles. Is there a Royal Natalia? Please, Karmazin. I'm sorry, Mikhailo Chechetov. Then there's Natalia Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u289	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! We also ask for confirmation of amendment 97 of Royal Natalia to confirm the session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u290	Natalia Juryovno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u291	Dear colleagues! We have now seen how the 95 amendments have not been voted on, where it has been clearly indicated that by adopting 95 amendments, we would have achieved the release of the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko. You're scared. You're holding Julia in prison today because you're afraid of real political competition. And you're really afraid of losing your power. Therefore, there is no point in considering either the amendment further or the law. Because it will all be legalized by your theft, your deception, your blackmail and your fear. And this law has nothing to do with justice reform and has no desire to restore political stability in the country today. You've received a political default. You'll get an economic default. And that's all on your soul and responsibility. And this is the end of the conversation under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u292	Thank you. Dear colleagues, amendment 97 is put to the vote to confirm it. Please vote. [[13:41:51]] For-35 Correction not supported. What, what? Well, here's the thing. Dear colleagues, the BUIT faction demands, he asks, he offers. One minute! Take a moment to consider this issue, so that they can make a statement. And then we'll continue to consider the question, because we have to finish it. So given that we don't want to cause a disturbance, I'd ask you to agree not to vote for the faction to make a statement on this matter. Is there no objection? Please, Andrew Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u293	Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like to remind you that today, under the demand of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, "The Fatherland", a daily bill was put into order, which should have brought our criminal legislation to international and European democratic standards. After today’s vote, which will take place, all that has already taken place in the 95th article, it became clear that both in Ukraine and beyond the illusion of democracy of human rights and freedoms, the rule of law, and European values have been blown apart as smoke. So it is necessary to clearly and unequivocally record this day in history -- authoritarianism has been legalized in the country completely and completely. Today, Ukraine must clearly forget about freedom of speech, the independence of the courts, true parliamentaryism, and in Ukraine the European choice has been stolen. Because totalitarianism, much like the Middle Ages, is not accepted by a civilized European family. In future generations, the future is essentially stolen. We clearly claim, by physical, moral, political, and legal destruction of the pride of Ukraine’s Yulia Tymoshenko, you will have nothing to gain. On the contrary, against the will of lawlessness, the oppression of all things, and all things, the people, are already rising. You still had a chance today to undo the shameful steel articles that have been used for decades against leaders of public opinion. However, as a result of the vote, he demonstrated. Ukrainian society, the international community of the Party of Regions and its political satellite in the Supreme Council play only the role of service staff and create the visibility of criminal law reform. In fact, they are a blind tool in the power of the name Yanukovic, which brings Ukraine to a political ruin. That is why the article was left in the hands of the authorities. Today’s vote in the session room has left no doubt that the authorities are not going to give up political repression. The Yulia Timoshenko faction, Fatherskina, claims that as a sign of protest, we are now leaving the House of Parliament, which has completely lost its mandate as a legislative body and has become a tool for legitimizing illegal and anti-national decisions. But we never stop fighting for our leader, for Ukraine, for democracy. Behind you is the chasm, behind us is the Ukrainian people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u294	Dear colleagues! The chairman of the committee, Viktor Dmitrovitch Sweden, gives me the right to continue to announce the amendments here. And since we're finishing the morning session, we've agreed with you, dear colleagues, that we will vote on the proposal to work at the evening session before the finalization of Tuesday's scheduled issues. That's why we need to vote on this proposal right now. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I'm voting for an extension of the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, perhaps for a few hours? Let's finish our consideration of the issues scheduled for Tuesday, 15 November, and see. Please vote. And the great night, and the electoral law, stands. [[13:46:58]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the amendment. Now we're going to continue with the law, and we're going to continue the morning session for 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, 99, Amendment 98 is rejected. Don't you insist on her? No, it's not. 99, it's taken into account. Please, Mikhail Chechtev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u295	Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, request for confirmation of amendment number 99 of the distinguished national MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u296	Yuri Carmazin, microphone. It's your repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u297	Yuri Carmazin. The amendment concerns the deletion of article 365, and therefore the modification of article 112, part one, paragraph 3.5. Turn off the figure 365. I was asked why I thank the residents of Donbass. I explain, for the frame, life is improving for us. Thank you, Donbass residents! For evicting orphans from the Artemov Children's House last week, and for that, thank you, not to Donbass residents, where my grandfather was buried. And I'm in charge of those MPs who are doing everything they can to get everyone out of Donbass, and that's the order to do it here today. Vote for decriminalization 365.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u298	Yes, dear fellows, I beg you, let's make substantive amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u299	I'm basically. Please don't comment, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u300	No, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, and I'm not telling you, Yuri Anatoliovich, that you've moved on from the state language, I'm not saying anything. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u301	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u302	I see. Dear colleagues, I'm putting 99 amendments to the vote to confirm it. [[13:49:32]] For -14 Correction not supported. Amendment 100. Yavorowski. No, it's not. Beams, 101 repairs. Are you insisting on her? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u303	I'm sorry, Vladimir Mikhailovich, but I will return to the words that the National MP Moses said. Structurally, the bill is designed to confuse both the people and us, the people's deputies. At first, we've been thinking about making changes to the Criminal Procedure, then to the Administrative, and now we're going back to the Criminal Code. But here I would like to emphasize, look, there are 5 articles of the Criminal Code, 203 "Activities of banned economic activity" – once, 208 "Illicit opening of foreign currency accounts" – two, 218 "Figurative bankruptcy" – three, 228 "Forcing anti-competitive concerted action" – four, and 235, which we talked about, article of the Criminal Code "On non-fulfillment of conditions in privatization of state and municipal property". Five articles of the Criminal Code. Dear colleagues, can you tell me, at least one of these articles of the Criminal Code has something to do with the workers, the peasants, the people employed? These are all the criminal articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u304	Finish yours, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u305	These are articles of the Criminal Code that are being decriminalized to cover the back of the oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u306	Dear colleagues, there are 101 amendments to the vote. [[13:51:20]] For-35 Correction not supported. 102nd. Pinchuck, do you insist? No, it's not. 103rd. Yuri Carmazin, isn't he insisting? He insists. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u307	Yuri Carmazin. Absolutely right colleague Beavez. You know, it hurts to see you destroy the criminal field that the Criminal Code has defined. Because of this article 222, I propose not to exclude, leave it in its proper form. I'll remind those who have forgotten what it's called "The Breakdown of Business and Financial Services" is part of the second. Here it is about gaining income on a large scale, when it is worth 1,000 times more than the untaxed minimum income of citizens. This is evidence of social danger in such activities. Therefore, such acts should be criminalized, not administrative misconduct, in view of the requirements of article 11 of the Criminal Code. Decriminalization of this crime can lead to increased business activity without registration, license.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u308	Dear colleagues, there are 103 amendments to the vote. [[13:52:55]] For -8 Correction not supported. 104 revisions. Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u309	Yuri Carmazin. I don't know, some Communists said they were in this position. In Amendment 104, I propose in Article 218 that we not exclude and leave it in its proper form. And this is about fictitious bankruptcy. This is a matter of major material damage to the creditor or to the State. This is about the presence of signs of social danger in such activities. Therefore, such acts must be declared a crime, not an administrative offense. That's why I've been thanking the Donbassians, that it's only in the interests of big business, only in the interests of those who can run a fictitious enterprise, not in the interests of the entire Ukrainian people. As a result, I propose to consider my amendment and not to touch article 218 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u310	I'm betting on the vote of 104 Yuri Karmazin. [[13:54:23]] For-31 Correction not supported. Amendment 105 Yuri Karmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u311	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 105. You can see what it's about. We accept the codes and, indeed, it was correctly said that they were scattered. This amendment applies to article 220. I suggest you leave it in its proper form. This is the concealment of a stable financial incompetence by a Ukrainian citizen, a founder or a ministerial servant, a business entity. It's an owl to be responsible for providing unreliable information if it's caused a lot of material damage to the creditor. As a result, I believe that this article should remain in the Criminal Code. Thank you. Please support this proposal. In this connection, article 112 of the CPC does not exclude the figure “220. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u312	The vote is set to 105 amendments. [[13:55:53]] For-7. Correction not supported. Amendment 106. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u313	Yuri Carmazin. The point is that Amendment 106 refers to changes to Article 221. I propose not to exclude this article, leave it in its proper form, namely, "Illicit acts in the event of bankruptcy," it's about deliberately concealing property, property information, transferring property to another property. The point is that, the citizens of Ukraine, and including when I thanked the people of Donbas, I meant what they were already seeing, what they were seeing, what was going on, what was going on. As a result, they will see that this article is directed against all Ukrainians, and so is Donbas, because if there is an illegal act in the event of bankruptcy, it will apply to every single person who will not be able to get his share of property or wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u314	The vote is set to 106 amendments. [[13:57:21]] For-7. Correction not supported. Amendment 107, Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u315	The amendment concerns article 223. I propose not to exclude it and leave it in its proper form. This is about placing securities without registering them. Think, please, what a serious crime this is. And by introducing this new part into article 163 of the Code of Administerment, the offence envisaged in article 223 is decriminalized, which is unwarranted, dangerous in view of the fact that an authorized person has committed such an act, provided there is such a classification mark as to a significant extent, as evidenced by the presence of signs of social danger in such acts. Therefore, such acts should be declared a crime, not an administrative offense, in view of the requirements of article 11 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Decriminalizing it may lead to increased illegal activities in the circulation of securities, various affairs with them, which in turn would lead to violations of the rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u316	The vote is amended as follows: [[13:58:52]] For -8 Correction not supported. Amendment 108, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u317	Yuri Carmazin. The 108 amendment relates to the fact that I propose not to rule out article 234, leaving it in its original form. For those who do not currently have the text, I remind them that this article refers to illegal acts concerning the privatization of privatization papers, including the kidnapping of privatisation papers. Now, please think about the usual theft of responsibility, and the kidnapping of the privatisation papers, which was supposed to take away the will from three to seven years, will no longer form a crime composition at all, according to the Party of the Regions. As a result, I believe that such acts in privatization are evidence of signs of social danger and should therefore be considered a crime. I'm asking you not to joke and show Karmazin's picture. I don't look like it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u318	Thank you. 108 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'm making a note. [[14:00:24]] For-35 Correction not supported. Correction 109, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u319	109 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. It's kind of hard for an operator to catch me today. I don't know what it is. I'm not a "basket" yet, and please don't show me. And I will never be. As a result, Amendment 109, Article 235, I propose not to exclude or leave it as a valid text. It is a matter of failing to satisfy a person’s obligation to privatize public utilities or businesses and to use them further. Think of it, people of the nation, think of all the people of Ukraine and the people of Donbas, think of it! You have a business that is stolen, and you do not comply with the conditions that you have committed to privatization. What should we do then? Reprivatization, return everything and punish! So it's suggested that we forgive those who privatized illegally. I mean, break it all, grab it, it's your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u320	The vote is set at 109 amendments. [[14:01:59]] For the 10th. Correction not accepted. 110th. School doesn't insist. 111th. Valerius Beales, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u321	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I propose that article 12 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine should be left in the proper form of the Criminal Code. [[It's a crime classification.]] At the same time, I would like to point out that the drafters propose to apply a fine as a major measure of punishment for serious and particularly serious crimes, which undermines the logic of the very classification of crimes and criminal law in general. I'm sorry. It's vandalism.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u322	Amendment 111 shall be put to the vote. [[14:02:57]] For-38 Correction not counted. Amendment 112, Voropeyev. Counted. Microphone, Mikhaila Chechtova
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u323	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Request for confirmation of amendment 112 of the distinguished national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u324	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 112. It's taken into account by the committee, it needs to be confirmed. [[14:03:36]] Z-11. The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 113. It's counted by the committee. Is there a denial? Mikhail Chechtov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u325	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, also requests for confirmation of amendment 113 of the distinguished national MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u326	Puts the vote to the vote. Well, you're not the author of the amendment. Well, what's wrong? He can demand it, he can put it. Well, please, Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u327	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! This is a general part of the Criminal Code. And the national MP Moses, who may also have been a good Chief Justice, if we had brought him up, suggests that after the words "freedom" be added with the words "for a certain term." [[Judge of the Supreme Court]] Because with the Criminal Code, there is such a concept and punishment as "freedom for a certain term." So that's what you need when it comes to the legal purity of the project. Vladimir Mikhailovich, look at the conclusion of the expert office and you'll see it's necessary. So, Mr. Michaelo, take off your amendment, it does not apply to Timoshenko in this case. Even though she's sitting there illegally, you know that. And take off your amendment, and let it be taken into account at least a little bit of legal cleanness by some stupid person in this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u328	Amendment 113 shall be put to the vote for confirmation. [[14:05:32]] For the five of us. No correction supported. 114th, School. I can't see. 115th, School. None. 116th, Moses. None. Please, Mikhail Chechtev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u329	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, request confirmation of 116 amendments made by the distinguished national MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u330	Puts a 116 vote to confirm it. [[14:06:14]] For the five of us. Correction not counted. Corrigendum 117 Vladimir Moses. It's counted. Please, Mikhail Chechtev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u331	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, has also been asked to make a confirmation of amendment 117 by the distinguished national MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u332	There is 117 amendments to the vote to confirm it. [[14:06:50]] For -6 No correction supported. Voropeyev, 118th. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Savechenko, 119th. No, it's not. 120th, Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u333	Yuri Carmazin. It's very sad that everything that's better in this law is being deleted. I, in my amendment to the 120th Amendment, amend article 53 of the Criminal Code, in part two, propose the deletion of the sentence "For the commission of a crime for which a basic penalty is imposed in the form of a fine of more than 3,000 untaxed minimum citizens' income, the amount of the fine imposed by the court may not be less than the amount of property damage caused by the crime or resulting from the commission of a crime of income irrespective of the marginal amount of the fine provided for by the sanction of an article of a particular part of the Code." This is my argument that the task of the Criminal Code is to motivate a person not to commit crimes again in the future, to punish him, not to compensate for the harm caused by crime, which is the task of other forms of responsibility. Moreover, the size of a fine as a criminal punishment should be determined by law, and the court should impose such a fine exclusively within the limits provided for in the relevant article as a specific part of the Criminal Code. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u334	I'm betting on a vote of 120. [[2:08:25]] For -6 No correction supported. 121 readjustments. Is there no objection? I can't see. Amendment 122 included in part. Is there no objection? Mikhail Chechtov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u335	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Request for confirmation of amendment 122 of the distinguished national MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u336	Valerius Ananiyovich Bebelz, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u337	Dear colleagues! I'm just short for you to understand what this is about. Article 53 of the Criminal Code provides for a fine, the lowest criminal penalty, from 30 to thousands of untaxed minimum citizens. The subject of the legislative initiative proposes a ceiling of 50,000 untaxed citizens. In absolute terms, it's 850,000 greaves. Please tell me, which of the individuals who engage in entrepreneurial activities can pay such a fine? I didn't pay you to go to jail for 12 years. Although the law is now in force, it has not been possible to pay a fine — two years of corrective work. I mean, if we're already writing in the law that this is humanization, then where is this humanization then? Where's the logic?Oh, my God! Sorry, but it's not the law, it's some cripple on two legs, listen!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u338	Amendment 122 shall be put to the vote. [[14:10:18]] For-34 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 123 of Vladimir Yavorowski is partially taken into account. Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u339	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Request for confirmation of national deputy Yavorovsky number 123. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u340	I'll bet you a vote on 123 of the amendment. [[14:10:56]] For two. The amendment is not accepted. 124th is Moses. Don't insist. 125th. Don't insist. 126th -- Odarchenko. No, it's not. 127th, Valery Beales. Is he insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u341	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This is about smuggling. [[201 Article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine]] Hence, the drafters explain their initiatives to transfer this category of criminal offences to the category of administrative offences because criminal cases do not come to trial. To date, 298 criminal cases have been committed. But the question is, why aren't these criminal cases coming to trial? Because echelons of goods like this disappear in criminal proceedings. More than that, only from cigarette smuggling, and it gets into a commodity, as it were, is 40 billion dollars lost by the state. Organized crime and terrorism feed on 1 out of every 4 dollars. And we're in the world, and we're on our way to decriminalizing this type of crime -- well, I, I don't even have anything to say in this case, except what I'm saying right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u342	The vote shall be amended by 127. [[14:12:33]] For-33 Correction not accepted. 128 revisions. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u343	Yuri Carmazin. You know, I'm so sorry you didn't listen to the words of the well-deserved General Beales. The thing is, things don't come to trial solely because of corruption, because of the corruption component. Why didn't he say it, I don't know. And it's not just that smuggling is being decriminalized. It's about letting smugglers who are already behind smuggling get out of their homes. Why? It's Timoshenko sitting down or Lucenko sitting down -- they didn't take anything, but those who got it -- please. Because of this, I am definitely against removing and decriminalizing in this way, I'll say more. For three years, when we worked on the Criminal Code, the issue of decriminalization was raised. What suggestions did you make? That you'd never have to work, neither you nor your children. So I'm asking, who's doing this for the "brothers" now, doing this article?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u344	Amendment 128 shall be put to the vote. [[14:14:05]] For-27 The amendment is not accepted. Shishkina, 129th Amendment. Don't insist. Yavorowski, 130th. Don't insist. Moses, 131 revisions counted. Mikhail Chechtov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u345	Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, requests for confirmation of article 131 of the distinguished people’s MP Moses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u346	The vote shall be adopted by 131 amendments to the approval. Please be sure. [[14:14:52]] For-7. Correction not supported. Amendment 132. Is he insisting on her? No, it's not. 133 and 134 revisions are included. Any comments on 133 revisions?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-15-m0.u347	I've already announced 133 and 134, we're about to finish. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. At 16:00 we continue to consider this bill with 133 amendments.
