ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:54]] Cards were registered in the 414 members of the National Assembly Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our national deputy, our colleague Prasolonov Igor Mikolaiovich. Please welcome him and wish him success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the February 3, 2011, plenary meeting. 30 questions on the agenda were considered: 11 laws and 9 regulations were passed, 3 bills were adopted on the basis, one bill was returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, one bill was returned to the committee for further consideration and 5 bills were rejected; two laws were adopted in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. “hour of questions to the Government. ” Representatives of the MPs made a proposal: during the "hour of questions to the Government" to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on housing and utility reform. Deputies: “The Yulia Timoshenko Block – Fatherland” and the Communist Party of Ukraine, based on part six of article 229 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council regulation, have been informed in advance by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about questions they would like to receive comprehensive answers. Ladies and gentlemen, answering the questions of the Ukrainian National Deputies today will be the first Deputy Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Hivrich Yuri Jerovich. Other representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are also present. Dear colleagues, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine set out such an order for a “hour of questions to the Government”. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are asked about and answered by MPs for up to 30 minutes. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are held for up to 30 minutes at the request of the National Deputies. It is suggested that you ask questions for up to 1 minute and answer questions for up to 2 minutes. Is there no objection? Sergei Sass, was there something you wanted to say? Sergei Sasa's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, Sergey Sas, faction of "The Yulia Block Timoshenko – "The Fatherland". Vladimir Mihajlovich, last time we spent a government day, I drew your attention to the following: according to part two of Rule 229 of the Rules and Article 35 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers during the “hour of the Government” meeting of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine participates, and the deputies do not refer to members of the Cabinet of Ministers in full composition, except those members who cannot be present for important reasons. Vladimir Mikhailovich, does our Cabinet of Ministers not respect the law or respect the Supreme Council or respect you personally? And the last time you gave an order, the Cabinet of Ministers would be fully present. How long will this go on? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u3	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, I inform you that a meeting with the Prime Minister of Ukraine took place on Wednesday. We also discussed this issue and agreed that from the following, I mean, not this one, but from the following Friday the plenary will do everything to complete the Law on Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the Law on Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. On this Friday, unfortunately, they have not yet been able to gather all and anticipate that ministers are not on board, and much of them are now in Poland as a delegation headed by the President of Ukraine. So I'm informing you, dear colleagues, that I have not forgotten the observation that our colleague Sregio Sas made the previous time, we just need some time to train everyone to abide by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rules. True, we will make sure that everyone is not on a mission on Friday. Dear colleagues, is there no objection to the organization of the "hours of questions to the Cabinet of Ministers" now? None. I will then invite Hivrich Yuri Yegorovich. At the same time, I'm informing you, dear colleagues, that Victor Tikhov, Vice Prime Minister, is on his way out, and I've negotiated with the factions on this matter. [[Tyres]] "BUT – Fatherland", "Our Ukraine" and "The People's Self-Defense" agreed that there is no need to substitute, given the wickedness and relevance of the issue. Please, let's do it this way. One question you will read from "BUT – Fatherland", a substitute question from the Company's faction, will be replaced. Half an hour on written questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the Party of the Regions did not ask any written questions. It will be possible, fellow believers, to ask questions in direct communication. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me answer the questions that have been asked. First question. “According to the National Reform Programme, housing and utility development voted by representatives of the current parliamentary majority, about 6 billion dollars were planned for this year. In the 2011 approved budget, 7 million -- from the general fund and 100 million -- from a special budget. How will the government reform this year?" What I'm saying is that, in fact, in the program, the state-wide reform programme has been set up for this year, 5.6 billion dollars, so we've made this budgetary request, where in 2011, we've been allocated 500 million dollars, of which 100 million are pilot projects, according to the state-wide programme, they're from the general fund, 400 million are from the Drinking Water Program, they're also from the general fund. In addition, we've got another billion -- that's the government's loan guarantee, which today is under article 9 of the budget on. There is the Law on Budgets. And we have an agreement, we have the Prime Minister's mandate to allocate 400 million dollars from the Socoeconomic Development section to support OSMD and technology objects, according to the tasks that there are. Unfortunately, there is no more money this year. But we have been tasked by the Prime Minister this year to develop project and cost-effective documentation for those objects that need to be reformed today in the area of the modernization of heat, the water supply of housing to make the program more powerful next year. Second question from the Communist Party, faction. "In 2010, 1.4 million people were asked to grant housing services, 5.3 times more than in 2009. This year, the same reference will be made even more. Is it enough to provide subsidies to all citizens who need them?" Indeed, you know that the government has taken steps to protect the poor and the government has been changed. The modified subsidy rate was reduced from 20 per cent for workers to 15 and for non-working persons from 15 to 10 per cent. This made it possible during the time that followed, without changing prices for utilities, additionally assigned subsidies to 600,000 people. And if, last year, 850 families received a grant during December, this year, one million 400. There's a full budget in the 11th year. Last year, subsidies amounted to 6 billion, nine billion this year. We estimate that these costs are sufficient to finance benefits and subsidies. Another question. It is clear that the President made another mistake, the policy promised that all regions of Ukraine would have the same housing and utility tariffs. In order to regulate tariffs at the national level, a National Commission for the regulation of the Ukrainian utility market had been set up, which had to work since January 1, 2011, but has not been working so far. When will tariffs finally be considered for all regions of Ukraine, i.e. from which number will this commission start to work, since the work of NCRE is only to take into account the interests of monopolies into account in its work and to automatically fix the increase in energy prices? I want to say that, indeed, on July 8, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act on the Establishment of a National Commission for the Regulation of Housing and Utilities. In this law, at first this year until January 1st, the functions of this commission were laid down and are based on NCRE, the National Commission for Electricity Control. We handed over 20 units of staff to the Commission, we handed over the Wage Fund, we passed over all the license papers, and now this commission is working. I mean, on December 14, the commission decided to raise 15 percent of the prices for heating companies. This is 164 companies. And on January 20, a decision was made to raise the price by 10 percent in water and 8 percent in water management for water and sanitation companies. Today, there is a Prime Minister's commission to prepare a Presidential decree on the creation of a new commission, the National Commission for the Regulation of the Community Services Market. And we're dealing with this right now. As far as regulating and setting single tariffs are concerned, the question is not about a single tariff, but about a tariff that would vary by 10 to 15 percent in the region. What I'm saying is that we've analyzed all the tariffs, and today we see that there's a difference in the heat tariffs today in the regions and cities where the work started to be converted into individual heating and not finished. This is the Zakarpatsk district, the Lugansk region, and some cities. And that's the question that we're going to be leading to the end, to the end of this job. And the other tariffs today vary by 15 to 17 percent from one region to another. In the water. In the water we have 6 areas that are engaged in the transfer of water from the water regions to the submerged regions. These are areas such as Donetska, Lugansk, Dnipropetrovska, Kharkivska, Kirovogradska and Zaporizka. We have considered this issue and the cost of the transfer. Now we're counting, we're doing calculations -- that's about 500 million dollars a year. We think that these costs should be taken over by the state, and these accounts are now being considered in the Cabinet of Ministers. Another question. "For the moment, there are more than 1.2 million people in turn for housing in Ukraine. In 2012, the government plans to create a single national register of people who need to improve housing conditions. He is to be an alternative to the housing line that was formed in Soviet times. Accurate information on the principle that citizens will be selected and billed while they are not present. Will there not be a new register of people who need to improve living conditions by artificially narrowing the ranks of such persons, and on what conditions will this register operate?” What I'm saying is no, the register is an automatic system for collecting, storing and providing information about citizens on the floor. And this register today will be based on the line that is now registered and maintained by local authorities. It's just that this register will give us an opportunity to analyze: who's in line, who's in line, who's given the apartment and who's met the legislative conditions that are in that direction today. Other changes are not foreseen in this register. I want to say that last year, the state budget anticipated the creation of a register such as a pilot project for the Kiev City Administration based on the Solomonian Region and the executive committee of the High Town Council. Now the work done last year is being analyzed and the analytical data will be published. Next question. “Questions concerning the targeted financial assistance of subsidies that are now being issued and the benefits. I think this question will be more detailed by the First Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Social Protection, Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u5	Please don't direct me here and answer the questions, you answer the questions. And I'm going to ask if Vasil Ivanovich is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u6	Excuse me. Deputies! In order to reform the benefits are defined by the strategy of organizing the scheme for granting benefits to individual categories of citizens by 2012, approved and ordered by Cabinet of Ministers No. 594. As well as Ukraine's 2010-2014 economic reform programme, the Social Support System Reform. A number of measures are envisaged to improve the effectiveness of social protection, such as increasing the targeting of all types of social support, including benefits, and the introduction of economic and social-based standards of consumption. In particular, changes to legislation are being prepared in the setting of the single principles and criteria for the granting of benefits according to established standards and consumption standards. It is anticipated that the existing order of benefits will be maintained for those who have exceptional merits in front of their home country. The government is also working on strengthening the targeted aid system, and it is precisely that providing such forms of State support to the least protected and socially vulnerable populations. I've already mentioned that the Kabmina decree has changed the amount of pay for utilities that are to be paid today by low-security groups of the population. Another question. “In what way does the government plan to settle the issue of the cessation of the actual criminal scheme of thermal energy bills, in which the heat company intermediaries delay payments to DK “Gaz Ukraine”, endangering the heat supply of citizens who are fully accounted for for by the services they consume. Why should people suffer?” I want to say that the Cabinet of Ministers decree No. 1082 of December 3, 2008 introduced the distribution accounts on the heat supply companies. These distribution accounts give us the ability to send some of the money that comes into the distribution account today to the gas at that cost, relative to the percentage of the greenhouse gas cost. I mean, this decision works. Today, 378 companies operate in this order of 390 utilities. At the same time, some heating companies still have extra bills. And because of these extra bills, they pay other services and other bills to their businesses. I want to give you an example. We now have an average of 45 percent of the heat bill for gas companies in Ukraine. At the same time, if taken, there are enterprises such as: The Yaltéplore network, which paid only 10 percent, the North London heat exchangers, who paid only 16 percent, and I can keep counting. I mean, there's a way out of this. As an example, today I'm bringing in the Dnipropetrov Observatories, where the new district manager conducted a full analysis -- three heat managers fired their jobs -- and this way today the day propellers pay 52 percent for gas at the beginning of the heating season. And I think that's the question, really, the gassers have warned people that the city leaders, the directors of the heat plants, aren't entirely counting on it. But no one was turned off. And I think it's more of a moral factor for people to see who's to blame today because they can't have heat. These are more questions that we are asking today in front of the area and in front of the city, and we will continue to work on this issue. “The State-wide Housing and Utilities Reform Programme, which is supported. supported by the Party of Regions there is a reduction in the use of gas for population and heating by 25 per cent. But this program is currently not being implemented. Financing is not enough. This means that the loss of heat in hot showers, boilers and old boilers with low CPDs, in buildings where there are no counters and regulators, will be increased and we will have to consume more and more gas." I want to say that the Ministry of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine has been developed and agreed by the Cabinet of Ministers Decree No. 1216 on the State-wide target programme for the modernization of municipal heat, which envisions a step-by-step implementation of measures for the comprehensive modernization of municipal heat. We are now in the first stage, this is the development of heat distribution schemes for population sites, which will allow us to optimize their heat supply systems by closing or modernizing non-profitable utilities, introducing cogeneration facilities, building, if needed, new boilers. The second step is the process of modernizing municipal heat, which will allow us to reduce gas consumption by 10 to 15 percent. I want to point out that today's work on programming and validation, we've already approved 17 programs by the Ministry, 10 district programs are going to work today, and we already have one example, I want to give an example. The Donetsktécommunergo district utility has managed to reduce gas consumption by 26 percent in five years. We still have a real question ahead of us -- the loss in the apartment house. Unfortunately, after the analysis we have, about 30 percent of today is lost in housing, we've just prepared a bill on the warming of housing, it's now in the Cabinet of Ministers, we've got a few pilot projects in this state, and we're going to continue to formulate a program in this direction. During the discussion of the Housing Code, the indignation of the people raised the question of the need to create an OSB in an existing housing fund. Don't you think it's more appropriate to force the creation of OSBB only in new buildings and in existing buildings to create OSBB only on a voluntary basis, only after the state has fulfilled its promises to bring these houses into proper condition? Yes, we really agree that in new buildings, the new ones must be equipped with OSBB. In the same buildings that were built in the '70s, in the '80s without the help of the state, we're not going to be able to create OSB today. So we think we should leave the voluntary creation of OSBB and the state, as last year it was allocated to support OSBB for about 150 million dollars. The state will help these houses to keep them in order. The reform program, which you have approved, has provided about 10 billion dollars to help OSBB, to replace elevators, to repair roofs and to replace the equipment that is in the houses today. Another question. Citizens who have worked hard at businesses who have not received apartments and who are forced to live in family - style hostels continue to move from their occupied rooms to the streets under capital repairs or emergency buildings. What actions are planned by the government to protect the constitutional rights of this category of our citizens to housing and prevent them from being evicted from the hostel? I mean, you passed the law at the end of 2008. Since 2009, he has started to work. We have a commission from the Ministry on this issue. Today, 1,788 dormitories are in utility property, with between 1 thousand and 11 and 56.5 percent of the hostels being privatized. The decisions taken by the city authorities and these dormitories today are being privatized. In 2009-2010 it was transferred from state property to the property of the local self-government of 224 dormitories, of which 127 have already been transferred to privatization. What I'm saying is that we have prepared for today a draft law on the State-wide target programme for the transfer of hostels to the property of territorial communities for 2011-2014, which will soon be submitted to you by the Cabinet of Ministers. Over the course of these three years, the program provides for 1,083 units of state-owned property to be adopted, repaired, and transferred to privatization. In addition, we have some 1,200 hostels that have entered the statutory fund of those enterprises that are privatized today. These hostels are handed over on a contractual basis with enterprises, with local authorities, and will also be transferred to privatization. Our commission, also the same commissions created in each region and in each city, deals with the issue of closing the dormitory to a capital repair or reconstruction, and deals with these issues so that the residents who live in the hostels today will not be affected. We have, on the board, representatives of the public present, these are social organizations and those who are dealing with the population today, directly with these hostels. Another question. “The level of wages paid by residential workers who work in boilers and watersheds is almost twice lower than the average per country. Would it not be useful to raise the level of wages for workers in this area by reducing their VAT payments to the budget if they performed the task of reducing energy costs, provided they provide services to the population of the appropriate quality?" The government and the ministry are concerned about the issue of debt on wages and wage levels. What I'm saying is that the state of the past government gave us $117 million in debt for today's 55 million in debt and it's 62 million in debt. We are now working and planning to settle this debt by the end of March. At the same time, today’s wages are not high in utilities. About 2.1 thousand dollars, that's the average wage they get today in utilities. Of these, 2.5 thousand are thermal energy, 2.1 is plumbing and 1.8 thousand are residential. With a view to stabilizing the financial situation of the utility companies, we have been supported by a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax (for a special regime for taxation of housing services or heat). This bill freed manufacturers and contractors from VAT. Regrettably, this bill was not supported by the Supreme Council and was withdrawn from consideration in 6.07.2010. And one last question. “It is clear to everyone that the pace of building housing in the country cannot be restored without the restoration of existing credit to the population at real interest rates. At least 12-14 percent. Are there any government and NBA plans in this direction?" The government is working with the National Bank of Ukraine to liberalize approaches to mortgage lending of individuals through 2 state banks. VAT “Savedbink” and VAT “Ukrisimbank”, which currently have sufficient resources to do so. In addition, it is now possible to obtain loans from outsiders and mortgages from individuals. By decree of the Cabinet of Ministers in December, the state mortgage facility increased its statutory capital of 2 billion dollars and received the first funds. [[See the article “Young People Ask... 2010, number 912]] So today, the statutory capital of the state mortgage facility is 2.2 billion dollars. At the same time, the 2011 State Budget provides guarantees to the government under the government’s liabilities to a government mortgage of 1 billion dollars. The funds received by the state mortgage facility will be directed at refinancing the primary banks to lend them to the builders for the construction of housing facilities, as well as for lending to individuals for the purpose of acquiring housing in these facilities. The rate of the bank’s refinancing is now 11 years. All right, the answer to the questions that were answered was done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the questions you have. Please don't waste time. Names of the national MPs, please. Yes, the People's Deputy of Lemza, the Faction "BUT – Fatherland"
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u8	Dear Yuri Grigorovich, this year there is an increase in housing prices, utilities by 30, 50, and so on. In addition, tariffs for gas and electricity for the population are planned separately. On the other hand, a minimum wage increase of only 9 percent is budgeted. This raises a logical question as to how citizens can pay new higher utility payments at old low wages, and how can the government guarantee citizens their right to grant, since today only about 10 percent of citizens benefit from that right. What do people do, Yuri Yegorovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u9	Today I've already said that housing prices are rising in stages. Heat prices rose by 15 percent. Now only the gas component, not the other questions, is the growth in wages, the material resources that are today. And the price of heat on our calculations after the decision is made will increase by 15 percent. The price of water was raised from February 1 to 10 percent on average in Ukraine. Although, really, you're right, you need to raise about 30 percent. It's only raised to the energy component. Subsidies are given to virtually all those who want them today. In addition, commissions working in cities and in areas today are given the right to make separate decisions for each family with difficulties in assigning subsidies or for the person who is not resident and who has no income certificate or any other questions that are now lifelike. The government is planning to protect all the poor and the cost of this is budgeted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u10	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u11	Please give him the word of colleague Odarchenko, and I am pleased to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u12	Yuri Odarchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u13	That's my question. You know, when the Kharkiv Accords were signed, President Janukovic throughout the country and throughout the world said that the disgrace of these agreements is compensated by the fact that we have a reduction in the price of gas and the population will not be affected by this problem. Moreover, no one from today’s government is saying that we have gas of our own -- 20 billion cubic meters of gas. Why don't you ask a question to the government and to the President so that the gas prices for the population don't go up because the conditions are supposed to be created. You said in your speech that the population can't pay, the heat energy is paid from 16 to 50 percent. Why don't you have a position in the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u14	I can't answer the gas, I'm not a gas expert. And gas prices, I can't answer that. What today raises questions about not raising prices. Recently, on January 19, the Prime Minister held a meeting on this issue. And we've actually been analyzed and presented to the Prime Minister a corresponding note that we can't raise prices for thermal enterprises today, because it's back on the same population.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u15	Yes, National Deputy Fomin, Faction BUT – Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u16	I now give the floor to the People's Deputy Chago.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u17	Eugene Chago, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u18	Dear Yuri Jegorovich, there are several articles in the Housing Codex that cause concern for the owners of homes. For example, article 7 of the project states that the owner of the dwelling is responsible for his or her own belongings, including his or her proper dwelling. Article 179 states that evicting persons from their homes is permitted on the basis of a judicial decision. Today, the implementing law obliges court officials to remove property, including housing. So there might be a situation where commercial structures will raise prices for residential services, the poor people won't be able to pay, they'll be debt, and that's what they're using.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u19	Complete the formulation of your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u20	Do you have any reason to explain what was done to ensure that the new Housing Code does not become a stalemate on the neck of those Ukrainian citizens who, through unemployment, do not pay wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u21	Yeah, well, the question is clear. Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today the legislative base allows the court to evict people. It's not massive today, but it's allowed today. What I'm saying is that evicting today as it is is, it's very, very rare. I don't think it's going to be a system. What I'm saying is that today in the Baltic, three years ago, a decision was made and there was a law on eviction, and that action was more than a moral part of it. In three years, according to our information, no one was evicted there. But man knows that if he doesn't comply with the law, if he doesn't maintain the housing, if he doesn't have the housing to be accounted for, he might be evicted. I don't think this norm is critical today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u23	Oleg Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u24	Thank you. Mr. Hivrich, so give our Ukrainians such wages as in the Baltic Sea and then pass laws on evictions. And when, sorry, at the beginning of this year, two billion dollars -- debt on salary -- you're asking people to pay for housing and utility services, and you're also asking for foam. So what are you comparing, as they say, God’s gift to an egg? You don't have to confuse that. I have a question for you. Three weeks ago, I registered a bill for the introduction of a moratorium on foaming for the early payment of utilities. This bill applies to people whose state is guilty of wages, whose money is not returned to banks, and so on. Please tell me, as a representative of the government, will you support this bill, do you think that it is right for millions of people today not to take a penny when they are unable to pay municipal services from the state's faults as a result of a weak state economic policy that has led to the poverty of millions of people, and today these people are left homeless? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u25	Really. You have adopted a law that allows you to assign a penny as of January 1. I say again that foam is more of a moral factor because we counted if foam, which was before -- 0.01, that's just a month ago -- three pennies a month -- three pennies a month, and if you take the foam that's written in the Housing Code, that's a thousand bracelets a month, that's just 30 bracelets a month. So today, to talk about how today those who don't pay don't pay today and 30 bucks they're going to make some kind of loss for this family budget, we think it's not that big, but it's a moral, moral factor. What's the point? People need to know that for all that they do not do in law, they should be responsible today. Debt today accounts for about 8.4 billion dollars. In addition, the gas and energy companies, because we didn't count on gas in time, accounted for a billion three hundred pennies and fines that we needed to pay. Therefore, there must be a weight on the population in order for them to respond more responsibly to this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u26	Mikhailo Kosov, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u27	Please pass it on to Philenkov Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u28	Vladimir Filenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u29	Dear Yuri Grigorovich, I have one thought in my voice, and then there will be a question. Well, after the constant increase in tariffs, people started to say that there was a new horror film on the screens of Ukraine based on the script by Yanukovic, director of Azarov, in the lead role of Tihypko, you're on the dance floor, you're called "DEK Consumer". True, there is a dispute as to whether the film is properly called "JECK-consumer" or "Zac-consumer". Well, that's not principled. Now, here's a question for you. Tell me, as a human, do you understand, simply as a human being, not a deputy minister, how can you, at the retirement of 800 dollars or at the salary of the average person in Ukraine, endure the simple Ukrainian family's burden of tariffs you set? Do you have any idea that she's not-under-you-n? It's just unstoppable. As a man tell me, not as a deputy minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u30	I mean, the government went on. I'm out of here. The government's gone. Went that way. [[th m in s a l i]] The government went the way they did. [[th m in s a l i]] Dear, well, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u31	May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, well, you've correctly appreciated the joke, the good joke, but let's keep working. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the government has gone down the road that I've lowered today, I told you, I've lowered the subsidy threshold today. Today, in our own country alone, subsidies are allocated at 15 percent for public utilities and 10 percent for non-working. Let me give you a couple of examples. In the same Russia today, 23 percent, in the same Belarus 28. So we're counting today that, yes, indeed, prices are rising today. But the mechanisms of action today. Today we have full protection for those who cannot pay. And you yourself saw that only because this threshold had fallen did we get the opportunity of 650,000 families to assign a subsidy. After a rise in tariffs, a person will see that he pays more than 15 percent of his family’s income, and he will ask us for subsidies. And we're going to assign her subsidies, and we're going to cover these costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u35	Eugene Kzarkov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u36	A very large global issue that has not been resolved in the last 20 years. You know there are 803 dorms in the country. In the autumn of 2010, an unprecedented decision was taken before the Supreme Court, where it had largely confirmed the right to privatize with private property and dormitory facilities. On 6 December, the President instructed the Government and the Prime Minister, if I am not mistaken, to resolve the issue. So today, in a large way, any EPA is an example of Odessa’s Micron, privatizing a building or a box of dormitory, and thus surrendering people who live in these rooms for the rest of their lives to their families. How does the Ministry address this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u37	I've already said that we both work in each area in both the area and in the city of the commission that deals specifically with these issues. Yeah, really, I told you, about a thousand dormitories today, they entered the constitutional fund of a privatization enterprise, but it's clearly written that they're dormitories. And these hostels are now registered by local authorities as housing for people living in these residential homes. They can't be released today, they can't be reinstated, they can't be evicted, they can't be evicted, they can't be evicted, they can't be evicted, they can't be evicted, they can't be evicted. Every signal that comes to us today, we're looking at it on our committee today, and we ask the district commissions to look at themselves, if this is more about them. I want to say that there are lawsuits today by local authorities, there are lawsuits by residents of hostels, and these lawsuits give them the right to pass on to the local authorities today, to hand over these hostels to the local authorities, and then to the people for privatization. There are ways to make a donation today, and I heard Kyivmishkbud yesterday, and they gave three dormitories to the residents today. That's what they've decided with their team, and now the residents of these three dormitories are privatizing these rooms.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u38	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear Yuri Yegorovich, I want to continue the topic that most of all concerns the subject of tariffs. In 2001, when a group of Ukrainian national deputies were present in the hall, they settled in houses on the street of Tikina, Srebkokilski, my two-bedroom apartment cost 86, came Chernevski – 168 now reaches 500 gravel. I find it difficult to explain to myself and explain to the voters where the money is going, which is why the road is so violent. A specific example that continues on our streets and sidewalks, as well as the flow of water and sewerage. So much loss! Please tell me, are these funds or are they being financed from these funds, energy conservation measures in the water supply and sanitation industry? That's the question. And the suggestion that I have now come to the group of national deputies led by Zinova Shkutak is that we have drafted a bill on a single system for monitoring housing and utility tariffs. This law needs to be resuscitated.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u40	Finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u41	I apologize, and turn back, and it wouldn't be wrong for the government to take this law on a single monitoring system and bring it into the session room. We'd be able to be honest looking into people's eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u42	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u43	We agree on a monitoring system. In fact, we're doing this work right now, we need to systemize it, and we really need a document that clearly reflects why the price in one population point is one and in another population point is one and a half times higher. I want to say in the city of Kiev. Unfortunately, the price of hot water and hot water has not been raised in Kiev for three years, and today the price in Kiev is only 60 percent. So the Chinese made a decision and NCRE increased the price by between 27 and 28 percent in heat and hot water. And the Chinese, you know, have introduced a proportional payment, if you pay by the 20th, the price goes down by 6 percent, if after the 20th, the price stays the one that's approved. What we're doing is bringing in water supply networks, heat supply. In the heat I've already said, I mean, there's a program in the heat that needs money. In the water, indeed, we have lost 40 percent in Ukraine today. These are high losses, the losses should be 24-26, 28 percent of the power. We have a clear system of work today, we've done it today in Poltava, where they've completely optimized the water supply system, they've completely zoning the city from the height of the buildings, they've put pressure regulators. And in this way they've reduced the pressure on one-story buildings in networks, and that way they've eliminated 20 percent of their losses today. At the same time, they've reduced their energy-generating water supply.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u44	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u45	Dear Yuri Yegorovich, thank you for your frank, professional information. Yuri Yegorovich, we know that the government of the country is headed by Mikola Janović Azarov, and your ministry is doing its best to improve the housing and utility situation. But, as we know, the housing and utility sector in Ukraine needs considerable investment resources, budgetary costs for both state and local are clearly lacking, the own resources of enterprises that could be used for investment needs are also virtually lacking, however much tariffs are not reviewed. So, where do you plan to take the money to replace worn-out network equipment? How many times do the tariffs have to be raised so that the quality of service becomes what citizens of Ukraine dream of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u46	What I'm saying is that not only do we rely on the funds that are being put into tariffs or are being set aside by the state, we are now actively working with international credit institutions. We now have water funds, credits, and the World Bank -- 140 million dollars. It's in 15 cities that these costs are mainly designed to replace large-scale pump equipment. So in addition, the interest on this loan since October 15 is 0.6 percent. It's a very convenient loan. We had a meeting with representatives of the World Bank literally a week ago, and they made a promise to continue this cooperation. And we're promised another 200 million dollars per water and 200 million dollars per heat next year. Today we have a clear job, we're working with the Swedish AIDS organization that gave us the grant. And on account of this grant, in 22 cities in Ukraine, we are conducting an energy audit of water companies in order to then also engage investment funds in the form of a loan resource. In addition, we have a program with Nevko, where 10 cities were taken by heat. So 700 to 800 thousand euros per city, this is also a matter of energy conservation. This is the main question that today is, well again, in this matter more investors today come when our expenses are being reimbursed and we can either pay back these investment costs or give back credit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Koshin, Faction "BUT" - "Paternal".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Paul’s Andrew, a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u49	Who? Andrew Pavlovsky, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u50	Mr. Reporter, according to the government, most of the Party of Regions in the Supreme Council have abolished the moratorium on pension for utility services, and this is because there is such a disgraceful phenomenon as debt for wages, actually frozen pensions, wages and this. The draft Housing Code proposes to increase this pension, fines from citizens 10 times. Not to be overlooked is that from February 1st, prices rose by 35 percent, electricity by 30 percent, and once again, by April 1, the government raises the price of gas by 50 percent. That's what ordinary people do to get in debt and then move citizens out of their apartments, throw them out on the street. It looks like it's artificially done to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u51	Well, I, an honorary MP, foamed my fines and made my point and the opinion of the government at the price of gas. There's no answer to that question today, because I'm not leading this question. And what you're saying by population, I'm going to tell you that there are benefits and subsidies today, especially subsidies, we have a second protection today that the population can't pay today for utilities, unfortunately there's no.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u52	People's deputy Glazunov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u53	I'm asking you to pass the word to Acid Vassil Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u54	Basil Kiselov, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister! To date, the power of objective and subjective causes has arisen when a large number of our tenants turn to the local authorities for requests: switch away from central heating, switch to individual heating. As a host, I understand what a blow it is to the central heating system, but as a person who understands what it is in life today, I also support those who want it, who want it, who want it. I want you all over the country, considering that at the local level this problem is very difficult, and there is no explanatory work to tell you how serious this is on the central heating system, how legitimate the transition is, and how important it is to solve this problem, so that, at the request of individual owners, you can switch to individual heating and disconnect from the central heating system. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u56	Today, there really is such a problem. I think it's settled. People say we're not allowed to switch to individual heating. Permission granted. And at the same time, it's built this way. Today, every city is working on a heating scheme. In the heat scheme, those who develop it see the building standing far away from the boiler room, a mile, or a mile [half km] of heat. There's a lot of loss, and it's impossible to get quality heat from the centralized. So this house is included in the scheme as a switch to individual heating. The local authorities work from the population on the transition. He's doing project-based documentation. Because that's where we have to predict. channels and should be provided for the full translation of gas networks. Because gas networks are now projected for only one plate and a boiler is needed. And then there's the whole house. What is happening today? Today, city commissions and commissions are selectively allowing one, two, and five apartments to switch to individual heating. The house today is the only complex. It's based on thermal capacity. It's calculated that it has so much heat, and every violation leads to the fact that the quality of the heat left over, the people left in central heating, is no longer possible. In addition, the constant cost increases and the implementation decreases, which means the cost of this service will increase. This has happened today in the Zakartat region, where 70 percent of the people have moved to an individual area and 30 remain to be found. Light it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u57	Sergey Shevchuk, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u58	Sergey Shevchuk, Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the hour of questions to the government, is not just for the national MPs. Assigned, to a greater extent, to citizens. Millions today listen to them, and in an hour they have either to calm down or to worry. Your Honor, you have failed to appease the citizens of Ukraine. Too many problems. Some voice in you is so special, some style and manner so, you know, in front of us is the pattern of a bureaucrat, you just don't get offended, whose favorite phrase begins with those words that you three times repeated."".. You know, the same bureaucrats in JECK. And when a pensioner or a poor person or a disabled person or a single woman comes for help, he gets the same formal answers that we get today. That's why I don't have any questions for you. I'm asking you just one more thing, repeat, please, where the government is to go, once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u59	The government is implementing, the government is fulfilling its obligations, and is ready to report to you on the issues that have been raised according to the President’s laws and decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u60	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u61	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter! According to the recent Grustin Research Institute, 56 percent of people today have difficulties in paying for utilities. The tariffs that are rising and are still projected to rise from April 1st, the price of gas, the rise in tariffs for cold and hot water -- they are all carried out recklessly, recklessly. And the introduction of a law on the abolition of a moratorium on pennies is evidence that the government doesn't care about people. And once again, all the economic difficulties that accumulate in the housing and utility sphere are once again on people's shoulders. The increase in these tariffs will lead to a significant increase of almost 80 percent. And it turns out that the benefits are given to people who have a huge housing area that is tax-free and that are practically the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u62	Well, that's the last thing I want to say. The benefits today, they come according to the norm. One person is 21 square feet [21 sq m], plus 10 per family. And no more, no more benefits, no more subsidies. That's why there's a regulation. If a man today has an apartment over 100 square meters and he lives alone, he can only get the benefits by 21 plus 10. So what's going on today is, well, I want to tell you that this increase is more related to energy efficiency. The gas rises, which means that you know that we have 50-55 percent of the gas in the heat supply. And why we're not counting on gas today. It's not that we don't want it, it's that today is actually a 1 January compensation 62 percent in heat. We have no way of repaying and paying these costs today. The same is true of electricity. We've got it. Today, electricity ranges from 40 to 50 percent. Electricity increases for businesses every month. Both industry and housing and utilities, so we can't be in some kind of separate state today. Today, we are tied to the growth of energy and, in this regard, our utilities are increasing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u63	Yes, thank you, time is up. I thank all those present for, from the Cabinet of Ministers, taking part in the hour of questions to the government. Honorable national MPs, according to the Friday Rules, have time to make parliamentary inquiries. Let me make the parliamentary inquiries that have come. People's MPs have been asked: Arsenija Yatsenuk to the President of Ukraine for recognition by the President of Ukraine of an urgent draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" (register. No. 8064-1) regarding the abolition of all benefits not related to the performance of the duties of the national deputies of this and other parliamentary calls in connection with the unconstitutional extension of the term of the current composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please be sure. [[11:07:33]] For-129 Request not supported. Arsenija Yatsenuk to the President of Ukraine for the urgent call by the President of Ukraine to the Council of Crimean Tatar Representatives, who were selected directly by Crimean Tatars in connection with the worsening situation and the rising tension in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:08:08]] For-144 Request not supported. V’cheslav Kirilenko to the President of Ukraine on the need for the restoration of the State-Church Dialogue and the inadmissibility of discrimination against the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kiev Patriarchate by authorities and officials. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:08:42]] For-144 Request not supported. Anatolia Griesenka Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the creation of the National Natural Park "Decision" in the area of the entire river Right in the Kyiv and Chernigiv regions. Andrija Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure to pay the citizens of Ukraine the costs of the lost contributions to the USSR Savings. Andrija Paruba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the reply of the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine to the parliamentary request for the creation and organization of a plant of potassium fertilizers in the city of Kaluchi of Johno-Frankow region and the inaction of the executive authorities with regard to the execution of the relevant mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Valerija Baranova Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the need for a harmonized position on the use of accounting counters for the total calculation of electricity consumption in multi-house buildings where the joint owners of multi-house houses are integrated. Victoria Demionczuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, regarding the non-closure of the emergency medical care facility in the village of Lipněk Dobroveleckov district of Kirovograd. Vladimir Zubanova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the debt of wages paid by workers of powerful industrial complexes in the city of Alexandria Kirovograd. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the claim of the family of the Rurikoviches, who consider themselves descendants of Russian kings, to condemn in Ukraine the unique shrines of the Ukrainian people - Kyewovo-Pecherska Lavra and the Golden Gate, which they seem to have rightly owned. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the protection of the rights of residents and members of their families in relation to the dormitory of the Scientific Research Institute of Special Methods of Lithium and the Odessa factory of precision printing presses "Mikron". Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine on the cooperation of the state structure – Ukraine's national and sole official television channel with a commercial project, which presents the non-citizens of Ukraine and the inadmissibility of creating a social opinion and morality as a non-resident of Ukraine, as well as the financing of such projects at budget costs. John Hare to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to find out why the mayor of Odessa, the ex-head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Alexia Kostusyev, had a significant increase in 2011 in the official rate of the dollar and the Swiss franc. Igor Jereshka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the falsification of statistics on osmium sowing in the Cherkas region. Igor Jereshka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine told the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Anatolia Mogilov about the liquidation of credit unions. Igor Savchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take immediate action to return the property complex of the Brovar Central Hospital to the property of the territorial communities of villages and villages of the Brovar district of Kyiv and the inactivity of the Brovar district government administration of the Kyiv region. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on State support for the development of domestic machinery in the agricultural complex of the country, with a view to ensuring the needs of agricultural producers. Catherine Vaschuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need for the restoration of the hydromeliorative system to preserve the forest resources of the Volin region. Catherine Vaschuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need for removal from the village of Rokosovo Hustovo in the Zakarpatsky region and the disposal of hazardous chemical containers, the ban on construction in the area of this residential forest company. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the further operation of the Ukrainian Youth Aerospace Union "The Sucre". Catherine Samuelk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purchase of modern medical equipment for Herson's district cancer dispenser and the allocation of funds to complete the construction of the third line of the new building. Mikoli Derkac to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the bridge crossing of the Dnipro River in the Dniprodijnsk Dnipropetrovsk district. Mikoli Derkac to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of secondary school No. 27 in the village of Romankovo Dnipropetrovsk. Mikoli Shersun to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to finance gas pipelines to the villages of Stupno, Buderež, Bridges of the Ddolbunovo Region of the State Budget of Ukraine for 2011. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the uncontrolled rise in prices for rail and intercity transport in Ukraine. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of directing goods confiscated by public authorities to the needs of socially vulnerable groups. Alexander Crnvolunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science, the young and sports of Ukraine, on the facts of State intervention in the work of Ukrainian citizens' associations, which could lead, according to UEFA and FIFA statements, to Ukraine's loss of the right to hold the final part of the Euro-2012 championship and the removal of Ukrainian club and team football teams from international competitions. Alexander Shepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent use of measures to pay off the arrears of employees of the Open Shareholders Association Dnipropetrovsk and allocate funds to continue the construction of the subway in Dnipropetrovsk. Paul Mouchcan to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the sub-order of the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska and for the non-transfer of its temples or premises to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of Moscow Patriarchate. The Group of Greenewecks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of special means of transport with right-hand control. Sergey Chrapova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of the rural cultural house located in the village of Zaporzik Apostolic District of Dnipropetrovsk in connection with the cessation of its financing. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the use of urgent response measures to eliminate the negative impact of economic and other activities on the environment, which occurs in the pollution of sources and drinking water systems within the administrative and territorial boundaries of the villages of Brovarka and Hitzi Lubenski and Gaddavian regions of the Poltavian area by waste, the guarantee of an environmentally sound environment for life and health and the provision of quality drinking water to citizens. John Hare and Yuri Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on taking urgent steps to restore work from the restoration of the buildings in Odessa, which have been stopped, in connection with the irresponsible actions of the incumbent city authorities. Anatolya Yagoferov to the Head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine to provide information on the approval of tariffs for the Luhansk City Municipal Electricity Company. Valéria Bevéz, head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the verification of violations of procedural law by judges of the Zamostian District Court of Vinnice in the criminal case of the accused citizen, Sergey Koval, of committing a crime, provided for in article 187 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which led to a violation of the constitutional rights and freedoms of a citizen. Vladimir Danilenko to the head of the High Council of Justice on violations of the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of a war invalid, veteran of Afghanistan, Oleg Ananchenk. Vladimir Karpuk to the Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the provision of accommodation for the flag of the Ukrainian State Border Service and for the verification of the legality of the distribution of apartments among the guards in the Lutsky Border Guard Force in 2009-2010. Viacheslava Kovala to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the annulment of the Russian Federation's United of Ukrainians Court. Edouard Prutnik to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the review of the appeal of the village head of the Pere Budjevi Rural Council of the Nižin district of Chernigiv region of Sergey Kowalczuk on the need to finance the construction of an underwater pipeline to villages that are part of the Pre-Budje Rural Council. Eduard Prutnik to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, State Road Service of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine regarding the request of the City Council of Montenegro to the Lower Town Council of Montenegro on the need for measures to plan and carry out capital repairs of the city's roads. John Stoyk to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on subversive activity against the security of the Ukrainian State, on xenophobia and the inflaming of international hostility, on chauvinism by Odessa’s urban head, Alexia Kostusev, in connection with the ban on the use of Ukrainian language in the business of the Odessa execution. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Ukraine regarding the renewal of the work of the professional fire department in the village of the city type Nova Borova Volordarsko-Volinsky district of the Žitomir district. Mikoli Kravchenka to the finance minister of Ukraine for the decision of the Lviv District Council and the Lviv City Council to fund the state - owned building of the monument to Stepan Bandera in Lviv and the monthly supplement to the pensions of UPA veterans. Mikoli Shershun to the head of the Ukrainian State Road Service on the urgent need to change the turnaround to the city of Gosho on the road to Kiev-Chop. Oksana Bibozr to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for conducting research into the effects of low - alcohol energy drinks on the human body and for violating the prohibition of the sale of such beverages in Ukraine. Alexander Crnvolenka to the head of the Kyiv District Court of Appeal on the payment of pensions, ensuring the right of citizens to a fair recalculation of pensions and ensuring that Ukrainian citizens have access to the information on the judicial cases that concern them. Orestes Muz to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Technical Regulatory Service of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the violation of legislation in the activities of the head of the Ternopil Regional Audit Authority, John Panz, and the possibility of being the head of the State Enterprise, Ternopolstandardtmethrology, Eugene Melniczuk. Orestes Muz to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the State Reserve Agency of Ukraine, Director General of the State Enterprise "State Food and Grain Corporation", Head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspection, Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the abuse of the service position of Director of the State Enterprise "Ternopile Combine of Agricultural Products" Peter Volosin, the possibility of being held as Director of the State Enterprise "Cortkovy Combine of Agricultural Products" of Petr Stefanjak, a violation of legislation in the activities of the Head of State Architectural and Construction Inspection in the Ternopil Region of Avdonin. Sergey Gordienka to the head of the High Council of Justice, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the heads of the Zitomir District State Administration on the protection of land rights for residents of the village of Veliki Gadomi Berdichiv district of the Žitomir region, who are in violation of the executive and judicial authorities and the prohibition of the use of land without establishing documents by a closed company called the Ukrainian Caolin Company. [[pear]] Sergei Gordienka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the legal protection authority's authorised gravity when investigating the tragic death of a resident of the city of Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska District of Valery Kuzmenka. Grinevetsky's Sergei to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the payment of excise taxes on petroleum products by the payers of fixed agricultural taxes. Jurija Gnatkević to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the delay in the discovery of a criminal case for the brutal beating of the bullies of the daughter of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Les Tanjuk Oksana Tanjuk. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the implementation of measures to ensure the constitutional rights of residents of the buildings 1/26-1/47 on the street of Kyiv Road in Borispol to property and land violated by officials of the Borispol City Council, the illegal refusal by the latter to privatize the land, the deliberate failure to execute the court's decision, the use of measures to address violations of the law and bring the guilty to justice. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for obstructing the professional activities of police officers of the Chief Editor of the Information Agency "Besides You" Elena Bilozerski. Dmitry Reva to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Donetsk district government regarding the protection of the interests of rural communities in the area of Artemov. Zoe Shishkina to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the appeal of employees of the state-owned enterprise Kyiv State Plant Buravisnik on debt for wages. John John Stoyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal responsibility of Odessa’s urban head, Alexia Kostuyev, for violating the Constitution of Ukraine, the abuse of national language, the inflaming of international hostility and chauvinism. Lilia Grigorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper provision of education at the general educational institutions of Ukraine. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation by officials of Ukrainian law enforcement authorities of the constitutional rights of citizen Alexia Zanuda. Mr. Mikoli, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the actions of officials of the executive committee of the Poltava City Council, which may lead to the raiding of private property. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on cases of vandalism in relation to the heroes of the struggle for Ukraine’s independence. Oleg Nadoshi to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate and unbiased investigation of a criminal case for causing bodily harm to a citizen of Mikola Andriyczuk by members of the battalion of the Kremenchuck City Police Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Poltav region. Jurija Gnatkević to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the fate of criminal cases transferred to the Attorney General's Office by the previous Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenk, who is currently under arrest. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation when the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine amended the statutes of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and the illegal release of Viktor Nabrusk from office as head of the National Radio Company of Ukraine. [[Solomon, Jerek, and others]] Irina Gerashchenko and Olga Gerasimük to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of victims in the murder case of journalist George Gongadze have been familiar with all the material of the case since the completion of the pretrial investigation. Irina Herashchenko and Olga Gerasemük to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the illegal capture of the publications "Science and Culture" and "Tribuna" on the street of Prozni, 10 in Kiev. Thus, the honourable national deputies, 93 MPs, have been questioned. At the same time, fellow dignitaries, we have the request of national deputy Vladimir Yavorowski to grant him the right to speak in connection with his displeasure, or dissatisfaction, or disapproval of the answer he received to his parliamentary requests. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u64	Good afternoon, Ukraine! The first theory of my speech, I remember very well the 1990s, 91st, 92nd year here in Parliament, when, on every parliamentary request, very quickly, objective honest answers came and every national MP could have had those official figures, those official facts that he got from a certain official. In general, the letters of MPs were signed by ministers only. A national deputy could freely go to any prime minister, vice-premier, minister, at any time without warning him. It really seemed that such a tradition had already been established and that it would last forever. What we have today obviously disappoints everyone. We've got the answers that come in, we've got the answers that come in no matter what. I want to give you one single example. My parliamentary law, I wanted to know, we all know, around this very much political crackdown, the political drum fight, that one of the firms was doing a sort of audit on the work of the government of Yulia Timoshenko. They decided to invite a foreign firm, as Mr. Clovis wrote me down, for the absolutely sterile objectivity of all of this. But I asked for one, so give me a figure on how much money has been spent to pay for this firm. I'm not saying that it's been all over the press that this firm has nothing to do with auditing. The Americans themselves call it almost a shadowy and mysterious firm. They got, it became known later, in one working hour and a half thousand dollars, they worked 89 hours, it was over $10 million spent on this firm. What they've discovered to us today is that the money was a greenhouse, used by some part of the money to pay our pensions. The fact that these machines were purchased was what the press had written about before. Because of that, I'm dissatisfied, and I think it's just the abuse of a national MP when I'm told by everyone I just didn't write to, and the head of the CRU, and the same Kluev, and Azarov. They tell me that money is spent according to the budget and so on, but no one calls it. Because of this, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is my right, I think that if after this additional request I don't get an official answer, because what's written in the press is one thing. But I would like to have an official absolute answer -- that's government money and no one has the right to hide it. If I don't get that answer, I'm going to use my right to challenge here to this rostrum, or Kluva, or Azarov, and let them answer to the Supreme Council. It's my right and I'll stand on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u65	On the subject of the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, I ask the secretariat to form as a parliamentary request by Vladimir Yavorowski. And we'll send him back to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Now we have to move on to the issues that are set out in the schedule for today. There's such a proposal to calm everyone down, I'm reporting that yesterday I received from the committee of our own profile, signed by the committee head of Vladimir MacKeenka, information that they had reviewed the statements made by all the deputies who wrote them about the formation of parliamentary powers. No statement from two deputies: Kaskiv and Am I speaking correctly? [[Noise in the hall]] One. One minute, one minute. I want to listen to you, I want you to listen. Dear colleagues! And accordingly, the committee formally appealed on the basis of the decision of the committee to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that he was the deputy who had not written the application before the court. Now this feed is being processed. Why didn't he write it? Ask him. So, dear fellows, let's settle down now and not for one minute, we won't create politics, we'll make a decision. I now propose in this order: to consider the deployment of our military forces to Côte d'Ivoire, and then to consider withdrawing our parliamentary powers. Or if you haven't denied it, it's Sudak, too. 1800 years of town to make the right decision. After that, decisions were made to withdraw the delegation’s credentials. You understand why this option is proposed. I'd like to support you, but today we've decided with you that MPs should be in charge. All of it. So let's take a quick look at 2 questions, this is a draft decree on the State level 1800s since the establishment of the city of Sudak of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'm asking you, let's take a brief look at this. Please vote. [[11:31:45]] For 275 Decision taken. Reporter – Dutch Boris Davidovich, co-rapporteur – Javorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u66	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! During 2012, Sudak was in the 1800s. Sudak is one of the oldest cities in Ukraine with its centuries-old history, architectural monuments, cultural traditions. The city of Sudak is one of the few cities of Ukraine, which has a metric, a written source confirming the date of the founding of the city in the library of the Greek Orthodox Academy of the Holy Trinity on the island of Halka of the current Turkey. This written source is a service book, or a senator dating back to the HS century, on the pages of which the following record is repeated twice: The built fortress of Sukde in 5720, according to a modern summer calculation in 2012. The adoption of today's ruling by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is important not only for residents of the city in recognition of Sudak as a national historical, cultural, tourist and recreational centre, but also for autonomy and in general for Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u67	Please finish Boris Davidovich. It's all right, isn't Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u68	Vladimir Yavorowski, Committee on Culture and Spirituality Dear colleagues, I wanted to think for a moment with you that if, for example, such a Jubilee had to be adopted by the American Parliament, I could imagine how much joy there would be. This emphasizes that we are the people who live here on this earth -- Ukrainians in the political sense of that word, not only ethnically but also politicalally, obviously should be proud of having such a profound history of ours. And the city that we want to celebrate, I emphasize once again, 1800 years of this amazing settlement that has about 17,000 people today, but in the summer, it rotates around 200,000 people. The amazing story of this city is that I would like to emphasize just one such detail: that by the fifth century, when this city was under the influence of Byzantium, the Orthodox Church was there. Can you imagine that it came to Kiev, to Kiev, much later than it was there? I'd like to highlight one more detail. Which is literally the hand of this city, to submit to Theodosia, which was the Café, and where the slave market of Ukrainians was, of course, the Ukraine, first of all, and the Ukrainians is also our colossal, amazing story. Because of that, the committee unanimously, in the presence of Boris Daych, who came to the committee meeting, we supported this draft decision. We think it's worth noting. And we're just talking to the government, not taking too long. There's time. Dutch agreed to do so. There's a way to get ready. Indeed, the history of this city, the town, as you would call it, will be used in the national memory of the Ukrainians. I believe you'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u69	Dear National Deputies! Is there a need to discuss matters? Well, if there is, please sign in. They insist. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Jaroslav Suhi and Vladimir Karpuk
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u70	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will use my right of speech to urge the session hall to support the draft decree. It's a beautiful thing. Not so often in this session room do we make decisions about which you once said, "There are things that can unite the Ukrainian people." This is exactly the situation, so I urge everyone to support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u71	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u72	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". No doubt we will support this legislative initiative. Such dates do not raise doubts, and they need to be voted on. But I want to remind Vladimir Mikhailovich that there were two registered decrees to mark the memorable dates in 2011. One turned down at the offer of a Communist faction, the other didn't get the required number of votes. And it would be very good if we took this decision in general and didn't waste time considering certain dates in separate bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u73	Mikhail Kosov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u74	I am so persistently asking for words because I really want to actively support the adoption of this decision, but at the same time, I also want to go to the author of this bill, my colleague Daych, and especially to the local people, and I know that they are there. This has to be a very detailed plan in three directions, especially the one that has already been mentioned, are the embryos of Christianity, which may be perhaps the oldest and most ancient in the territory of the Ukrainian state. The other one. Archaeological excavations that were to be carried out and continued there, that is, historians would have to draw their conclusions. And the third direction, these are the historical sources that are still there. If all of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u75	Please complete your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u76	If appropriate work is done in all these directions, celebrations will not only be concluded by a Jubilee arrangement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! Question completed. I would have asked the author and the committee, if they hadn't objected, and the committee head, I'd have corrected something here in terms of logic, this document, I'd read it and I'd like to support it. In October 2012, the city of Sudak, one of the oldest cities in Ukraine on the coast of the southeastern Crimea, was completed in the year 1800. The city of Sudja is an integral part of the ancient history of modern Ukraine, combining beautiful natural landscapes, unique recreational opportunities, and architectural monuments. Taking this into account, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. To support the Sudanese City Council's initiative to designate the city of Sudak at the state level in October 2012 in the year 1800. The other one. Recommend to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within one month of the adoption of this Supreme Council Decision, to establish an organizational committee for the preparation and implementation of measures to mark the establishment of the city of Sudak at the state level of 1800. To develop and approve measures to mark the 1800s establishment of the city of Sudak. Solve in an orderly manner the issues of their organizational, material, technical and financial security. Third. The State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine will provide a wide-ranging coverage of the measures related to the 1800s anniversary of the city of Sudak. Four. Invite the National Bank of Ukraine to produce and circulate coins dedicated to the 1800s establishment of the city of Sudak. A series of postage stamps and postcards dedicated to the 1800s of the city of Sudak was issued to the Ukrainian State Postal Service. Fifth. To recommend to the Supreme Council and the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Sudanese City Council the necessary measures to mark the 1800s anniversary of the establishment of the city of Sudak. Six. Controlling this decision is to place on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self - Rule and on Culture and Spirituality. And the seventh. The decree takes effect from the day it was published. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Head, the committee had no authority, of course, to rule this decree, and we did not want to turn it again to be reviewed there. We've been paying attention to these. Because I think the members of the committee support me in saying that this text is very normal, we will support it, and we can vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u79	No objections to the author? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft decree as the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree to mark at the state level the 1800s establishment of the city of Sudak, and a dot. Registration number 8019. Please vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:42:28]] For 402 () [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Decision taken, thank you. I am announcing a draft law on the approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine. [[on the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine in support of the United Nations Operation in Côte d'Ivoire]] [[Registration number 8057]] Please, I would like to take your proposal to vote on the summary of this matter. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. Huh? Yeah, well, they gave it away. They're handing out, handing out. [[11:43:09]] For the 220. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, rapporteur – Minister of Defence of Ukraine Mikhailo Bronislavovich Ježel, co-rapporteur – Head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Ukraine Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u80	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine is one of the founding countries of the United Nations that continues to participate actively in international peacekeeping operations. Our nation is one of the few countries in the world capable of providing peacekeeping contingents equipped with military aircraft that are critical to the fulfilment of the mandate of any peacekeeping mission. Since the end of November of last year, Ukraine has been operationally supporting the United Nations operation in Côte d’Ivoire. To this end, 23 military personnel and two MI-8 transport helicopters were sent to Côte d’Ivoire, according to a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the composition of our peacekeeping contingent in Liberia. After the elections held on October 30, 2010, the situation in that country needed to be stabilized and stopped. This has been recognized by all members of the United Nations Security Council. In order to increase peacekeeping efforts, on 19 January 2011, the UN Security Council approved Resolution 1967 on the increase of the 9th-thousand peacekeeping contingent in Côte d'Ivoire by another 2,000. The resolution also authorizes a temporary deployment of three combat helicopters from the UN mission in Liberia. On this issue, the Secretary - General of the United Nations personally asked the President of Ukraine to consider positively the possibility of involving three Ukrainian MI-24 helicopters from 56 separate helicopters in Liberia to perform tasks in Côte d’Ivoire. As a result of helicopter condition, completeness.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u81	Microphone, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u82	capable of carrying out the tasks assigned to it. The main tasks of a group of helicopters will be to demonstrate force, escort convoys, air surveillance, and patrol the support of UN troops. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to deploy helicopters to provide operational support in Côte d'Ivoire has been approved by the National Security and Defence Council. Such a step will become a major political and diplomatic lever for promoting national interests within the United Nations. I propose approval of the draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u83	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, head of the National Security and Defence Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u84	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to convey to you, not my own request, but the request of the committee, even if the procedure is shortened to give you five minutes to present the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u85	Please. I think there's no objection. Is it? I ask you to vote, Your Honor, so that the committee will be able to base its position within five minutes. Let's vote, well, what are you, respectable colleagues. Well, that's a good question. Come on, vote. [[11:47:18]] For 128 Thank you. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u86	I'm sorry, but there's no way out. So the committee first decided to recommend to the Supreme Council 7 out of 11 that the bill be rejected. Even if you're going to politically accept it as a whole, I'm paying attention to the warnings of scientific expertise. The legal basis under the UN Security Council Resolution is only up to four weeks, three months this will be illegal. I'd like you to understand what's going on right now, maybe two more minutes. This is the first decision made by the Supreme Council because it is about war. According to Hensek, there is a threat of civil war. The same is true of our Chief Intelligence Directorate. This is the first combat unit, not a peacekeeping unit. These are assault helicopters that have rocket and missile weapons that are going to shoot. This is a direct threat to our soldiers. At the same time, of the more than 40 countries now in Liberia and Côte d’Ivoire, there are at least 10 Western European and other states that have helicopters in their armed forces, they do not. According to the ICC in Côte d’Ivoire, there is a French unit with assault helicopters that don’t put them there. They respect and honor the lives of their soldiers. Besides, I'd like to pay attention. The Security Council has made a decision that violates the country’s sovereignty, and it has given permission to the Gensec to redesign our helicopters. There is no "under Ukraine's consent" or "under Ukraine's consent". [[Brackets]] Today, Côte d'Ivoire, tomorrow will be Tunisia or Egypt, or anywhere by any term. We can't leave this without reacting, it's very serious stuff. And once again, of the 11 members of Committee 7 voted in favour of this decision, because the real question of relocation is not solved, three options remain uncertain: who will protect our soldiers. We've been briefed by the Secretary of Defense at the meeting that this will be Pakistan, but he doesn't know, probably because -- I emphasize! – the inefficient management of this operation has decided to recall its peacekeepers from there. And according to intelligence, the international community is almost a quote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u87	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u88	The international community is skeptical of the force in Côte d’Ivoire. When we made our decision in November, I said the same thing from this rostrum. He told us that everything was quiet, and now there's a president who's been elected, you know where he's sitting? In the hotel and in no way affects, under the protection of peacekeepers. Instead, his predecessor is in charge of the armed forces. Hundreds of thousands of people in Côte d’Ivoire have already left their country. The curfew is covered by all borders, but at least hundreds of thousands of people are fleeing. Hundreds of dead are wounded among peacekeepers, thank God, not ours. Therefore, this decision cannot be made in such a clear way. But if you break it already, most of it, then consider the warning purely legal, up to four weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Ivan Kirilenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, please pass on the word Tomenko Mikoli Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u91	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, it's so historic and sad that on February 15 we're going to celebrate the Day of withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan, and here we enter, or we want to enter troops to participate in hostilities. I fully support the head of Anatoly Grizzenk's committee, which is a disorderly event, because according to all the indicators, most of all, we have in the explanatory note the Minister himself, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not Intelligence, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs says that the situation is one of the immediate threats to our contingent during the execution of its mandate, especially in the sector to which we are going. I mean, actually, the unit that the majority voted on, sent off, it was, you know, two helicopters of transport and technical personnel. Now we're talking about three combat helicopters and an additional 60 people, more than that, a place of deployment is a place of likely combat. We're sending it to the epicenter of combat. I also tried to find out who our allies were. Here we are told that we may be supported by a contingent of Ghanaian armed forces or other countries. As you can see, Western European countries do not want to be involved in a combat operation. If we were to support humanitarian cargo, food shipments, or safety support, I could theoretically explain our goal. Well, when we send people into actual combat for the first time, as a participant in fighting in Afghanistan, I think we're doing immoral things because we put people's lives at risk. And there's no explanation that we are strengthening the image of Ukraine, or that we're making international plans, can overturn the cost of a person's life, who has more than 60 people who can get here. So I think it's a case where we shouldn't support the direction and protect our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u93	Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I think this may be a difficult decision, but they need to support this bill and why. There is some illogicality. There we already have our contingents, of course, where these Ukrainian boys serve under difficult conditions, and the deployment of three additional helicopters will certainly strengthen, at least make it impossible for those things to happen in this country if there is a threat to our military personnel. If we actually see that the situation is developing completely in the direction of increasing conflict, we probably need to get the contingent out of there completely. But in this case, in my opinion, that position will be right. At the same time, we've always been a reliable partner of the UN on international missions, and let's do everything we can to ensure that there's no conflict and there's no danger for our military personnel. We need to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u95	We'll talk about it. Please, Ivan Stojko, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u96	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, group “For Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, indeed, today we will make difficult decisions. That's why I want every father sitting here to wonder if his son would go and vote for it. But what I want to say is, Côte d'Ivoire is the first African country to have this kind of turmoil that led Tunisia and other countries, Egypt, today, to revolution. Indeed, there, the legally elected president sits in a hotel blocked, and the one who lost the election has an army, a good army, as it were, in good condition. And they're not at the threshold of civil war today, they're at war. There are thousands, hundreds of thousands of refugees, indeed thousands of those who have died. And so today, when we're talking about direction, we need to take a very good look at whether we're sending guys to war, not just adding, as my previous speakers have said here, that it's like two helicopters. These two helicopters do not carry out the task that these three helicopters will carry out with rockets and so forth. So they're going to a real war. When we were sent, remember, to Iraq our armies, then we regretted and tried to bring them out as soon as possible. But today, where war is going, we have no right to send our military personnel. And that's why I think that what was taken by the United Nations, without discussion in this room and on the Security Council, is a hasty decision. Because Ukraine has, like any other state, the right to its choice, and we must do it today. So I don't think we should vote for this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Counting it. Just a minute. Given the importance of this question, before voting, I ask the committee head one more minute, then the defence minister would ask to respond to the warnings made by the deputies. Dear colleagues, who else has raised their hand? Taras Cranwell is a committee that has a direct bearing on this case. Please. Anatoly Stepanovich, please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I want to emphasize again. Procedural question. If the majority have votes, consider that the legal basis is only up to four months. In four weeks, I'm sorry. This is the only decision from January 19 that gives the right to four weeks is no longer possible. Otherwise, within three months, within three years, we go beyond the limits of authority. We have no right to send more than the UN has sent. That's the first one. But secondly, I want to do it again, the people who did it. The key is the threat to the lives of our soldiers. That's the first thing. And the second. The fact that the international community is skeptical about the success of this operation, and none of the democratic Western, American, any state wants to send its helicopters there. He won't. Understand that. Therefore, the decision is extremely responsible. We don't have to, we don't have the right to direct combat troops to a peacekeeping contingent. When he was secretary of defense, these proposals came in: Chad, Lebanon, Afghanistan, let's have combat squads. They've never been sent. The medics, please, will honor them, the fighting unit that shoots them are the invaders. And we're not going to be seen there, and we're not going to be seen there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u99	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u100	The image will be extremely negative, and who cares about the image issue, the one now, our peacekeepers in the country have been standing there for many years and if there were economic gains, they were gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u101	Thank you. Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u102	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Any questions from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, first, Côte d'Ivoire, who became a member of the European Union? The second committee was the Committee on European Integration, not the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Next. In our committee consultations, we asked if there would be. I would like the Secretary of Defense to answer that question, whether there will be a guaranteed principle of volunteerism at this location, because this is not a heading, at hot spots we provide the principle of volunteering, here is a relocation from a dangerous to a very dangerous one. We have to stick to it, 60 people have to get that absolute guarantee. Next. What will be the status of our peacekeepers in four weeks — the invaders? This question has not been resolved completely and is not highlighted in the document. What is the motive for 60? On four helicopters now 25, three men and 60 men are added. There is no answer, we want an answer from the minister too, because much depends on it. And there's no financial justification. I have traditionally voted for these issues, I will vote, but we're worried about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u103	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u104	We want the minister to answer these very questions, because that depends, indeed, on the future of our contingent there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u105	Thank you. Mikhailo Bronislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u106	First of all, four weeks. This is indeed the case, but there is such a framework in resolution 1967 of January 19, which states the second paragraph: “Resolves to authorize, as recommended by the Secretary-General in his letter of 7 January 2011, the continuation until 30 June 2011, of the temporary increase in the military and police contingent authorized by resolution 1942”. So it's going to increase to 2,000. And then there's the safety issue. Thus, 57 positions that are questions that may pose a risk to decision - making are fixed and agreed upon by the United Nations. Helicopters will operate in pairs, and all search and rescue issues are also agreed upon. I can ask these questions that are defined. As far as safety is concerned. In the end, the team commander can make the final decision, be given that right, do the task or not, if it poses an extremely dangerous threat to the contingent. As far as financing is concerned. The funding is fully compensated, the work of our helicopters in Liberia, with the plan overtaken by 15-20 percent. We got about 140 million dollars. With regard to the payment of the helicopters themselves, the decision is made in the Cabinet of Ministers because the financing is coming from the budget of Ukraine. We decided to increase the pay of the helicopter’s own warehouse by 2.5 times. As for 60 people, the number of helicopters increases to five and the number of helicopters increases accordingly. And then on a four-to-five-day flight, the helicopters will fly to Liberia to do regular work for a month. So all of these questions are agreed. The questions of logistics security, defence, will be fully implemented at the Boake airport. Personality is provided by housing, nutrition, and other matters. What about volunteering?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u107	I have a telegram signed by the commander of the squad, I can read it for you, we've asked him again about. What is the condition of the individual composition. Here I received a telegram: “The legend of the Commander of the Joint Operational Command of the Minister and so forth. I report that MI-24-P helicopters and a designated special warehouse of the 56th individual helicopter crew in the UN mission in the Republic of Liberia are ready to be relocated to Boake Airport to provide operational support to the UN Operation in Côte d'Ivoire. [[Côte d’Ivoire]] The personal composition is healthy, prepared, and mobilized to carry out the tasks assigned. The psychological condition of a special warehouse is satisfactory. Team Commander, Lieutenant Colonel Pliss."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! Let's be honest, for all of our poverty, if it's doubled again. Two and a half times the funding, it's going to be in line, for our poverty, for the military, and you understand that very well. But the principle of volunteering must be quite obvious. That's why I'd like your attention. I am voting on the proposal for approval of the draft Ukrainian Act on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine in support of the United Nations Operation in Côte d'Ivoire. [[Registration number 8057]] Please vote. [[12:05:20]] For 254 Decision taken. By factions, please, the Party of the Regions – 177, "BUT-"Batychina" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 24, the Communists – 0, the People's Party – 20, non-factional – 33. In addition, my honourable colleagues, I ask that we form the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First. The formation of our mission is solely on voluntary grounds. The other one. An increase in the financial security of our contingent, just reported by the Secretary of Defense. Let's take these two positions and make separate decisions by the Supreme Council and send them to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to the President. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up from the factions for one minute on the basis of the vote. Please put your colleagues' names on the board. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u109	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I, like most factions, voted against sending our troops to war. What's more, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, you've now made it clear on the voluntary principles of formation, and you've made it clear about increasing security. I'd like you to specify now, and what you voted for, is 1 month and 4 weeks. All right, this term can't go on automatically. That's why I'd like to make it clear in this regulation what term we're referring to, second and thirdly, I'd like to calculate all the negative effects and take measures to ensure that they don't happen. I mean, give the assignment now and the scouts, and ask other countries to secure it, because once you do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u110	Yes, Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, speculating on the State's development difficulties, on the difficulties of fulfilling international obligations, does not honor the so-called opposition, which stands in the wrong way of rejecting any action by the State. But that's not what this is about. I voted in favour of this decision, and I think I did the right thing. It's about something else. I promise you, we will come back to that question. The question is disgraceful. Why do our military personnel in hot spots, in peacekeeping contingents, receive wages a few times lower than the same Ghanaian and other Madagascar soldiers? That's the question. Costs are allocated by the United Nations. Where we're going with this money is definitely a matter of concern to me. And the last. I'd like a further Secretary of Defense, or a trusted person, to refer more specifically to tactical and technical data. Because MI-8 helicopters can't have any rocket systems on them. No punches, Ivan. Ivan, he's not a hitter! This is a regular transport cow that can transport fuel and lubricants.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u112	We've already made our appearance. Upstairs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u113	May I have a word with Deputy Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u114	Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u115	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. It is certainly very bad that a person who has not served in the army for a war is making a decision. He was there for a while isolated from society as well as soldiers, but in other institutions. And I would like to point out that today, in this room, a cynical decision has been made for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, after the Afghan events of our soldiers without their consent, without their parents' consent, they are being sent to the slaughter. I propose that the Supreme Council Hall, after each zinc grave, should become, if you'll excuse me, stand still for an hour, apologizing to those parents and those boys who are going to die. What are our interests?Oh, my God! Where are our interests in Africa?Oh, my God! And what authority will we gain from that war?Oh, my God! Not at all. What are we doing, dear friends?Oh, my God! You lose the moral and ethical right to call yourself representatives of the people. Therefore, today’s vote is a cynical indulgence of fools.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, you have expressed your thoughts. I have one request: less expression and less metal in my voice. For if things were different, they would dance and shout and vote that they should be corrected. Let us not speculate on human health. Let us make sure that we provide security for those who will carry out the UN mission. And you don't have to do that word fornicating. Stop him. Yeah, we agreed to work with you all the time. I am now announcing the issue of the permanent suspension of the powers of individual Ukrainian national deputies. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir MacKeenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u117	Thank you. Attention! Finally. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! At its meeting on September 8, this year, the committee reviewed and supported the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Demiscan Vladimir Fedorovich concerning his appointment as Head of the Ukrainian State Highway Service. On the basis of article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, the Committee decided to support the application and made an appropriate draft decree on the early termination of the powers of Ukraine's national deputy, Demiscan Vladimir Fedorovic. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Demiskan Volodymira Fedorovic. [[Registration number 7711-1]] Please vote. [[12:12:26]] For 378 Decision taken. Please proceed with your ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting reviewed and supported the statement made by the national deputy Jiga Mikli Vasilovich of the People’s Republic of Ukraine regarding his appointment as head of the Viennese District Authority. On the basis of article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the Committee decided to support the application and put in place an appropriate draft decree on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Jiga Mikoli Vasilovich. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u120	I am voting on the motion for the adoption of a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Jiga Mikli Vasilovich, 7711-2. [[12:13:40]] For 382 Decision taken. Now, here's the deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u121	Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on September 8, this year, the committee reviewed and supported the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Illashova Grigorija Aleksiowiovich, regarding his appointment as Head of Foreign Intelligence for Ukraine. On the basis of article 81, section I, of the second part of the Constitution, and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the Committee has decided to support the application and has made an appropriate draft decree to terminate the powers of Ukraine's national deputy, Illashov Grigorija Alexiyovich. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u122	I am voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy Illashov Grigoria Alexiyovich. Registration number 7111-3. [[12:14:53]] For 385 I'll take the order. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! The committee at its meeting on September 8, this year, considered and decided to support the statement made by the Ukrainian National MP, thank you. Support the statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Crimea of Mikola Vladislavovich on the establishment of parliamentary powers, in accordance with article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. The relevant draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy of Zločevský Mikola Vladislavovic offers your opinion. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u124	I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Zločevský Mikola Vladislavovic. [[Registration number 7172-1]] Please vote. [[12:16:08]] For 387 Decision taken, thank you. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u125	Honorary colleagues, the committee at its meeting on 3 November 2010, reviewed and supported the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Fesenko Leonid Ivanovich, on his appointment to serve as judge of the Ukrainian Supreme Court for civil and criminal matters. On the basis of article 81, paragraph 1, of the second part of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the committee decided to support the application and put in place an appropriate draft decree on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Fesenko Leonid Ivanovich. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u126	I bet on the vote Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Fesenko Leonid Ivanovich. [[Registration number 7172-3]] [[12:17:23]] For 389 Decision taken. Here's the next order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u127	Honourable National Deputies, the committee at its meeting on September 8, 2010, reviewed and decided to support the statement made by Ukrainian National MP Salamatin Dmitry Albertovitch for his parliamentary credentials. In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, the relevant draft Ordinance on the permanent termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Salamatin Dmitr Albertovich is proposed for you. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u128	Honourable National MPs, I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the power of Ukrainian National Deputy Salamatin Dmitr Albertovich. [[Registration number 711]] Please vote. [[12:18:35]] For 365 Decision taken. Thank you. Next order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, registration number 8067. For your consideration, it is proposed that I consider the second part of article 78 and the second part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. A statement by Ukrainian national deputy Boyarczuk Aleksija Valeriyovich about his delegation’s credentials was made in the name of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 11, 2010. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u130	Honourable People's Deputies, I'm putting to the vote the draft Decree 8067 on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Boyarczuk Alexia Valeriyovich. [[12:19:47]] For 383 Decision taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u131	Honourable National Deputies, the committee at its meeting on September 8, 2010, reviewed the statement made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kaletnik Igor Grigorovitch, regarding his appointment as head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service. On the basis of the first part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the Committee decided to support the application and put in place an appropriate draft decree on the early termination of the powers of Ukraine's national deputy, Kaletnik Igor Grigorovič. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u132	I'm betting on a draft decree on the permanent termination of the mandate of Ukrainian National Deputy Kaletnik Igor Grigorovich. [[12:20:55]] For 346 Decision taken. So what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u133	There is further information provided by our national deputies, who made timely statements in connection with the appointment of executive authorities to terminate their duties. However, they were told to withdraw applications for the appointment of national deputies in connection with the dismissal of positions. This is Vasilyev Hennady Andriyovich, Gorbal Vasil Mihajlovich, Shershun Mikola Haritonovich. It's for information.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u134	What about the others?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u135	What are the questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u136	Please sign up, honorary colleagues, five minutes. Please state the names of the national MPs. Pavlovsky Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u137	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please give it to Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u138	Sergei Sass, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear reporter, dear colleagues! The point is that there is a statement by the national deputy Babayeva about the permanent cessation of authority. In the media, he was told that he had written and did not understand why the Supreme Council did not stop his mandate. Therefore, we have no reason not to consider the application today. We have no reason not to consider putting an end to the mandate of Kaskova, a national deputy assigned to an investment agency. A two - time committee asked him to write an application for his credentials, but until then he had not responded by sending certain letters to the committee. So, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I ask you to put to the vote the question of the permanent suspension of the authority of the national deputy Babeyeva and the national deputy Kaskov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u140	Thank you for asking. In fact, a statement came from the national deputy of Babayev Oleg Maidanovic. “In connection with his election to the post of city head of the city of Kremenczuk Poltava district, please withdraw my parliamentary authority from me.” The statement came in the name of the Head of the Supreme Council, registered. But the committee hasn't considered it yet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this is a moral issue. He was a member of the BUT faction. Your colleagues were in no hurry. The other night, you shut him down. The committee couldn't look into it in one day. At the next meeting, we will consider it. [[B in m in s a l in]] After the expulsion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u141	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u142	There's a committee decision on Boyarczuk. In Babayev, there is no committee. With regard to the national deputy Kaskov Vladislav Volodymyrovich, the committee had, in fact, twice written a letter to the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u143	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u144	The Committee has twice informed the Kaskov People's Deputy that if it fails to submit an application for the appointment of a national deputy under the Constitution, decisions will be made on the early termination of its powers on the basis of the law. Therefore, let the hall be made available.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u145	Dear National Deputies! Well, let's ask the question, then we'll move on. Are we stopping asking questions? Tooshenko now. Please. There is a question for Steshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u146	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think it's appropriate for Sergey Volodymyrovich to continue with the questions, and we have agreed in this room on those national MPs who are giving quite interesting interviews, and the applications are not in a hurry to be submitted. Sasu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u147	You're handing over the right to ask Sass? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move away from double standards. The statement of the national deputy was not considered by Boyarczuk on our committee, but we voted in good faith to end the term of office. More than 30 days have passed since the submission of the national representative of Babel. The committee did not consider the matter. So today we have every reason to consider the matter without the committee’s decision. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and Kaskiwa, the same thing, please put my proposal to the vote in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u149	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u150	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u151	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, there are obvious proposals, so we still have a serious enough agenda, I would ask colleagues to stop the discussion and vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u152	Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, well, the fact that there is a selective right in our country, selective legislation, we are now stressing that we have selective morality and so forth. Well, logically absolutely, let go of all the ambitions and all that sort of thing, pick a man, I mean Babayeva, pick the mayor of the big city, he works in Kremenczuk. The man filed an application, the committee head tells us that the committee was unable to consider it. Is that a complicated question? Thirty days have passed. Is this a question that needs to be discussed, and is it necessary? The man filed an application and I want to leave the deputies, do the professional work she was chosen to do. Well, why are you doing this? I don't know, didn't the committee consider what else to consider? Vladimir Mikhailovich, at least save some moral authority from the Supreme Council. How can that be? Put these questions to the vote and ask colleagues, let's vote and finish this question. It has been hanging over all of us for a year now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, questions, time is up. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's already a whole list. So let's move forward, I'm now going to put a motion to vote to consider the issue of the early termination of the mandate of Deputy Babeyeva without the committee's consideration of his application. [[B in m in s a l in]] Me, too. The Supreme Council will support, then there is a real outcome that will be accepted by the House. It's a decision. Do you agree with me, with such a question? [[B in m in s a l in]] Everyone. I'll put each one apart. I am voting on the proposal to review the statement made by the national deputy Babayev on the permanent termination of the terms of reference only to the appropriateness of his application. Please vote. Babayev Oleg Maydanovich. [[12:28:21]] For 364 Decision taken. Now I'm putting the draft ruling to the vote. What? Well, it's not Kaskov we're not looking at. I am now putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Babejeva Oleg Maidanović. Please vote. [[12:29:00]] For 369 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko information.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I wanted to provide information before we discuss Kaskov's issues. It is that, regardless of what the President's decree is about his appointment, there is not yet a legal person, that is, we can't talk about him being a member of the executive body of the Supreme Council now. So he probably hasn't written a statement yet, and that's why we need to pay attention, gentlemen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take it. Well, calm down! Take all the warnings, all the suggestions. And with this in mind, I am voting on the proposal to consider the issue of the early termination of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Kaskov Vladislav Volodymyrovich. Please vote. [[12:30:22]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] The point is, my fellow officers, that the committee yesterday sent me its decision to refer this case to the court. I've given an order to the General Legal Authority to prepare a lawsuit. I think the next few days he'll be sent to court. If there's no other action on this issue. Thank you. The motives are over, dear colleagues. A draft Act amending article 75 of the Banking and Banking Act is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the duration of the temporary administration's mandate]] Registration number 8050. Please, Your Honor, consider this matter in a simplified manner. [[12:31:31]] For 180. Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The previous vote on previous laws has shown that when we do not discuss politics and overemotion, the Chamber has a sound and sound vote. I propose a similar philosophy when considering the proposed draft law. The bottom line is this. The financial crisis has caused enormous damage to all sectors of the economy, including the banking sector. In order to preserve the impact of the financial crisis in the banking sector, funds were channelled towards the recapitalisation of the system-based banks, and temporary administrations were introduced to resuscitate these banks, whose task is to find investors, to address the causes. Do not close the bank and make it impossible for the investor to obtain his contributions and the task of the interim administration to resume the bank. Practice has shown that the 12 months allocated are not enough for this work. It is proposed that this period be extended to 18 months. It makes perfect sense. The Committee has considered this issue and proposes the adoption of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u158	Have a seat, please. Secretary of the Committee on Finance and Banking. I got confused, my dear colleagues, I apologize, I took the lead on the committee, and Crotuk Vladimir Leonidovich, the deputy head of the National Bank, did not speak. Please write it down on the basis of emotion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u159	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The National Bank of Ukraine has prepared a draft Act amending article 75 of the Banking and Banking Act, which proposes to increase by six months the deadline for the National Bank to continue its temporary administration for system-based banks. The practice of temporary administration in system-based banks shows that a temporary administrator is not always able to restore the financial capacity of large banks during the statutory term. In particular, this is related to a large number of temporary administrator-in-chief cases initiated with regard to the recovery of assets and the dissolution of contracts involving banks that are corrupt and not necessary for the bank. It is generally known that such cases can be dealt with by courts of various institutions for quite a long time. On the other hand, as soon as possible, the term of temporary administration of system-based banks, including state-capitalised ones, ends during a period of financial crisis. Today, however, its financial situation does not allow it to resume normal activity. In this situation, the possibility of extending the term of temporary administration will allow the most complete protection of the financial interests of investors and other creditors. In addition, the extension of the term of the temporary administration will avoid significant costs of the fund to guarantee the investments of individuals that may arise in the event of the liquidation of banks, which is a considerable amount of money. It is also worth mentioning the experience of settling this issue in other countries’ legislation, such as the Dutch Financial Supervisory Act, which limits the term of office of an administrator for 18 months. And at the same time, it provides for the possibility of extending this term for another 18 months. Thus, under today’s conditions, when the banking system resumes its activities after a financial crisis, an increase in the term of temporary administration for large banks is essential. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u160	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up for the discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Davidenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". John the Rabbit will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u161	Dear National Deputies, the National Bank proposes to authorize it to continue operating as a temporary administration for system-based banks for up to 18 months. This is a very symbolic offer. Such a proposal symbolizes a policy of further weakening the supervision of the National Bank for Banking, a policy of further weakening investor protection, a policy of asset theft, and not only of banks, but also of investors. Why? First. The practice of temporary administrations testifies to their extreme inefficiencies and their longevity. Let me remind you that current legislation takes one year for temporary administrations. What it takes a temporary administrator to describe the assets, liabilities of the bank, write a report, propose the ways of the bank's resolution. Practice shows that there are only two ways to solve the problem of banks that have failed: either rapid recovery or liquidation. It takes up to three months, 18 months, to determine the path. The other one. Again, the practice of temporary administrations has shown that not only do they not keep the bank's assets from being ripped apart, but they lead the process, we give away everything they want, we give to strangers a portion of their property, money, and difference. Here all the novels can be written as they steal investor property. And the third. No one has been affected by such administrations, but an entire class of willing mud administrators has been formed, transferring from one bank to another bank. One bank has been robbed, one bank has been stolen, one bank has been stolen. Add to that the cost of restructuring banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u162	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u163	I'm done. And you will imagine the extent of the spoiling of good. Therefore, honourable Members, I urge you not to vote in favour of this bill, because it will only continue to steal property.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u164	Vladimir Bondarenko conveys the right to speak to Stanislav Argewittin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u165	Deputies! I'll tell you what, and I'll put other emphasis on this bill. First, under the legislation of today, the National Bank has the right for system-based banks to create temporary administrations for two years. This time. This bill is asked to continue for another six months, that is, 2.5 years. I'll give you an example of the deposit that this proves. The bank where you are serving is in place. a temporary administration has been declared. You come to collect your deposits, you're offered new conditions. You refuse. You're invited to go to court. You make a court decision, but for 2.5 years this court decision will not be implemented. If he makes it clear to your bank that in two and a half years, you'll be reimbursed for the costs that came before the court. The cost of 2.5 years is free. I think you know this problem, you've come across it. Here's an example. I think this bill is being initiated from the point of view to save these three banks are problematic. But trust me, a bank worker, if in two years the state has not decided what to do with this bank, it won't make a decision in six months. So my offer, Your Honor, is next. To solve the problems that we're talking about today, we're talking about three banks. We must adopt either a special law or a special decree for these banks. And make a decision to either cure them or eliminate them. That's the first one. This bill has to be rejected. Because by translating the problem of shareholders, the problems of the state on the people's side, because we're increasing the temporary administration, it's wrong. So I suggest you think you know about these problems. Six months goes by as one day and we don't solve the problem in 2-3 banks, but destroying the system's approach to the formation of temporary administrations is wrong. Therefore I ask you to listen to my thoughts. Thank you. I don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've completed our discussion of the bill, the committee, once again, I remind you, is offering to accept it as a basis and as a whole, because there's nothing to refer to two readings. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I therefore put to the vote the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Act amending article 75 of the Banking and Banking Act. [[concerning the duration of the temporary administration's mandate]] Please vote. [[12:41:39]] For 239. The law is passed. Thank you. You said you objected to the law at all, but you didn't say that just on the basis, I counted your statement. Well, dear fellows, I did, I beg you, I made a recommendation. No, on the basis and in general, I put the committee's proposal to the vote. So you came forward and said that you object to the law, not "on the basis" and "in general". You didn't say you didn't say you didn't mind. Well, I've already voted. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Land is under review. [[on the prevention of corruption and bribery in land relations]] There is a letter from the National MP and other drafters of the draft bill on withdrawal and withdrawal from the bill. So, honourable colleagues, we need to vote on the drafts. Because the drafters of the bill asked me to remove Be Bebazenko, Sigal, Tereshuk and Karmazin. I'm voting on the draft bill, registration number 2517. Please vote. [[12:43:02]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider the 2011 Bill on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the Hero City of Kiev. The author asks the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw the bill. I'm betting on a motion to withdraw the bill. [[Registration number 2011]] Please vote. [[12:43:43]] For 246 Decision taken. Also, honourable colleagues, the author of Bill 7400 is the draft of the Amnesty Act. They requested a postponement of the bill. I'm voting on the proposal, I'm voting on the first proposal -- the postponement of the draft Amnesty Act. [[Registration number 7400]] [[12:44:27]] For-89 Dear fellows, you have the faction you want. Yeah, take care of yourself. Let us turn to the consideration of the Amnesty Law. One part goes forward, the other part goes forward. Please consider the reduced procedure, as we have 15 minutes to begin consideration of the issue in the area of “Variable”. I would like to vote on the issue of a reduced procedure. [[12:45:12]] For 212 Okay, guys, I'm sorry, 212. I beg your pardon, national deputies, keep your humor for your family, and work here, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u167	Yes, calm down. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u168	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. And I'd like to say before I start my speech, Mr. President, how to deal with the bill is decided by voting. We may have different positions and points of view, but for that, there is a voting institution that allows us to make decisions. For your consideration, a bill on amnesty is proposed. [[Registration number 7400]] [[of 25.11.2010]] The need to adopt this bill is due to the following circumstances. The Amnesty Institute is an integral component of Ukrainian criminal law policy and is provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. The designated institution is right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u169	Yuri Romanovich, I'm sorry. Here, indeed, is a just question. Who are you reporting from?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u170	By the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u171	From the authors? The drafters of the bill. Yes, there is, there is, there is. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u172	I'm already, I'm already, you know, I'll tell you. Dear colleagues, for two years there was no amnesty in the country. Although we have to deal with this issue every year and solve it. The President of Ukraine is talking about the need to humanize criminal legislation. We're working on the Code of Criminal Procedure for the Protection of Human Rights. We have prisons full of people who already have, who are supposed to be long on the loose and work in the farm, who are now in prison. That is why the bill is actually proposed for us to consider it and to solve it in a civilized European way. Thank you and I hope for your support. I emphasize that in the first reading, we can adopt it, and then we can work on the second reading so that there is no comment. And all the proposals, including the opposition, will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u173	Thank you. Only one thing, I remind you, is that in the second reading we can work out according to 116 articles, only what is in the first. Please, from the committee, head of the committee's committee on law enforcement, Moysik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u174	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The issue of amnesty in our country is regulated by the Constitution, a provision that amnesty is strictly approved by law. The Criminal Procedure Code, the Amnesty Act in Ukraine and the specific Amnesty Act in each year or in a separate year. Thus, respectable colleagues, the law now passed by the authors, also reproduces the provisions of the Amnesty Law in 2008. And it seemed possible to agree with him. But in February of this year, we approved Law 4179, which changes the position of the basic law on the application of amnesty in Ukraine. It changes these positions in principle. So if we pass this law, and later on we get to Law 4179, it's going to be fundamentally, fundamentally different from each other. Therefore, the committee believes that changes to the basic law should be awaited, in view of Parliament’s support for the idea of authors of the law that amnesty should be applied following an indictment when a person is found guilty. However, fewer persons should fall under amnesty and so forth. And the number of people who are freed from amnesty sentences is 16 amnestyes in the years of an independent Ukraine. The last amnesty in 2008 – 2,000,743 people were released. 2007 - 1.674. So it's not in that sense that she's overcrowding in prisons, that there's no law. But we need to take a systematic approach to his approval. Therefore, the committee suggests that we wait for changes to the basic law and then adopt a new amnesty.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u175	Vladimir Romanovich, I'm sorry. Although the procedure has been shortened, as a professional, give me the answer to your questions. Perhaps we should write, the law of Ukraine on amnesty in that year. Because we accept for years. And so it turns out that dozens of laws are about amnesty. I mean, what I'm saying is, if we take it later, it's about amnesty in 2011. () [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what we're talking about. Okay, thanks. Please sign up for the performance. Yes, please. Pavlovsky Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, it is really necessary and humane action to carry out an amnesty every year, but I have one warning that we do not release these for political prisoners. Because now more than 100 cases are being violated by mass repression against the same tax collectors who have opposed the Tax Code. And in an idiotic case of pavement terrorism, people, more than 100 men, sew what appears to have damaged the pavement tiles on the Main Independence Day. And now we see that they're destroying the evidence of the thing, they're translating it so that nothing can be proved, all the more so that it wasn't damaged. And if it was damaged, perhaps in the blue areas that were held in 2007, you will not be able to prove it. So, I urge you, amnesty needs to be supported, but remember that we already have political prisoners like Makarenko, Didenko, the same Yuri Lucenko, who are six months behind bars and who are the leaders of opposition parties and think that we are losing the image of a democratic country. And Ukraine's ratings have fallen because they don't have democratic freedom, there's limited freedom of speech, there's political prisoners, there's 15 people sitting in Zaporozhye's patriotic youth. [[Incomprehensible for what, no evidence]] All of this claims that there are massive political repressions in the country, so I think that God forbid we then have to conduct an amnesty of political prisoners who are already in the country, better not be in the country at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u177	Please, Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u178	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". I want to give the word to a man who is deeply concerned about the fact that the prisons are overcrowded, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u179	Please, Yuri Carmazin. So far, Deputy Prime Minister, then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u180	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. We'll take a joint position with Vladimir Karpuk. I would like to tell you, honourable national deputies, that the committee, the committee head of the committee of Moses, has informed us right now, a bill that has already been processed and is ready for adoption in our session room, which we have approved with you, which is called "The Application of Amnesty in Ukraine." Moreover, a member of the majority, General Malishev, a powerful man, has registered a new amnesty bill with the application of novels supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a result, this bill, now introduced on November 25, 2010, is extremely crude. You look at the observation of scientific and scientific governance. Just a few things I will quote: “We believe that the unconditional release from punishment of all the persons mentioned in the article is excessive, since it does not take into account the threefold purpose of punishment defined in article 50 of the Criminal Code: punishment, correction of convicted persons and prevention of new crimes, both convicted persons and others, disregards the interests of the victim and legal satisfaction and may provoke the facts of self-punitive punishment.” [[That means 1st.]] Such a decision devalues the very essence of criminal punishment, and it would therefore be appropriate to foresee in a project that a release on the basis of the Amnesty Law from punishment for crimes that have caused serious consequences is possible only if a portion of the sentence is imposed. And it's about what's proposed to amnesty those who have severe consequences, where death in the form of human death, where the death of a minor, where immunodeficiency infection, and so on. These articles should be excluded. So I'm going to make sure that we don't look at this law right now, and we're going to reject it, and we're going to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, Pisarenko Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, as one of the co-authors of this law, I would also like to express my opinion on the observations. First of all, let us remind ourselves that for two years Parliament has not taken into account its constitutional obligation to protect and amnesty human rights. We didn't have the Amnesty Law for two years. That's the first one. The other one. With regard to the Law on the Application of the Amnesty Law. It's nonsense, it can't be like that. Read the Constitution. The right norm of the Constitution, Parliament adopts the Amnesty Law, which is immediately implemented by the courts. Third. Regarding what is being said today about the shortcomings of this bill. I also want to remind you that we have a bill year after year. We're going with you on the same bill. Moreover, if you look at it, there may also be comas in the same place. So I propose that we do our constitutional duty today, accept the first reading accurately, and then meet with those who have the appropriate comments today, and work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u183	Yes, please, Moses, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, I asked Adam Ivanovich, from whom Yuri Romanovich spoke, because he did not count among the authors of the bill, but. That's what he said. I support the drafters of the bill in saying that amnesty is needed, because, in fact, for 2 years, it's the third year she's been gone. The law or bill is absolutely in line with the law that was passed in 2008. We've already voted in favour of him. But the only legal and technical warning from the committee, which is the basic law that otherwise regulates amnesty in Ukraine, is fundamentally different. So are we going to do this grace today and then go to that law and see if we can wait for that law and make a new amnesty with respect to that law. So the choice of the session hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u185	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, I understand that we agreed that when I asked lawyers about the product, they agreed to clarify the Amnesty Law in 2011. There will be no denying that it is in such an editorial way that we believe that the Amnesty Law in 2011 is not that. So there's no understanding that this is the basic amnesty law. Then I put to the vote the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Amnesty Act in 2011. [[Registration number 7400]] [[12:58:29]] For 311 Decision taken. And, dear fellows, we should be considering a draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance. [[Registration number 2497]] The National MP Zuravko, the author of the legislative initiative, wrote a letter of appeal to the bill. Please support this proposal. [[12:59:08]] For 243 Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the Vulnerable. Please sign up. Please show the list. Kuzmenko, Party of Regions. Yeah, I can't see Kuzmanka. I don't see Kuzmank! Please, Demchishen. Davidenko, please. John the Rabbit. Glasun's, please. And the rabbit is the tenth. So, two minutes, six minutes. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Ukrainian People's Party, I would like to draw your attention to a number of socially important issues that depend entirely on authority. First. Citizens rightly complain of a steady rise in prices, such as food, which rapidly exacerbates the lives of tens of millions of Ukrainians, deepens social differentiation in society, and widens the gap between the poor and the rich. But we don't see President Viktor Yanukovic's decisions and the government's decisions to curb this process, nor the strategic decisions, nor the tactical decisions. The governing regime has both worked and continues to work as part of the extreme views of the nature of the Ukrainian economy imposed by the oligarchic clans on Ukrainian society. Instead of working on the restoration and protection of national production, such as agriculture and the construction of the internal market, the authorities are building a state-owned economy only for the sake of the export and import business. Such policies cannot, in principle, stop the price increase and further looting of most citizens by oligarchs. As the clearest example of the lack of a control regime to curb price increases is the situation in the energy market, in the fuel market, such as gasoline. The government explains the rise in oil prices and the impossibility to intervene in the pricing process as an unconscious refusal. The government refuses to acknowledge that fuel quality control is the key to solving this problem. We know that the quality of gasoline is low. The real price of gasoline, given its range, is much higher than we see in the prescurantes. Now, it's already in excess of European. The government should be able to reach the price-compliant petrol distributors, and there are no limits to the government. This is not done, however, under the brand of business liberalisation, the government and the Supreme Council have been weakening the quality of goods and services, such as food and fuel, gasoline. That's why the Ukrainian People's Party requires the government and the parliamentary majority to bring about order in the area of pricing, the policy of stealing from citizens' oligarchs, and the creation of an attractive statistical, economic picture because of price growth, should be put to an end. Another problem. The Supreme Council imposed a five - year moratorium on the removal, destruction of green plants in Kiev. This radical step of Parliament was supported by the widest capital public. Kiev’s residents hoped that at last, in their hands and in the hands of the prosecutor’s office, law - enforcement agencies, the ministries would find an effective tool to stop the capital’s desalination, with all the negative effects on citizens’ health and leisure. But the authorities are not in a hurry to use this law for the benefit of all citizens of the capital, and more than that, it is looking through the fingers at those who violate this moratorium. In fact, both local authorities and statesmen not only indulge criminals but also act as accomplices to this infamous phenomenon. Here are some examples: in the wake of the Green Planting Moratorium Act, there is large-scale logging on the island of Zhukov, of course, under the “workers” cottage. Here she “showed herself, ” in paws, not only by the local Kyiv authorities, but also by the Supreme Court. In an agreement with money - laden people, the local authorities cut down eight times the protected territory on the island of Zhukov, and the Supreme Court legitimized the crime. The environmental community recorded the destruction of the trees in Victory Park, in Darnica and in Hydropark, most likely for the construction of restaurants. The list of violations can be continued. This complaint came from residents of several buildings on the street of Barbus, located in the area of the Central Stadium on the Cheropa Mountains, where 178 trees were cut down. There will be a power station for the Central Stadium, which is the Euro-2012 facility. This is also a catch, for such a general overview of the situation shows that it would be possible to build this substation elsewhere, without cutting out so many trees or creating threats for the citizens themselves. Therefore, the Ukrainian People's Party requires our government, the Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Ecology, to protect the environment, to abide by the Law on the Moratorium for the removal of green plantings in Kiev. Not to commit this crime, but to put up a blind spot. I want to draw your attention to the third problem. You can see that the policy of cleansing Ukrainian Ukraine, which is all in the spirit realm, is being implemented today. The Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kiev Patriarchate is now under this attack. The authorities pressure the priests of this church to move to Moscow’s Patriarchate. The authorities pressure the sponsors to put the same pressure on the flock and these priests. We reject this kind of policy because we think it's an intervention in the activities of the church, it's a policy of power within the doctrine of Russian peace that doesn't foresee the existence of the Ukrainian state. Therefore, we take firm action against such politics and turn to the faithful Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kiev Patriarchate to preserve our congregation, to preserve the integrity of our church.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u187	Please, Demchisin. Plus, he's given the word "Horbatuk" for six minutes. Glazonov gives his word, prepare Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u188	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues! I would like to draw attention to one of the specific issues in the area of territorial administration, which has now become a state-wide issue, reflecting the entire array of problems of a legislative, social, economic nature that have taken place both before the inhabitants of one of the population and before the authorities of the state. In the mid-'60s, a military section had been placed on the borders of the Žitomir and Kyiv regions for the past century to ensure the strategic defence of the Soviet Union. The military town where the soldiers and their families lived was named Makariv-1. Although this is, of course, an informal appointment, since it was an extraordinary secrecy regime. Since the beginning of Ukraine’s independence, there has been no need for such a part. Now only a small part of the town’s population is connected with the operation of this military facility. Macarov-1 is actually a compact neighborhood of urban multistory in the forest, where more than 2.5 thousand people live, quite young at an age, including many children. The local secondary school has more than 300 pupils, and there are no schoolchildren in any village or village in Ukraine with the same population. With the beginning of the reform of the Makarov-1 Armed Forces, there are extremely complex social problems that they have reported and continue to inform the higher authorities. It was the maintenance of housing funds, engineering communications, social facilities such as school, kindergartens, officers ’ homes, transportation, employment. The lack of funding from the Ministry of Defense, weakness and too much cost of heating systems, the need for gasification. And this is where the main link without resolving any other issue is almost impossible to solve, which is in the field of competence of the Supreme Council. Residents pointed to a violation of their electoral rights, it turns out that more than two thousand people over 20 years of independence of Ukraine and just 100 kilometers away from the capital have been deprived of voting in local elections, elected by local authorities. This is due to the fact that there is no official settlement on the base of the Makarov-1 military town. So the inhabitants are, and there's no inhabited site, and it's not accounted for, and it's not assigned to any area of the area, and it doesn't have or choose its own local authority. The head of the territorial community is neither elected nor elected. An attempt to resolve this issue and officially create a population site has been made over the last seven years, first by the submission of the Kiev and Zitomir District Councils in 2004, 2005 and then by the legislative initiative of the People's Deputies of Ukraine Pak and Pisarenko in 2006-2008. It was proposed that a military town, one of Makarov’s settlements in the Kyiv region, should be established. This was also the concern of the town’s inhabitants, who have been working for decades in the Kyiv-Svetoshin region. They were used by health and social security facilities in the area, they also had a license in the Kyiv-Svetoshin region and transport connections were better in the direction of Kiev than Zitomir, although they were much closer to Radomisl, the Zitomirščina Reycentrum, to the people of Makarov-1 than to the Kyivščina Reycentrum. At the same time, the secondary school finances part of the educational system from the Makarov region’s budget, not the Rodomisylski Žitomir district. Our committee carefully analyzed and considered these proposals, and this is where we saw the main legislative obstacle at the level of the Constitution of Ukraine. It turns out that military objects are located in the territory of Kyiv and Zitomir regions. But this is exactly the settlement, which is the residential area, Makariov-1 is in the area of the U.S. However, the Constitution does not mention a subject of authority who can change the boundaries of the areas. According to article 85, paragraph 29, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the authority to establish and change the boundaries of cities and districts. The possibilities and changes in the scopes of the Constitution of Ukraine, I repeat, are not foreseen. I mean, without any changes to the Constitution, we're not going to be able to solve this. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on December 1, 2010, established a working group of committees under my direction to study the possibility of creating a settlement based on Makarov-1. And solving all the relevant issues that I have already discussed. On December 20, 2010, the working group held its field meeting directly on a mission in Makarov-1, where they met with residents of the town, the public, the military. The most painful and important issues of concern to the inhabitants of the town were identified when they met with the people. Among them is the gasification of the populace, the employment of the inhabitants, and all the other issues that I talked about above. Members of the working group saw with their own eyes the conditions in which the people of the military town lived. In the forest range, within two areas, away from other locations and places of possible employment, housing, and so forth. I'd like to say that the socio-economic problems of Makarov-1 are not unique. They're in the Lviv region, in the city of Kyorovograd, the days of Propetra. It's just around Macarov-1 that they're the most concentrated. I believe that the proponents of the state, the military pensioners and their families cannot be left without our help and that this assistance should become a matter of national importance. I personally and have met members of the working group on many occasions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u189	Yes, thank you. Ivan Popescu. The pitcher's telling Deich to get ready. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u190	Thank you, Popescu, faction of the Party of Regions. Masterful colleagues! At the end of last year, you and I adopted the State Budget Act for Ukraine 2011. This was positive, since the central and local authorities were able to make proper calculations on income and expenditure at the right time. Make appropriate changes to the application approval. But I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the amendment 347 that I and Deputy Romanyuk made during the 2011 draft budget, on the initiative of the Montenegrin District Administration to anticipate the funding for a comprehensive national anniversary of the outstanding artists of our culture: 70th anniversary of the birth of the film actor, screenwriter and director John Mikolaychuk and 60th anniversary of the birth of the national artist of Ukraine, Nazari Jaremczuk. Since the idea of financing these events as a separate budget programme did not then find support in the hall and taking into account our arrangements with the Minister of Finance during the preparation of the 2011 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. We propose to fund them either in the framework of a budget programme based on cultural and cultural public action and State support for regional, cultural and amateur initiatives called the 1801170 expenditure code, which was already approved at the time of adoption of the budget. Or provide for funding for a separate programme in preparation for amendments to the State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2011. Please consider my statement an official request to the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Culture. The same applies to the celebration in 2011 of the 600th anniversary of the first written reference under the other title, "The village of the Lower Petrovci of the Watchtower Region of Montenegro", which I have already talked about from this rostrum in 2010, drawing this attention to the Ministry of Culture. Sadly, though, I received a receipt. Please also consider this my MP's request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u191	Thank you. Please. Boris Dutch to prepare Bondarenko Oleni.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u192	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected Ukrainian citizens, colleague! I want to draw your attention to the security concerns of Ukrainian tourists abroad. In the light of the current developments in several countries, especially Egypt, our legislation on tourism security has become apparent, especially with regard to the responsibility of tourism market participants for the life and health of tourists. Today, there are over 6,000 Ukrainian tourists in Egypt, where mass unrest continues and continues since 25 January. Last week, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs held a meeting with tour operators at which it recommended the suspension of travel to Egypt. Despite warnings, however, six flights, 31, 1 more flights and all full-loaded flights took place only from Borispol on 30 January. At the same time, leaders of tourism firms in the media continue to assure citizens of the security of Egyptian tours. As a person who has spent many years in tourism, I understand that in this case, the interests of tourism companies and the desire to avoid the loss of profits are at stake. But as a citizen, I am absolutely convinced that this is immoral and I think that most Ukrainian citizens share my confidence. Such acts by tour operators are motivated by full confidence, impunity and lack of any responsibility to the State and its citizens for their lives and health. The situation in Egypt is extremely volatile and that is why the Cabinet of Ministers established a relief headquarters for citizens in Egypt on 2 February. The Government is aware that the supposed tranquillity at the resorts can be turned into a total emergency evacuation and this will, of course, be done at the expense of the State and, more precisely, its taxpayers and 10 million bracelets have already been allocated to the Ministry of Finance. Is it not too expensive to pay for the safety and dangerous irresponsibility of travel managers? Many countries of the world are evacuating their citizens without any tragic consequences. The tournaments stopped the sale of travel, and the airlines simply cancelled the flight to Egypt. In this situation, as a national MP, I believe it is necessary to amend the current Ukrainian legislation as a matter of urgency with a view to enhancing responsibility to the criminal market for the safety of tourists. Please consider this statement as a parliamentary request and send it to the Cabinet of Ministers for an indefinite response.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u193	Thank you. Please, Olena Bondarenko. Prepare Gnatkewicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to cite only one but very eloquent example, such as the authorities of Yanukovič and his associates in a mad desire to deal with the opposition, particularly with the leader of Fatherland, Yulia Timoshenko, who is a cynical abuser of the Ukrainian people. The urgent need for transportation for rural hospitals was discussed a year and a half ago by participants in a meeting of village and village heads. The officials received, and I am convinced, thousands of appeals from rural health workers and villagers have been asked to provide some transportation to help the sick in the remotest villages in time. Indeed, rural mortality is 37 percent higher than in cities. And 60 percent of dead people in rural areas die just because they're late. As part of the Rural Medicine government programme, Opel Combo vehicles were transferred for the needs of rural outpatients. Today’s authorities are looking for new absurd excuses for the charges against Julia Timoshenko, committing a real moral crime by depriving rural people of basic medical care of their right to salvation. I received a call from the people of the countryside who served in Paradise. The town’s rural infirmary in the Burdicchiv district of Žitomir. They say that with the arrival of an ambulance under the Rural Medicine program, I quote: “...the level of medical care and, above all, the rate of delivery has improved considerably. There have been many times when our doctors rescued people from death and all because they quickly made their way to the scene. Especially are older ones in need of a car. With the coming of the new power, the car was taken away without warning without consulting the villagers. It's been a big blow, you could say, a tragedy for people who belong to the infirmary. We ask for your help in returning the vehicle to Rygorodoracka Ambulance. The infirmary serves 6 locations, 2,000, 700 people. The distance from villages to the district hospital three times, five times as far as the infirmary. During February and December 2010, doctors made 900 trips to help farmers. On December 27, Opel Combo's ambulance was taken from her and transferred to the district hospital of Berdichov. Ms. Lutka's chief physician at the central district hospital has concluded that the car is ineffective in the use of ambulances, because he is, I quote, "not assigned to the transport of serious diseases" and, think about it, his run is less than the cars of a rally factory. So it's supposed to be used in the CRL. This means, following the logic of Mrs. Lutsky, that the people of the 6 villages do not need such assistance. This means that when the pressure and the old person suddenly rises, someone is injured, it is no longer to be expected that after the call to the infirmary a few minutes will come. Please consider my statement as a request for Prime Minister Azarov to ensure the return of the car expropriated in the Rygorodoracka Ambulatory.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u195	I'd like to invite National Deputy Yuri Gnatkewicz. Orestes Mutz will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u196	Dear colleagues! Yuri Gnatkevitch, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". At first, at the request of my colleague Victor Terrena, I wanted to talk about how the vast majority eliminated the quotas for Ukrainian music, the Ukrainian song on our television, and how much he had done and what he had done for the Ukrainian language, Dmitri Tobacco. And the last thing he said was, you could put a monument to Stalin or anyone else in any yard. But I decided to tell you something else. You know, I haven't been to the pharmacy since 1980. I am treated with fasts and prayers. But my wife was in trouble, and she fell, well, broke her arm. And here I am regularly following medicines called "Lioton Gel." I came to the pharmacy and paid attention. A tube like this, which is actually like toothpaste, is 80 bucks 69 bucks. A week later, I went to a different pharmacy, which was a 25 - page bracelet 71. So 10 dollars is less. I went to the same pharmacy -- 83 bracelets later, 71 copies later. And then he left recently, a few days ago -- already 86 bracelets of 69. It's not just a big price to pay. On each box, you can see the different price is written. It's not just a big price to pay. I saw a woman getting old with trembling hands getting something out of her wallet, probably the last of it. I'm surprised by the other thing. Who controls it in the state?Oh, my God! Who's doing this?Oh, my God! Recently, Prime Minister Azarov said, answering the question that the Cabinet of Ministers does not set prices. But somehow he has to control it! Otherwise, what will happen to our people and to our nation? I remind you that Julia Timoshenko and her Cabinet of Ministers once made a decision to freeze the price rise in pharmacies. And Yushchenko, President of that time, literally the second day, without waiting for the third day, vetoed this decree. She says it's non-marketable. So if we go in that market, we're going to take the entire Ukrainian people by the throat. Because prices are rising so that more and more people are collecting bottles in front of me on the beach, and more and more people are digging into trash. And I'd like to turn yours, colleagues. Look at the pharmaceutical precision in the pharmacies! 80 bucks 69 bucks! 83 bracelets 71 pcs! Where do they take this money? That's 1 kip, 9 kips? These are the right, fair, and exact prices we have but disproportionately high! I'm asking the government to finally put it in order and control the price rises in pharmacies, especially in low-priced pharmacies, which have now appeared in Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u197	Thank you. I would appropriately like to prepare such a parliamentary request for government to inform us about the situation with the prices in pharmacies. I would like to invite the People's Deputy Orestes Mutz, the faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u198	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ternopolishte. Honorable citizens, colleagues, the President and the Government of Ukraine have chosen a clear course of combating corruption. Attraction to the responsibility of corrupt ex-governments and officials already has a positive resonance in society. At the same time, this shameful social phenomenon can be overcome when the process of cleansing the unclean at the hands of government officials takes place not only in the capital but also in the areas. An example of such a truly massive fight against corruption today may be Ternopilska. For decades, regardless of the color of authority, there has been, such as, a caste of untouchable officials who have been wise to sit on the loaves, using various corrupt schemes to enrich themselves. But once the formation of the new executive power of the power vertical had been virtually completed in the area, such woeful officials immediately felt that none of them would have immunity from the rule of law. Today, at the time of the bribe, the ex-head of the Borschev Reichsgericht has been arrested in Ternopilland. This Wednesday, the Ternopil Press raises questions about the head of the Regional CRU and the Architectural and Construction Inspection, as well as the three directors of state enterprises, about their activities, which can be described as corrupt. Each of them has been given a parliamentary address to the head of the State Administration, as well as to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. I would like to point out that the position of decisive action against all forms of corruption is fully shared by the head of the Ternopil State Administration, Valentin Hoptyan, and together we will overcome this unacceptable phenomenon in our country. Today, from this rostrum, I am addressing not only you, my distinguished colleagues, but also my fellow countrymen, whom I want to assure -- the time of the caste of the untouchable has passed. Today, the authorities are being cleansed and we must go to the only front, friends, and countrymen to fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u199	I would like to invite the People's Deputy Andrija Parubia, the faction “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”. He will be followed by Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, a faction of Communists in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u200	Parobaj Andrey, Party of Our Ukraine. Our Ukraine condemns and expresses its firm disagreement with the plans and decisions of the local councils on the closure of Ukrainian-speaking schools in the Lugansk and Donetsk areas. In recent times, such facts have taken place in the city of the Red Luhansk region, in the Lysichan region of Donetsk, as well as in one of the areas of the city of Donetsk. Such actions by local authorities are unconstitutional and are deliberately aimed at violating the national rights of Ukrainians on their own land, in their own country. This is particularly cynical, considering that the constitutional rights of Ukrainians to receive education in Ukrainian and Lugansk regions, where Ukrainians make up the majority of the population, are clearly limited. For example, in Donetsk, of the 150 schools that teach, only 18 schools are taught in Ukrainian. The situation in the Red Luce of Lugansk region, where the City Council decided on December 28, 2010, to close the only Ukrainian secondary school number 15 in the city because of lack of funding. The city’s heads and deputies ignored the appeal of parents, students, and teachers not to eliminate the school. There is no answer to the parents ’ formal appeal to the Public Prosecutor’s Office in the city of Red Luch. Over a thousand Red Luch residents have signed signatures to protect the only Ukrainian school in the city. Official school appeals were addressed to the Luhansk District Council and to the President of Ukraine, but these also remain unanswered. According to parents ’ statement, Ukraine’s Number 15 School in the Red Light, which has decided to eliminate, fully meets the requirements of the educational process, has a modern computer class and educational equipment, a school of art, a museum of Afghan martial arts, a good gymnasium, and two swimming pools. According to unofficial information, there are actually two pools and a good gym, and they're the reason for the school's liquidation, because it turns out that one of the local deputies is planning to put his own gym and his own rest sauna there. And that's what's causing the school to be eliminated. "Our Ukraine" requires President Yanukovic, Prime Minister Azarov to cancel all decisions of local officials to close Ukrainian schools in Donetsk, Lugansk and other regions of the country, where the number of Ukrainian educational institutions is still small and does not meet the real needs of Ukrainians. We're demanding the release of the head of the Red Luck City Education Authority and other officials of the Ministry of Education at the regional and state level who are responsible for these anti-constitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u201	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u202	The decision to close Ukrainian schools. We call on the entire Ukrainian public and the country’s political forces to support our demands and to become together in these specific matters. We're sending a parliamentary inquiry and preparing a parliamentary statement on that matter. And we are personally addressing the leadership of the state, and we state that while there is a person in the office of the Minister of Education, a Tobacco who is foreign to all Ukrainians and who is consciously engaged in the destruction of Ukrainian education and the national spirit in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u203	Thank you. I'd like to invite Peter Cybenk, a faction of Communists. He'll be followed by Valentin Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u204	Faction of the Ukrainian Company, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The first anniversary of the coming to power of the new political team, a new political team that declared the construction of a qualitatively new principle of another Ukraine as a goal. I would very much like to believe that this sacred goal will be realized, but so far the realities are not so optimistic. Here's an example. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine registered in the bill registration sector a draft Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Enforcement of Judgments. Now I want to warn those citizens who, having heard such a beautiful name, have been thrilled. I mean those citizens of the so - called tax categories who were forced to have relations with the state regarding the exercise of the right to benefit in court. Do not rejoice, for by this beautiful name, behind this bright package another subjugation of power in relation to its disadvantaged citizens. The essence of the bill is that the Kabdin proposes from all laws, from all the legislative bases, to remove all the specific tax rules by passing on the right to save or eliminate the benefits, their size, the periodicity of granting exclusively to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This applies to a number of laws, such as the War veterans' status and guarantees of social protection, the Social Protection of Children of War Act, and, in fact, all laws where there is at least a small amount of aid. In other words, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine set a course for the destruction of the social benefits system and, along with it, the veterans for whom it was a sort of lifesaving circle. Veterans feared replacing social benefits with inadequate money, but the authorities decided to act in a different, more radical way -- simply eliminate legislation on benefits. So to make it clear to the veterans what this is all about, here's what I'm going to explain on a particular example. For example, Ukraine's "On the Status of War Veterans and Guarantees of Their Social Protection" bill provides for annual cash payments by Victory Day. The law now stipulates that its size varies depending on the category of war veterans from 3 to 10 minimum pensions. Although it actually pays less. After this law has been passed, all these figures will be thrown into the trash, and then Kabmin will have. He'll be able to pay as much as he wants, and that'll be all. [[at least one bracelet]] And this lawlessness will become the law, and it will appeal to nothing. Once again, we're on course for the destruction of the aid system. There you go. this is the construction of a new Ukraine. Here is the honor, such respect, such gratitude from the authorities to the veterans of the work, then to the blood of which all things are created on this earth. The faction of the Ukrainian Company and the Council of Veterans’ Organizations strongly protest this barbaric anti-veteran project and declares its readiness to fight its acceptance by all means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u205	I'd like to invite Valentina Zubov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Sergey Shevchuk will follow him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u206	Valentin Zubov, National Labour Union of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, respected by our constituents, we have talked about, talked about and talked about the need to combat corruption in this room. I have the impression that the more we talk about it, the more corruption paralyzes our society. What am I trying to say? A month and a half ago, I spoke in this room about the phenomenal actions of the chief medical doctor of the sixth Simferopol hospital of emergency care in the city of Simferopol how he continues to actively privatize this clinic. But most interestingly, Mr. Ivashchenko has long been head of the town of Simferopol. And there's a city head on June 21st. Last year, Mr. Babenko appointed him head of the sixth hospital. On the same day, he appoints his son as the head of the hospital. At the same time, the wife of the head of the Humanitarian Department, who heads the business structure, enters the territory of the sixth emergency clinical hospital and the gradual privatization of the city hospital begins and the most important trauma department is being destroyed. The Crimea Government is doing its best to turn the Crimea into a tourist Mecca, but we are all well aware that the more people on the peninsula, the more traumatisms there will be, and that means that today we need to prepare not only to destroy this service but to strengthen it fully. On my request, I received a lot of different notes on what was going on there to optimize hospital beds, etc. etc. But I understand that the request of the people's MP, who accuses Mr. Ivashchenk of anti-State activity for our officials, is not an order. That is why I want my statement today, Nikolai Vladimirovic, formed as a deputy request to the Attorney General, to be repeated, to a generation. The Prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is required. Demanding that a criminal case for abuse of office and promotion of corruption in the health system be brought against the former town of Babenko, and I believe that Mr. Yvashchenko, father and son, must be immediately released from their posts. Only then will people believe us. And I've already received the phone calls of those people who started this process by asking me to get them fired. Therefore, those who have been fired should be reinstated immediately at work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u207	Thank you. Please prepare appropriate parliamentary requests. I invite you to say Sergey Shevchuk, “BUT – Fatherland” faction. He will be followed by Vladimir Josephovich Matthew, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u208	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, the third or fourth talk of the national MPs on health, medicine, medicine, and reduction of medical positions. And so I would like to say to you, Your Honor, that perhaps I will tell you the news: on January 1, 2011, "successfully" in quotes, the first phase of President Yanukovich's announced reform of medical care was completed. The one who has not noticed any changes is to blame, because the plans of the President's Administration, as set out in the 2010-2014 Ukrainian Economic Reform Programme, are indeed enormous, and those who do not feel them suffer from social insensitiveness. So the first stage of medical reform was over. What did he mean in the past? First, the adoption of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of Health Legislation. That's what the Administration says. There's no such law, there's a basis for legislation, but obviously the President's Administration doesn't read the laws, they're obviously just going to write as in a known anecdotes. Second, the adoption of a new law on health-care facilities for the population. So far, he's not even registered. Thirdly, the changes to the Ukrainian Budget Code, which foresees, quote, “a shift from the budgetary financing of municipal and national treatment and prevention based on a cost-effective basis to the contractual form. What this means is that no one knows. And in the first phase of the reform, there were to be, quote, independent agencies, centres for assessing compliance with the licensing requirements of medical institutions. Answer who knows where they are, how many they have been created. I mean, if you don't want to talk about it, this reform is an empty sound. The first phase of successful reform ended. The minister of health was released, who was charged with leading the group and carrying out such a reform. This is true of concern for the health of the people, of concern for health care in Ukraine. Instead, claims are made to the previous government, particularly with regard to sanitary vehicles. I'll just remind you, Your Honor, a thousand cars are working today. The price of each car is 12.5 thousand euros, much lower than the market price. The government of Azarov spent about $10 million on auditing the activities of the previous government alone. Dear citizens of Ukraine, 10 million are 500 new ambulances. So in those areas, in ambulances, in hospitals where there's no car transport, you know, you could have gotten it if the Azarov government hadn't spent $10 million on an American firm completely inappropriate for an audit of the previous government. They said Greeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u209	Thank you. I invite Vladimir Josephovich Matthews, a faction of Communists. It will be followed by Vasile Derevljany, a faction of "BUT is the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u210	Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request. And the bottom line is this. The Economic Reform Programme 2010-2014, which was declared by the President of Ukraine, established the principle of the predictability of State agricultural policy and guaranteed the State's non-interference in the regulation of agricultural prices and the absence of restrictions on exports. The prohibition of discrimination against the rights of agricultural owners and the demand for deregulation of the market are also enshrined at the legislative level. For example, article 14 of the Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine prohibits the restriction of the legitimate rights of agricultural owners to freely dispose of agricultural products and the imposition of any administrative quantitative or qualitative restrictions on the free movement of agricultural products, including exports. However, contrary to the law, the Cabinet of Ministers ruled in the fourth. A quota and export licensing regime for basic grains was introduced in 2010. [[No. 938]] The quotas for grain exports are now being allocated by hand, not transparently, on a corrupt basis. In January, for example, officials had artificially refused to allow a large proportion of the main exporters to participate in the distribution of export quotas, preferring to give little-known companies of unknown origin. About half of the export quotas were obtained by Hlebinvestbud, which has neither the experience of trade in grain nor the production capacity for its cultivation, storage and export, nor the volume of grain. Quotas were not allowed to be allocated to exporters shipping grains through the Nikolai Transport Node, including the Nikolai Farm Nebulon, a national investor, producer and exporter up to 20 per cent of the grain in the State. Thus, the principles of transparency of public bodies and the prevention of corruption declared by the President and the Government, which should be carried out by officials, have been violated. The consequences of the civil liberties are such, spring producers will have to dispose of the grain, suffer losses, and Nebulon will immediately freeze Ukraine's important investment project to revive the Ukrainian fleet and Dnepra, and South Bug as major transport arteries. Thousands of builders and a multi-thousand labour force remain unemployed, the only one still working at the Wadan Yards Ocean Shipyard. The need to prevent corruption in quota allocations was also addressed at the round table of the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Monetary Fund, the Investment Centre and the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on 27 January. In March 2011, there will be a meeting of the Council of the Regions at the President of Ukraine on the development of the export capacity of the grain market and the food security of our country. In any case, it would be the State's duty to stop the evil practice of distribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u211	Thank you. One sentence, if possible, because colleagues are waiting, faster.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u212	The Attorney-General's Office will review the legality of the quota for grain traders, including Hlebinvestbud, and the actual availability of declared quantities of grain for export, as well as the reasons why other grain companies were not allowed to participate in the distribution of exports.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u213	Thank you. Please prepare appropriate queries. I invite Vasile Derevlány, the “BOUT – Fatherland” faction, followed by Sergey Hrapov, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u214	Basil Derevljany, Faction “BUT – Fatherland”. Honourable Ukrainians, as directed by the Ukrainian Attorney General’s Office a few months ago throughout Ukraine and in Ternopilland in particular, began terrorizing and persecuting rural and rural heads, chief hospital doctors in charge of the infirmary, drivers of medical cars with political implications. These people were summoned to the D.A.'s office to explain how they got an Opel for a rural infirmary or hospital and who handed over the car and threatened all criminal matters. It's a very simple answer. Today, the anti-Ukrainian authorities of Yanuković are panickingly afraid of the leader of the opposition and the Party of the Fatherland of Yulia Timoshenko. Because of its own penal authority, the Attorney General’s Office, the governing regime, has created a new myth that the government of Timoshenko has purchased the wrong cars for rural medicine. I would like to ask Prime Minister Azarov, Attorney General of Pshonka, whether you were interested in transporting rural medicine. And I was interested, and I want you to know, that some of the medical facilities had transportation that was over 20 years old and that was more about repairs than I was doing, and these are old giguli cars, Nivi, Moscow, Taurus and other Soviet vehicles. Most rural hospitals had no transportation at all. This work, done by Julia Timoshenko in the short time of her premiere in support of rural medicine, is a demonstration of how important it is to care for the health of a simple Ukrainian citizen living in a village far away from the district center. Today, the importance of the 45 Opel vehicles received in the Ternopil area is explained by the fact that the hospitals and hospitals that received them serve more than a hundred settlements, with more than 100,000 rural residents. According to doctors at the infirmary and hospitals, the time to go to the hospital has accelerated to half an hour. I don't think it's going to be a problem for officials, for the medical community to gather information and publish data on how many people were saved in time for medical care, precisely by using these cars. So, what is the wine of the village heads and the chief doctors of hospitals and the leading ambulances, the national deputies and the ex-premier of Ukraine, Timoshenko? Unless they care for the health, life, and health of the Ukrainian nation and instill faith in the Ukrainian village to live and prosper. And it was Julius Timoshenko who gave them this faith by standing at the head of the Ukrainian government. This led to political repression against the opposition of officials of Yulia Timoshenko, and cynicism culminated in a violation of the criminal case against Yulia Timoshenko for paying pensions to pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u215	Thank you. Please, you're breaking up, the others won't. I'd like to introduce you to Sergey Chrapov. He will be followed by Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u216	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! We communists have never been away from the acute social problem that has arisen in Ukraine as a result of the mass extradition of foreign exchange loans by commercial banks, to be calculated in Ukraine. As we know, we have twice introduced bills to the Supreme Council of Ukraine aimed at overcoming this scourge. But again, as we know, they weren't supported. And that's not surprising. Because of the selfish interests of large capital, which never coincided with the desperate aspirations of most peoples. But regardless of desire or unwillingness, the Supreme Ukraine did not solve the problem on its own. It concerns some five million families. All of them are at risk of bankruptcy and poverty, causing dozens of these people to commit suicide. On the basis of an analysis of the legal relationship arising from the issue of foreign currency credit for the calculation of foreign currency in Ukraine, we state that this is a deliberate fraud by the commercial banks of millions of borrowers, consumers of banking services. Millions of people have been granted loans in foreign currency, not as money, a means of payment, but as a means of exchanging it into a bracelet, like some securities. Now, borrowers are required to pay the amount of money in a bracelet that corresponds to the value of the currency just like money, i.e. they need to pay almost twice as much as they actually got in the loan. I personally found out by asking the National Bank of Ukraine whether commercial banks had the right to issue foreign exchange loans to some residents of Ukraine knowingly to calculate in that currency with other residents of Ukraine in Ukraine. It turns out that the BSI is deliberately avoiding a direct and ambiguous answer to this question. At the same time, Nazbank refused to refute the lawyer's written statement on the legislation claiming that the banks were clearly not entitled to issue currency credits for the above-mentioned purposes. Consequently, the NBU knows and has always known about the illegality of these actions by banks. Given that the problem in question is of an extremely acute social nature and its legitimate resolution is essential for the State and society, I propose that parliamentary hearings be held in this regard with the participation of all concerned: the President of Nazbank, the President of the Supreme Economic and High Specialized Courts of Ukraine in civil and criminal matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u217	I would like to invite Andrew Pavlovsky to the "BUT - "The Fatherland" faction, followed by George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u218	Dear compatriots, soon the first years of Yanukovich under government. So let's see what we have this year. Well, let's at least compare the prices of the most needed products to food. Last January, the price, for example, for the same potato was 3-3. 50, now they're asking 5 or 7 bucks a kilo for potatoes. And for the cabbage that Azarov likes, it was asked for 2.50-3 bracelets last year, now it's 6-7, and so on the whole set, which is called "for the Borstow". What about the same sad Greek? Under the government of Yulia Timoshenko she was another 6 or 7 bucks, now she's 20 or 22 and more in Kiev. And this is because since February 1, Januković's government has been increasing housing and utility tariffs by 30 percent for electricity, for hot water by 40 percent, for quarterly gas again from April 1st to 50 percent. As a result, it is estimated that every family will pay 2,000 dollars more for utilities during the year than it did last year. And that's because that's not enough power, it's now bringing to the Supreme Council a bill that actually eliminates all benefits for 16 categories of citizens, starting with Chernobyl, Afghans, war veterans, disabled people, war children, and ending with miners and militiamen. Salaries, pensions, scholarships are actually frozen this year. By 5 percent, prices rise by 10 percent. It turns out that the authorities of Yanukovic and the Party of Regions have already given us European prices and African wages and pensions. One interesting piece of help from the State: the average monthly salary in Ukraine in the past year is 25,000 dollars 239 dollars, which is $280. For comparison: in Poland the same salary per month is $1,300, in the Czech Republic is $1,460, in Lithuania is $900. As it turns out, Yanukovich has a unit of oligarchs in his power, and millions of people are impoverished. 80 percent of the UN figures last year are considered poor. The government refers to ordinary citizens as an invader to the enslaved people, a direct route to social turmoil, to Tunisia and Egypt. And let the authorities study the experience of the Presidents of Tunisia and Egypt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u219	I'd like to invite Yuri Carmazin. He will be followed by Yuri Odarchenko. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u220	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear voters and colleagues on the Supreme Council! A party of regions and a majority of them in the Supreme Council increase tax pressure for entrepreneurs, increase utility costs for pensioners, and pay low pensions. This gross and cynical denial of the legitimate social rights of millions of Ukrainian citizens has long been known to all those who live from salary to salary or from pension to pension. The current regime, which introduces these living conditions for people, is nevertheless particularly helpful in bringing billions of dollars into different offshore areas. On September 6, I registered Bill 7091 on the denunciation of the agreement between the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property. Regrettably, on February 1, 2011, following the faction's initiative, most of the project is not included in the agenda. On November 24, I asked President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine about the need to cancel the government's order of February 1, 2006 that the Republic of Panama, the Republic of Cyprus, should be excluded from the list of offshore zones, and that the need to reduce the flow of capital from Ukraine should be included in the list of other offshoring zones. And at the same time, including this reduction in tax burden on Ukrainian citizens and entrepreneurs. I demanded personal introduction to the Supreme Council of the draft law. Unfortunately, they didn't, and mine didn't want to. According to the provisions of the Agreement between the Government of the Union of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation, any income arising from the territory of Ukraine or Cyprus, including dividends, interest, royalty, income from the alienation of property, etc., which is listed from one country to another, with the exception of certain cases of taxation of natural persons and the income of permanent representations. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I am now addressing President Yanukovic of Ukraine and Prime Minister Azarov on the need to bring Cyprus and Panama to the list of offshores, and I am also addressing the factions of the Supreme Council: Efraemova, Simonenka, Sharov, Kirilenko, Martinique on the need to support the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 7091 on the denunciation of the agreement between the Government of the Union of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus. I'm underlining that with the money. The former President of the Bundesbank has established an offshore zone rating at the levels of their reliability, in which countries are not only absent from the list of offshore zones approved by the Government of Ukraine. This is also a separate administrative unit of the United Kingdom of Great Britain, the Nordic island of Sark, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Montenegro, the states of Delover and Oregon, Panama, Guatemala, Costa Rica, Uruguay, Chile, Brunei, Dubai, Lebanon. Let's finance Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u221	I'd like to invite Yuri Odarchenka to join us, the "BOUT"- "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u222	Dear colleagues! Today we've invited the government to look into how he sees developments in the residential sphere. Today we see that there is a rapid rise in tariffs for all kinds of services, for electricity, for gas. And the hall, and all of Ukraine wanted to hear, what would the government do, how would it affect these phenomena? And we got a completely comprehensive answer, which is unfortunately very pessimistic. Today, the government is taking serious measures that will push, the goal of which is to put pressure on the population. A serious pennies technique has been introduced. Today, foam does not set a limit. If this foam was previously in the old normative documents, it was only about the size of the debt. Today, it can reach infinity, that is, to the value of an apartment. This means that people can move out of these apartments. We didn't listen to how we can regulate, how we can influence the price of gas. All respectable friends remember Janukovic’s assurance when he signed the Harkowi treaties that he had decided on the basis of the Crimea, the price of gas would not increase for the population. That was not justified. It was an open lie. And we see that the government now wants to solve its problems, not on account of these legal structures, metal, metallurgical and chemical factories that its one party is working on, but at the expense of the population. Today, Janukovic says nothing about the gas of his own production, and we all know that it is produced at 20 billion cubic meters. This is, I mean, all the needs of the population are being overcome and there is in the government, and the President has all the weights to minimize the loss of the population. Dear friends, gas tariffs are rising. Where is the money going? This was a question for all of us. What are the innovations and investments that the price of gas is going to go up? And we can see the answer in the budget: today, the AMX Reform Programme is being allocated 7 million from the special fund, from the general fund, 100 million from the special fund. I mean, on the roofs of houses, on the counters, on the drowning, on the gas count, nothing stands out. All this money is probably going to compensate Rosukreenergo for the five billion cubic gas that the brutal government is trying to take away today. We don't see the world at the end of the tunnel, but we see the only desire of the government and factions of the Party of Regions to rob the population and close the holes at the expense of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u223	We're going to finish an hour of different. Oleg Light, please be brief and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u224	Dear citizens, today the world is in a phase of turbulence that has emerged as a response to the global economic and financial crisis. The fight against the crisis has led to a massive attack on democratic rights and civil liberties. Mass anti-government interventions in Algeria, Tunisia, Yemen and Egypt are direct responses to such restrictions. As a responsible Ukrainian politician, I would like to make the following statement. If the authorities in Ukraine do not stop in their desire and continue to break everyone on their way to establishing total control of society; if the authorities persecute political opponents, small business representatives, students, eventually those in Donetsk or Odessa who communicate in Ukrainian, the scenarios of the Arab world will become a reality for us all. Surrender! So it won't be too late. World events also show that the main threat to countries with unstable democracies is within the country. So my next initiative, convinced, can effectively contribute to the cleansing of political life, the arrival of a new generation of political class. It is the publication at the end of 2010 of official documents by the U.S. Department of State. The leaders of many nations of the world, including Ukraine, have recognized the birth of completely new conditions for the creation of great politics. And double standards can no longer be one of its successful methods, because the real motivations that politicians govern become the acquisition of the public. The time is coming for politicians without a second floor, who, apart from the scale of national thinking, have strong ideological beliefs and responsibilities for national interests. Early this year, I started the project "Ukraine in WikiLeaks," "Policy without Griffus". Its essence is to publish in Ukrainian a series of books with a selection of documents published on the portal that refer to Ukraine. Work on the first book is in the final stage and a presentation is being prepared. These documents are our mirror, they expose double standards and betrayal, the main historical flaws of past and modern Ukrainian politics. Because those in Ukraine today who talk a lot about morality actually do immoral things. And those who scream about patriotism are actually trading national interests in their state. This is evidence of WikiLeaks. The goal of my project is to introduce new standards in Ukrainian politics without betrayal, without moral quility, without inferiority complexes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-04-m0.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that next week the national deputies are working on committees, commissions, factions. On Wednesday, February 9, at 3 p.m., Parliamentary hearings will be held in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the health and rest of children and young people. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, February 15, at 10 a.m., and the day before Monday, at 11 a.m., there will be a meeting of the Ukrainian Conciliation Council. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck.
