ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:52]] Cards were registered in the 389 members of the National Assembly Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to consider a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the protection of rights of landowners transferred to a lease for agricultural purposes]] [[Registration number 6290]] At the same time, the author of a bill by national deputy Elina Shishkina is asked to postpone the bill to the next plenary week on Tuesday or Thursday. The reason is not explained. Obviously related to objective circumstances. At the same time, respectable colleagues have two approaches. First. If there is an appeal, support or simply make a decision to support the committee’s conclusion that the bill should be adopted as a basis. And science and expertise also holds that position, so they're the only ones in this approach. What are we going to do? We're putting it off? Do we have the votes to make the decision as a basis? I realized that I had to postpone. Is there no objection? Let's put it down. And I'm asking the secretariat to make proposals for the next plenary week to anticipate this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a proposal for a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Graduation, Gardening and Harming. [[about the size of the collection rate]] [[Registration number 7270]] The proposal here is an urgent one, under a reduced procedure to deal with the issue. What? One minute now, Smitsch, the drafter of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to ask because today I have communicated with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food, to transfer this bill to the next plenary session, and I ask for your support. There are some clarifications where information should be provided to the national deputies regarding the use of funds and the efficiency of their use today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u3	Is there a denial? None. We're putting off for the next plenary week to reconcile positions with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code is pending. [[on the identification of housing and general real estate]] [[Registration number 8203]] The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zabarsky Vladislav Valeriyovich, and co-rapporteur is the deputy head of the Serbian Committee Yuri Sergiyyovich. In summary, I'm putting this motion to the vote, please vote. [[16:05:10]] For 193 Decision taken. Vladislav Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u4	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Code of Housing is proposed. [[on the identification of the housing and general area of the residential property]] [[Registration number 8203 from March 4, 2011]] This bill was introduced by me in co-authorship with my colleague Zarubinski and Serbian. In particular, the bill proposes to supplement article 6 of the Housing Code with parts 2, 3 and 4 and to determine that the housing area of the residential property is defined as the total area of the living rooms, the total area of the residential property is defined as the total area of the living rooms and the auxiliary facilities, including boats, balconies, verandas, and terraces. The project also states that the residential area of the residential property does not refer to the area of the facilities designed for the hygiene or household needs of citizens, namely, the bathroom, the bathroom, the bathroom, the shower, the laundry, the kitchen, the chamber, the living room, the interior living room, the corridor, the built - in closet, and so forth. On the basis of the need for the adoption of an act, it is necessary to note that, to date, the definition of housing and the general scope of the residential property is contained in several legally binding acts and the Ukrainian DBN, the Ukrainian Statistical Committee's orders to approve instructions on the completion of the form of State statistical observation, the order of transfer of apartments, houses and so forth. I believe that the adoption of the bill will avoid this uncertainty and will have a positive effect, any expenditure of the state budget due to the adoption of this bill is not foreseen. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u5	Thank you. Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin, deputy chairman of the committee Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, the committee has reviewed and supported this bill. What are the benefits in this regard? First. Still, we now have many legislative acts, including the Tax Code, which defines taxation as an object of taxation, taxation of housing. To do that, we need to make it clear what the housing area is. All the other indicators and names taken from DBN, which is the year after year, I won't. The committee supports the first reading and still expresses its point of view. There's a note by the Science and Technology Administration that you don't have to write housing objects down, because the Housing Code contains a completely different formulation. On second reading, I think we should discuss this question, for if we have already recorded the Tax Code as an object of housing, it seems to me that it is necessary to leave the same exact wording. That's the first one. The other one. Some of our colleagues are concerned that now that this law has been passed on the sale of apartments, the ratio for balconies and boats will not apply, you know, the lower coefficient of 0.3; 0.5; 0.7. But this is not the subject of this law, this is the subject of DBN. So this question is not going to be negative or negative for making decisions in the housing area. The committee therefore recommends that we take the basis and work on the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u7	Yes, if you would like to share in the discussion, please sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next item is Smitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u8	Anatoly Matvienka's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u9	Microphone, Anatoly Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u10	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I think that with real estate at all, we need to carry out an entire revolution and figure out how in the entire civilized world, that real estate tax is a local tax. And to understand that this is the main coming to local budgets around the world. What kind of road are we on? We now have a definition, really, in the Tax Code about the so-called housing area, and we're trying to put under the residential area now just where the person is there, he's resting. That's the wrong logic. There is no such logic anywhere in the world. We have to understand, if there's a housing house, this is the square meters on which taxes are to be counted accordingly. And as they use those square meters, they already have a problem with the host. Otherwise we're going to have two square meters of housing, and I'm deliberately going to go up 150 to 200 square meters, so called, not housing. And we're never going to have these taxes from the rich. That's why I think it's nothing more than a bear service. We should not support this law and consider that if there is a residential house, this residential house should be taxed. And the way it's used, that's the problem with the host. Otherwise, once again, we don't do anything else like we don't collect taxes from the rich, and then we don't have the ability to support the poor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u11	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I do not agree with the point of view of my colleague, Matthew, who just said that this cannot be done. Not only do we need to correct the error recorded in the Tax Code. Because so many people who have worked their whole lives have finally been able to build their own house after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Their children grew up and went to work abroad, and these parents, their grandparents, stayed in this house with a pension insurance of 800, or more, plus-minus, bracelets, can't pay taxes. Then the question arises, and what about him? Sell a house and go to an elderly house when we don't have one, or how do they do it? And this same category of people needs to be taken care of. And I'm not a supporter because we have to base our income on a local, or government budget on taxes. You have to work in such a way that, not by taxes on citizens, but by developed economies, you have to create jobs. To create an extra cost to the product, to convert our resources into the final product, and thus to ensure that the budget is filled, not by the coming of such costs. I support this norm, and it must be accepted long ago, including by referring to the code we have adopted. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u13	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u14	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, I am one of the authors of this bill, and believe me, I say this for those who have obviously misread it, there is no reference to taxes here. It doesn't even have the word "tax." The point here is that these instructions that can change every day should be legalized. Because they relate to a very serious civil relationship, a residential relationship. But if you've already touched on this issue, then, dear colleagues, I think that people who practice stately and, I take it, sufficiently liberal economic concept or content should understand that people should be allowed to build. Because when people build and the more they build, the more the economy works. Because people pay taxes once, when they get paid, they have income. The second time is when they buy building materials. For the third time, when they're paying the hell out of it, they know what only a person who wants to build a house is paying for it. And here they help this man to sell his own buildings, his own apartments, and so on. It's not the essence of economic development, it's about stimulating people to work. I don't say anymore, there's some building specialists here, and you know very well that we need to support the building industry. A person’s desire for life should be maintained in a normal and dignified manner, not all of them should be lowered to the level of the poor. On the contrary, people need to become rich and rich. But it's not a subject, Your Honor, I've had to respond to it, I'm not the subject of this bill. The bill is absolutely right in terms of those who are dealing with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u15	Yes. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office concludes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code. [[on the identification of housing and general real estate]] Please vote. [[16:16:00]] For-300 Decision taken. I suggest your attention, honourable national MPs, the draft Act amending article 76 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, and the Rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Zarubinsky. [[on the establishment of compulsory public work for persons released from trial]] [[Registration number 6160]] The focal point is the head of Vladimir Moisik's subcommittee. I would like to put the motion to a vote on the issue of reduced procedure. [[16:16:45.]] For 213 Decision taken. The reporter is Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u16	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u17	Oleg Zarubinski, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u18	The faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the idea of involving people on probation is not new from the point of view of the experience of other nations. This is the idea that is proposed in the bill's titled head of parliament. This practice is applied in the criminal legislation of France, Sweden, Denmark and many other countries, which are, well, all recognized in comparison, but are exemplary in the context of comparison with the Ukrainian penitentiary system. For example, in Danish criminal law, a probationary period, a maximum term of 2 years, ends when the convicted person has committed public service obligations. Criminal legislation, in pursuit of human and educational goals, provides an opportunity for individual categories of convicted persons not to be fully punished for the crimes they have committed. In such cases, the release from trial or the so - called conditional sentence may be applied to those guilty of minor crimes. The bill suggests that this conditional sentence, and in fact the deprivation of responsibility, because it continues exactly the same life as before, was complemented by the fact that a certain number of public works were to be implemented. He has committed an offence, he has committed a crime, let alone minor crimes, but why should society grant this wrongdoer only a conditional term? Why not work for this society? It's a very small term. Five days an hour. For five days of punishment, one hour of community service. But, dear colleagues, I know the position of scientific expertise, I know the position of many of you. It is not clear in support of this bill. And that's why I agree with the idea of scientific expertise.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u20	I agree with the scientific expertise that this bill can be finalized. I am prepared to work on it as a subject of the legislative initiative, taking into account certain suggestions and negative assessments of my colleagues. Please vote in favour, this is the conclusion of the committee, to send me as the subject of the legislative initiative, for further work. I'll make it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u21	Thank you. Yuri Prokopchuk of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u22	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! In article 76 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the author proposes, among the duties that the court imposes on a person who is exempt from punishment with a trial, to establish public works for that person under the conditions laid down in articles 56, 100 of the Criminal Code and no less than one hour each full five days of interrogation. After reviewing the bill, the committee noted that its adoption created a situation in which the court frees the convicted person from actual punishment and immediately appoints new, namely, public works. Which, by the way, in article 51, paragraph 4, parts of the first article 52 and article 56 of the Criminal Code are the main types of punishment. The project also does not take into account the existence of a separate type of exemption from the trial provided for in article 79 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Exemption from the punishment of pregnant women and women who have children under the age of 7. It is not clear, then, whether they will distribute a bill on the obligation to impose public service penalties on a specified category of convicted persons. There are also misunderstandings offered by the author of the penalty period, which he calls the size of at least one hour for every full five days of the exam period, which is also inconsistent with the applicable legislation. In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to reject it. So to leave the author to work on this bill, which also has some kind of correctness, there is a proposal from the committee to send the bill for further work. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's put forward a proposal that the author of the bill and supported by the committee is one thing: to get the subject of the legislative initiative back to work on the bill. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[16:22:04]] For 288 Decision taken. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 122 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. [[on the realization of the right to a pension of persons in places of deprivation of liberty]] Dear colleagues, under the reduced procedure, there is a request to consider the matter. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[16:22:40]] For 217 Decision taken. Rapporteur of the Ukrainian National Deputy Uljana Mikolayevna Mistpan, co-reporter of the Committee – Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Will Yuri Prokopchuk be there? Yuri Prokopchuk. Yes, please, Ulyana Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The bill has been drafted to resolve the issue of the realization of the right to a pension to persons who have lost their jobs or who have reached retirement age during the period of the sentence. Today, there are some inconsistencies or double standards in existing legislation. According to article 122 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code, persons who have acquired the right to a pension during their stay in places of deprivation can benefit from such a right only after their release. At the same time, persons who have acquired the right to a pension to be deprived of their will are entitled to a pension in accordance with the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act. This means that 75 percent of the pension is counted as a holding institution, and 25 percent is counted as a personal account of the sentenced person. That is, those who have reached the retirement age and those who have reached that age in places of deprivation are in different legal categories, which is a violation of the Constitution. The defendants retain the status of Ukrainian citizens, and therefore they exercise appropriate rights, taking into account the limitations that only result from the judgment of the court. The bill provides for amendments to article 122 of the Criminal Procedure Code, providing that persons who have acquired pension rights during their stay in places of deprivation of liberty are assigned and paid on general grounds and under the Ukrainian Law on National Compulsory Pension Insurance. I'm just saying that language only works.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u26	only those persons who are already in need of an insurance job at the time of gaining their pension, that is, who earned it before they got to the places where they were deprived of their will. I would like to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u27	Thank you, too. Yuri Prokopchuk of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u28	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, the changes proposed by the project are due to the following. Yes, according to article 122 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code, persons who have acquired the right to a pension during their stay in places of deprivation of liberty can exercise their right to retirement only after being released from their places of deprivation of liberty. That is, according to existing legislation, a person who is in need of work and who is deprived of his or her liberty at an early age is also deprived of his or her pension. The project also proposes working time for convicts, a period of imprisonment in the form of deprivation of liberty to enroll in employment for the purpose of assigning a work pension, provided that they pay insurance contributions to the Ukrainian Pension Fund in order and size provided for by legislation. That is, the bill does not remove the position of article 122 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code on the counting of working time at places of deprivation of liberty to general employment in the assignment of a work pension, provided that a person is freed from insurance contributions to the Pension Fund during this work. In doing so, the determination of the pension for those in prison while in prison is not carried out until the person is released from prison. Thus, it is stated in the explanatory note to Project 6382 that its purpose of providing pension for convicted persons who have been entitled to a pension during their stay in places of deprivation of liberty is not materialized in the bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and the Ministry of Justice do not support the bill, which is why in preparing the draft for second reading, if any, in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules, is not possible to include additional provisions in the bill which were not available during the first reading of the draft. Given the absence of legislative proposals in the text that would provide for amendments to the above-mentioned legislative acts governing the law of Ukraine. insurance, including specifics for the payment of insurance contributions to the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u29	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u30	The committee made a proposal to recommend the Supreme Council as a result of the first reading review of the draft law to return its subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Well, please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. National MP Shishkina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u32	Please hand over the mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u33	Mishchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, the author raised a very big problem regarding the pension provision of convicted persons. I'll explain how this problem exists today. If we take a question, when does the person before he leaves? She should be punished, but she already has a pension, whether by age or disability or by age, she doesn't have the right to receive that pension, she only gets that pension once she's served the sentence. And this tells us that we are violating the constitutional principle that a person for a criminal offence is carrying an additional type of punishment -- non-retirement, even though he deserves it, because the standards of today's legislation are being doubled. And that's why the question for today is, in fact, there are a lot of letters and statements about a person being deprived of that right for nothing. That's why I'm proposing. What the Science-Expert Authority wrote said was right. Who should assign this pension, just one question, if you look. Science-expert management. Pension fund. To write in this article -- the Pension Fund assigns this pension, and that's all. You don't even have to break the 116th article of the Rules. So that's the way the question is solved. If Parliament does not have the will to solve this problem, there are no votes, I would at least ask that it be returned for further work so that the author can now pass this bill so that we don't fail it, and only in the next session can we submit it. Because either in the first or otherwise, this problem is solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u35	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, I've been speaking with Sergio Mishchenka. I couldn't agree more than that. Such a problem really does happen. I mean, the legislative proposal is completely understood, and it's probably justified or reasoned, but according to the norm it's written, it's described this procedure that the law will never be able to become. I'll explain briefly. Ukraine has five types of pensions: seniority, the loss of a breadwinner, disability, social and age. In this case, it is unclear in the bill what kind of pension is involved and how this pension will be assigned. This was already about the observation made by the Chief Research Administration regarding the Pension Fund. It's just that this bill isn't written under those changes, and it's not before those legislative acts. And if it had been done properly, then it would certainly have worked. I'm making an offer. Of course, that is not the way we can accept it, for we will not change anything completely until the second reading there. I'm proposing, and it would be nice if on the committee the bill's authors suggested that they remove, call off their drafts, and write a rule in line with existing, valid pension legislation, then that would be normal. And so, the changes that only go to the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code, they will not be able to fully meet the tasks that the author of this bill has put before them. So this bill would have been appropriate, it would have been good if the author had called for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to the draft law. The main scientific and expert office also argues in its conclusion that the bill needs to be redrafted. At the same time, I am the first to put a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 122 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. [[on the realization of the right to a pension of persons in places of deprivation of liberty]] Please vote. [[16:33:21]] For-97 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Registration number 6382. [[16:33:50]] For 112 The voices were not enough. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we should now consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on improving the working conditions of higher education institutions]] At the same time, the author of the bill wrote: "Please move the bill to another plenary week in connection with the need to reconcile positions with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Is there no objection? Well, then, if there's no objection, we're not voting, we're putting the bill on hold for the next plenary week. Honourable National MPs, I propose to you the draft Law amending the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law. [[on the acceleration of the provision of first-aid services in urgent and extreme situations]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Oleg Zarubinsky, co-rapporteur, Vladimir Karpuk. Taking into account your proposal to vote, this is once again a consideration of the issue of the reduced procedure. [[16:35:20]] For-198 Decision taken. Please, Oleg Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u38	Oleg Zarubinsky faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! What is the idea of this bill? The most important requirement — when medical care is provided in any situation — is an accident or an exacerbation of a serious illness — is that it is time to get it because it depends on it, and it is medical knowledge that it is not only a health condition, but also a human life. However, because of natural causes, the distance of hospitals from the sick or the affected, a difficult socio-economic situation in the country, medical assistance can arrive with considerable delay, losing operational requirements. Along with that part of the first article 37, the basics of Ukrainian legislation on health care provide that "medical workers are obliged to provide the first emergency care in case of accidents and acute diseases". [[quote]] [[end of quote]] But in practice in extreme situations, even if medical personnel are near the patient or the victim, first aid is difficult because doctors and they and potential patients may not even see each other. For these purposes, according to the traffic rules in force, it is possible to identify doctors ’ cars with a special identification mark. But do we often see this identifying mark today? And the situation is that this approach today seems to be somewhat one - sided. The doctor must make a voluntary commitment, but he does not receive any additional rights or even opportunities. As a result, under the commercialization of all services, such voluntary duties are virtually not being met, and therefore the medical car is virtually non-existent. The bill offers very simple things that will help the doctor do, the guide doctor, what he can do. And that's why I'm asking you to support this bill, he.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u39	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u40	He's totally humane. He is fully committed to helping doctors to help the victims. And mostly traffic on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u41	Vladimir Karpuk, please, regarding the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! At its February 2, this year, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health Care discussed the bill of our colleague, Oleg Aleksandrovitch Zarubinski, at number 7359, which aims to create conditions to speed up the provision of medical care in extreme and urgent cases and to improve the identification of cars operated by doctors. To this end, through the adoption of the relevant amendments to article 77, part 1, the basis of Ukrainian legislation on health care is proposed to give doctors the right to park their private cars free of charge if such cars are equipped with special license plates and stickers with contact telephones from the appropriate driver. The drafter also proposes to supplement article 37 of the Basic Health Law with the following text: “In extreme and urgent cases, the first medical aid may be provided by a medical worker who is in the city of the occurrence of such a situation.” According to the explanatory note to the bill, the existing Road Traffic Rules, article 33, provides for the possibility of identifying doctors' cars by means of a special identification mark with the word "doctor". It is noted that a car should be equipped with a special medical kit and a medical tool, according to a list established by the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health supports the bill. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the granting of additional benefits to doctors for free parking of their own cars is contrary to the ideology of the Tax Code and suggests that the bill be rejected. The committee still supports the bill. We're working on taking note of it, and we're offering to take it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u43	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, let's move on to this discussion, please sign up for this discussion. Please state the names of the people's deputies on the board. Sergey Shevchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The Faction "BUT" – "Paternity", of course, will support this bill, which relates to the granting of any, although minimal, benefits to medical workers. Of course, it would be better if instead of a free parking lot for a car, there were free ambulances for health - care workers offered earlier. However, this small benefit will also be significant. Another argument I want to make is the famous Euro-2012 event. Imagine, tens of thousands of foreign tourists, so many thousands, tens of thousands of our tourists, huge movement, and imagine whether they're going to be able to do that, let's say, an ambulance or other medical unit? Of course not. And so the attempt to extend the possibility of providing medical care to both domestic and foreign tourists, literally after a certain year, deserves attention. We would like the Ministry of Health not only to support words, but also to define a special sign that is understandable to Ukrainians, for foreign tourists, that there is a medical expert in this car and that it is obliged to use in certain situations the amount of knowledge that the State has given him to save the lives of its fellow citizens. That's why we're voting for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u45	Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then there's Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u46	Vladimir Večerko, Party of the Regions. Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine! What we are considering today is of great importance. And I am very pleased that we have finally begun to pay attention to health care and its reforms. I should have done it sooner. And not only in extreme and urgent conditions, doctors should have specialized equipment in their car, but they should start from the village, go from the village, go to the city. Today, in no rural hospital, doctors who do not even have transportation are not the same as specialized vehicles. This needs to be taken into account, and when we next listen to this bill, we need to include everything necessary to ensure that the bill survives in society. Indeed, doctors have the right to have specialized numbers to be treated in a normal manner by the GAI, people who are known to know that these vehicles in which doctors drive will be provided with urgent specialized and primary medical care. Therefore, our faction, the faction of the Party of the Regions, will vote in favour of the bill on first reading. And all the comments have to be taken into account. And I would also like to take into account what is very important for the population and doctors: we really need to go from village to town, because today there are no doctors in the villages, Vladimir Mihajlovich and respected people's deputies. There are no doctors at all! Two thousand people live in the village and no doctor. A semi-broken field obstetrics post is a tragedy for the entire population of Ukraine. That's where we have to start and go to the city, not the populists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u47	So finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u48	And to get closer to the people, according to our President, we must go to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u49	Okay. Yuri Carmazin, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense"
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u50	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! You would rather not go to the people, then you might adhere to article 49 of the Constitution, which states that it is not possible to reduce the existing boundaries of public and municipal health institutions. Period. That's what it says. And what you're doing today, I'm turning to the government, to the coalition of those in the Ministry of Health, is anti-constitutional. That's why we have to arrest him. Not keeping Lucenka in custody for the 40,000 you're giving him, and the optimization, the reduction of hospitals, that's all a criminal offense, because it's a direct violation of the requirements of article 49 of the Constitution, and it's a direct act. Therefore, as soon as you leave the authorities, expect everyone who has done so to be a criminal offender. And that's the right thing to do. I'd like to introduce them. They used to talk about medics, figures like that. During the year, the number of medical personnel in Kiev dropped by 10,000: 8,000 nurses, 1.5 thousand doctors, and 500 paramedics. In a year! What kind of family medicine are you talking about there today?Oh, my God! Who will need it? People go to other countries because you don't pay what's stipulated by law, that's what you do. As a result, respectable ones, we must adopt this law, but let us go beyond the Rules, complement it with real guarantees for medicine, not for those who are meant to do so. Excuse me, Mr. Oleg, I love you very much as an author, as an legislator, but this is very, very little. Not only is it bad today with medicine and in villages and cities, but it's not bad around here. Because that's not how they pay, because for 900 bracelets the nurse won't work, but the surgeon for 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u51	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u52	And in closing, I would ask you to accept it in the first reading and to assign a committee to work out, going beyond 116 of the Rules, to write it that way, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Otherwise, all health care will be gone, no doctors will be gone, no one will be in this country, everyone will be gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u53	Yes, the honourable people's deputies, the discussion is over. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on this proposal, namely, the adoption of the draft Law amending Ukraine's Health Law. [[on the acceleration of the provision of first-aid services in urgent and extreme situations]] [[Registration number 7359]] Please vote. [[16:47:48]] For 311 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on State support for charitable activities. The proposal to consider this issue by a simplified procedure. Please vote. What else do we have? [[16:48:26]] For 205 Dear colleagues, we have a bill on this subject -- 6024, 6343. Let's do it this way: the reports separately, and then the committee head's report will do it on both bills, that is, four minutes. And then we're going to burn them up and we're going to vote separately. No objections? Thank you. Grigory Yudkomovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u54	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, is being brought to your attention by Bill 6024 of 1.02.2010. As you can see, this bill has been in place for over a year and needs to be defined by the Supreme Council. The purpose and purpose of the project is to adopt this law. The purpose of this law is to provide real state support for charitable activities in Ukraine. The task of the bill is to establish specific forms of State support for charity, charitable activities. The definition of individual Metzenite benefactors with honorary titles, national awards and more. Tax benefits to be paid to charity and charitable organizations for the relief provided. Why did I decide to ask this question in such a way as to give these benefits and to the party that gives it to the party that gets it? Because you know, unfortunately, there are a lot of people in our country who really need charity. And fortunately, there is part of our successful businessmen today who provide this help. And in order to somehow legitimize that, more clearly, I decided to make specific changes to existing legislation. Because, on the one hand, the state has to support, advertise and stimulate, and show that these citizens are really part of their money or part of their property, or other foods, including food, can pass on to those who need it directly and have an urgent need for life. This is also true of medical matters. This is true of educational programs. This is true of others, many, many things need help today. Sadly, the State has not always been able to satisfy or provide these people who need it. So I certainly know earlier that this bill will not be supported, but at the same time I point out that the needs of this law are, are relevant. And that kind of law, where the state supports those on the one hand, and it stimulates and celebrates those who provide charity and those who receive it. In many countries these standards are, they are, laws, they work and are successfully implemented. The support of this law will allow for greater publicity, greater involvement of those who can and want to help those people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u55	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u56	You, MPs, support the bill in the first reading. And if this bill is supported, you can also participate in the second reading, so to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u57	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Julia Volodymyrovna Ljovczyn, please. We decided that now there are two reports, then the committee head, and we will vote separately, because they are of the same, on the same subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u58	On April 26, 2010, I and the deputies of Feldman, Zarubinski, were registered a new draft of the Ukrainian Law on Charity and Charity Organizations. The bill was designed with the involvement of the public at large and supported by the most of us by the charitable funds of Ukraine. The aim of the bill is to create favourable conditions for the formation and operation of charities, the protection of the rights of benefactors, and the acquisition of charitable aid. In the field of charity, there are now the following problems. First, the duration of registration of a charity in Ukraine is at least 2 months, on average 15 times the duration of registration of an enterprise. Secondly, the activities of charities are artificially limited by territorial status. Local charitable organizations are forbidden to provide, for example, social services to those affected by natural disasters in other areas. Thirdly, charities are obliged to require even victims, explosions or floods that have lost documents, their identification codes for transfers or bank accounts. In general, I can say that there are a lot of restrictions, a lot of nonsense in this area of legislation. It is legal to ensure effective control over the purpose of the use of charitable aid and the protection of the rights of the benefactors. This contributes to such a dangerous phenomenon as the use of charitable contributions to launder money, substitutive charity, or fraud in public collection of medical contributions, and so forth. With a view to solving these and other problems, the bill proposes to forgive the registration of the management of charities, to increase the control of the benefactor at the expense of money and property transferred to charity, and to introduce new tools to carry out charitable activities both by citizens and by legal persons. It's about charity waiters.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u59	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u60	There have been a number of comments to the bill, but I think they can be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. So I ask my honourable colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u61	Thank you. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Please, the committee's decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! I just literally came from a beautiful sunset. In the theater of John Frank’s name, prizes were awarded to the winners of the worldwide competition in the Ukrainian language of Peter Yatzik, for which you did not, by the way, vote to celebrate his Jubilee. The point is that in fact the authorities refused to hold this fine competition today. And he was supported by the League of Ukrainian Mecensors, headed by the Director General of the Darnicka Pharmaceuticals Factory, as well as the Yulia Timoshenko Block and all the children are awarded bonuses. As a result, the need for charity in Ukraine has matured long ago, and it has even matured. I want to say that the actual existence of charitable activity, the encouragement of the State in various ways, these ways are many, that is to say, a sign of the country's civilization. Because of this, I would like to thank Gregory Smythew, and therefore I call the group of several of our national deputies Lvikovn, Novikov, Feldman, Zarubinsky and Orobec, their names that covered these two important topics and very important ones. What is the difference between two bills? They're actually on the same subject. Because I don't even ask questions, so the committee doesn't ask questions about one of them, let's say, film them because they're one dark. They're both, in their own way, interesting. But to me and our committee, the Smith Bill seems more democratic, it goes all the way down there. That is, he reaches out to every person who is capable of, say, providing this very charitable aid, even if it is not very large, he is also encouraged by the country. And I'm convinced that this allows us to make a civilized society of ours, then to engage in charitable activities exclusively of all. The bill of the collective of authors that I called the name Lvikovna, Novikova, Feldman, Zarubinsky and Orobec, refers to such existing, as it were, humanitarian charity funds. As a result, it would be necessary for the committee to do so. I understand very well that the Ministry of Finance is also going to resist. What's more, I'll tell you, I could, let's say, draft a bill like that or me or someone from our minority, but we understand very well that you don't vote for it. Because of this, I support and am very happy that the majority have taken over, but support your own people. I want to believe that the Bill, such as the Smithsaw, is also based on the second bill from the committee's team of authors ready for this black work, along with the authors, to take some seats, and we can have a very good law on charity. It will really encourage people, organizations, to have this charitable activity, mecenity, and charity. Because of that, I thank both the authors and the teams for touching this subject, and I appeal to the ambitions of the majority, and it is your authors who have prepared these bills, and sin will not vote for you in the basic garbage bill, and from the second project we should use everything that is there. With God, let's see if you're capable of it or not. Let's go. Whether we're all capable. That's right. Said Yuri Miroshnichenko and pressed the "for" button.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. May I see the names of the national MPs? Basil Kravchuk is transferring the right to speak to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u64	Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, since two bills must be spoken of, we will begin with the first one registered. My general assessment of the national MPs who have registered these bills is positive, because we need to settle this case and support it in every way. Instead, there are serious problems with the practice of implementing these bills. What our warnings and experts about the first bill that Gregory Smith proposed. First. The benefits are very important, but today I am informing you as a person who is equally concerned with the problem of both education and physical culture and sports, and we have the Ministry of Finance developed no determination and position on how to use these benefits. For example, the new edition of the Physical Culture and Sports Act, which we have adopted, provides for the possibility of benefits for those who finance physical culture and sports, instead, this rule does not work because Minfin did not make the right decision. That's why I'm in favour of cultural, health, sports, as it were, support for the state, but you can do that if Minfin went to see this. A second position that I can't ideologically support. I think that mercenary and charitable activity shouldn't be appreciated by the state, it's if it was an internal belief, it's a world view, it's a thought. So, sorry if we still have a merit or an honorary benefactor in Ukraine, they will laugh not only in Europe but around the world. So I'm a firm opponent in some kind of state law. Now it's the second draft. He bothers me even more because I think he's doing more surgery, so-called, "great benefactors." What "great benefactors" are the people who get the most government funds because they operate at high cost and can afford to be big benefactors. What's so dangerous? Dangerous, I think, are the serious benefits that they provide, for example, for rent. If he is a great benefactor operating on millions, what benefits should he receive from renting his premises? I'm worried about the story that for international activity, for example, we can employ foreigners here. As we employ all foreigners on charitable projects, we do not know what remains of our people who work here. Well, that's the last of it. Of course, if we still create an organ of central executive power for charity, then the end of this charity. Well, you don't have to create a ministry or a committee for charity, you have to do it. So I think that there are good ideas in both of these bills, but both of these bills are not ready today to support and vote for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u66	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u67	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Lesi Orobec.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u68	Lesa the Ripper, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u69	Lesja Orobec, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Colleagues, there are people who are already worthy of honor, at least for asking for support instead of threading, for state support, for budgeting, for taking, for collecting and doing themselves, for a number of issues that unfortunately we, neither the Ministry nor other government actions can sometimes solve, are benefactors. And as much as we can do for them, it's to adopt an adequate framework law, because our legislation is still sinful to these people, especially by twisting their hands. They've got their What Mr. Mikola Tomenko said about the benefits is not in the text of the bill. I read it myself and wrote it myself. I'm going to vote in favour, at least because in article 10 there's such a novelty as the endowment, it's a scheme for financing all non-state educational institutions, medical institutions, museums, other charitable beginnings that allow for non-state income, non-state livelihoods. [[and State]] As far as I'm concerned, without having the opportunity to provide public funds, colleagues, let's give people who don't want to. They're not asking for our help, they're asking them not to interfere, let's support them. I very much ask to vote in favour of this bill, regardless of the political one. Belongs to the authors or independence from the political position of your faction for the time being. By the way, when we registered him, there were four of the five factions in the co-authors at the time, it was a year ago, colleagues. And a year ago, we're trying to get this law into the hall. Please pay attention, reconsider, and vote for him. Thank you. Every voice is important.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u70	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, the less we pedal the question of belonging to the majority or minority and depending on this vote in favour of the bill, the more people will be voted on. So if we really want the bill to be voted on, let's talk about the content of this bill. Both are positive in principle. I have no prejudice about the bill of colleague Smitush Grigori Evdokimovich, but as co-author of another bill, I would like to say a few things. It's pretty good with the whole field of charity. I don't want to talk about the meaning of this, because if there were, you know, no benefactors or patrons. In Kiev, many hospitals that were built before the 17th year would not be today, exactly like the Bessarab market and much more than Kiev is proud of today, without benefactors and mercenaries. So the fact that charity needs to be maintained regardless of the political positions and the pedaling of this issue all the time. We will support Bill 6343. It is systemic, it allows for the State to control charity, because charity is not a miniaturization of income, it is a real charity. That's why it can't be in the bill. If you don't mind, Vladimir Mikhailovich wants Carmazin very much. I told him, I told him, but he insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, I ask you not to discuss it. Because you can't, but Carmazin insists, one minute, please. But you can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u73	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, calm down! We put things together: we combined two very different laws. And you didn't say anything about it. I drew the attention of the chairman, the head of the Supreme Council, to this. And that's why I'm basically here. The first bill, Smittuha, predicts that the sums of money or the cost of assets that are listed, if they don't exceed 5 percent of the taxpayer's income, they're subtracted, they're not included in the total monthly income. This is what is found in all civilized countries. Let's support that. One. It's the Income Tax Act. It's a completely different law, it's not another edition of the Charity Act. I am in favour of the adoption of the Charity Act, which has now been reported in the new edition, but there is no mechanism in Smith. We need to make changes to the current legislation that Smith speaks. So I'm going to ask you to adopt the Charity Act, adopt the law and another Smitch, where there are changes to the current Charity Act, which introduces the notion of "state rewards" in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u74	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Mikola Tomenko, a replica. Lesya the Sparrow mentioned his last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that both bills contain benefits. I'm not saying that there's no benefits, so the benefits have to be justified. The Smith Bill provides for benefits if you voluntarily count the tax as a benefit that does not exceed 5 percent. And, in principle, the general idea is right, we just have to write how it's done. Instead, the bill, called "the authors' groups", contains a number of benefits, it provides that government authorities and local self-government will pass tax laws for beneficiaries of charitable activities, will provide funding for state-owned targeted programs that provide support for charitable activities and will provide property outside the competition. So the benefits are there and there. So once again, I think we need to look at how these benefits should be effective, so that, in fact, money can come into these educational, cultural, not manipulative projects. And once again, I think we need to combine the good ideas of one bill and another.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u76	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. If we follow logic, we need to first adopt a new edition of the Charity and Charity Organizations Act, and then make changes. Taking into account the situation that has arisen, you, honourable colleagues, are asked to take the committee’s decision, to vote in favour of both bills and to accept as a basis. And obviously the committee will be working on a new edition along with the proposals of deputies and will take into account the proposals that are in the law, including our colleague Gregory Smittuch. It's important that no idea is lost. And then there's the committee's decision. So I will now put to the vote both the first and the second bills, and I would like to ask, honourable colleagues, to support this proposal that I have just sounded. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding State support for charitable activities. [[Registration number 6024]] Please vote. [[17:10:08]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Charity and Charity Organizations. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 6343]] Please vote. [[17:10:34]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you the draft Act amending article 15 of the Act on Cinematography concerning the procedure for issuing a state certificate for the distribution and demonstration of films. I would like to vote on the motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. The reporter is Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. [[17:11:13]] For 214 Decision taken. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, in our bill we are talking about responsibilities of the Act on Cinematography in accordance with the Law on Free System in the Field of Economic Activities. And it's about clearly defining the legal and organizational principles for the functioning of the permit system, establishing the only requirements for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature. Ukraine's Act on Cinematography, in particular article 15 of the Act, which also provides for the issuance of a state certificate for the distribution and demonstration of films, is not being established today, as required by the Ukrainian Act on the Free System of Economic Activities, the issuance of a certificate for the demonstration and distribution of the film, nor is there an exhaustive list of grounds for refusal and cancellation of the certificate. There is no position on the payment of a certificate that actually creates preconditions for certain abuses and sometimes unmotivated conditions. Travelers themselves have often complained of the danger in such a case of the unbiasedness of decisions taken by the public authorities, which includes the issue of issuing State certificates for the distribution and demonstration of films and the appropriate danger of uncompetitive methods of influencing film subjects. So what we're looking at right now is we're proposing to settle these issues in order to approve the terms of the decision to issue or refuse a licence within 15-20 days and to establish clear grounds for refusing or granting such a licence. There's no politics in this law at all, it's about the technical things that our film system needs to work better and more accurately. Please support, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u78	Thank you. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, the committee's decision on this matter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u79	Society, of course, is talking about a purely technological project, no politics here. It's about simply bringing in the very procedure of giving certificates for showing and distributing films, movies. That doesn't mean it's a completely new law and it's a completely new topic in Ukrainian legislation, but it really wasn't a normal issue and, frankly, there was all sorts of camaraderie and corruption, and so on. This bill actually introduces this process into the legal framework itself. It gives 15 days for the person who submitted the application to be distributed, to show the films. In the case of disagreements and such, 20 days are given, i.e. a very specific term, there is a very specific period when this question is resolved As a result, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality unanimously supported the bill at its meeting. And I ask the same thing for the majority and the minority to vote for it. Don't look for any subtexts because they're not there. And Mrs. Irina Heratschenko, I thank you for coming into this subject and filling in another white spot that was in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u80	Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss matters? Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Karpuk passes on the right to speak to Viacheslav Kirilenko, right? Please. The next one will be Carnivore Wadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u81	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, these are important changes and additions to the Film Act. But we're not going to talk about Ukrainian cinematographers at all soon. On the one hand, this government and budget this year envisions huge money for the development of Ukrainian film production. On the other hand, if you look at all the Ukrainian TV channels, we might see no more than 5 percent of the Ukrainian movies. What's more, this invasion of foreign, mainly Russian shows, it's actually taking Ukraine out of the cultural context. Because you and I don't see any more pictures of these shows in our cartoons, or Ukrainian landscapes, or Ukrainian context, or Ukrainian actors, or anything. And I think it's a question to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, too, because our actors are losing their jobs, they're getting smaller and smaller, and our infrastructural objects are also at risk. And the question is, by making a variety of changes, are we in principle deciding the future of the Ukrainian cinematographer as an important and humanitarian policy of the state and, most importantly, the economic policy of the state? So I would have asked that maybe since September, I would have asked for the support of the Head of the Supreme Council of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, the Parliament has returned to the idea of parliamentary hearings on the problems of the Ukrainian cinematographer. Because we need to know which direction it's going here and whether it's going at all. And the second question I want to address is this. The 15th anniversary of the great Ukrainian actor John Mikolaychuk was 70 years old. Parliament will not accept the Order on Commemorative Dates. It's like it's standing in order this week, but maybe we can take it, maybe not, and July 15 June. The Cabin must accept the proper arrangements.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u82	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u83	So in this context, I think that this issue should be on the spotlight of the Supreme Council right now, and we should help Ukrainian cinematographers here as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u84	Thank you, too. Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, we must surely be hurt for the development of our statehood, for the development of our cinematographers, for the development of our cultural and artistic actors. But they need to be supported by giving them the opportunity to work instead of driving them into the political corridors where they have to raise their hands as they want and pay for it. We have to give art the opportunity to develop freely as it is in democratic states. Of course, Ukraine’s cinematographer is not in the best of times. But an active government, the President of Ukraine, is doing everything we can and everything we can to ensure that the development of our art sector depends on how it affects our culture and the culture of our society. Regrettably, the bill that is proposed does not meet those requirements, the high requirements that have been made by the deputies who have spoken to me. It has a very large number of flaws, essentially legal ones, that make it impossible to realize the purpose for which the bill was written. So it would be best for us to get this bill back to work. We got it with a new legal technique so that it would be effective and very proper to spell out positions that relate exclusively to the development of our cinematographer. And after that, we would all generally support this bill, for the sake of our cinematographer, for our art, for our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u86	Yuri Gnatkevitch, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u87	Yuri Gnatkevitch, "BUT" faction. You know, my dear colleagues, I was surprised by Irina Heratchenko, and Vladimir Yavorowski, and even Vadim Koleschenko, saying a little that this law has no politics. But you are wise men! How there is no politics in the movie! Do you remember Vladimir Illich Lenin, what did he say? "All art is the most important movie for us." And just so you know what I mean, Vladimir Illich Lenin, I'll tell you that many times when I was called that. DDR, I've visited DDR so many times. And there I was told by the Germans, the teachers, the teachers, that when our occupying armies came there, they were showing Soviet films. But they were shown to be, let's say, fighting Soviet guerrillas with Germans. And they say, "They show a train and connections of German soldiers to the front of the East, our Osten!" And the guerrillas want to blow up that train. And we're, like, 13-14-year-old boys, you know who we're dealing with? For the Soviet partisans. And we were very unhappy that they had failed to blow up that train. That's what a movie is and how it manipulates people's minds. After Roxolana, which showed that Ukrainian cinema is and can be like a promising and interesting industry, this film was destroyed by Ukrainian oligarhat and Ukrainian "patient" because it scared them very much. Eventually, Ukrainian cinemas were destroyed, including the film studio O. I want to remind you that film is money that brings money to the state, but it takes money for a movie. I'm going to remind you that Shufrich has passed a bill on the creation of the Film Promotion Fund. [[Some place has disappeared, I can't see it.]] Paul Mukchan introduced such a bill. That didn't even happen. And remember, and it will not come. They removed the Deputy Prime Minister's Seminomist only because he refused or did not know how to eliminate the duplicates of Russian and American fighters and serials. And for us Ukrainians today, says a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u88	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u89	I'm done. Dear colleagues, Minister Kulinjak and the French have already arranged for the restoration of Ukrainian cinema. It's not gonna work. He'd better make a deal with the Ukrainian oligarchate and the kid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is appropriate to be sent to pre-work. I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukraine Film Act on the procedure for issuing a state permit for the distribution and demonstration of films. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:23:23]] For-94 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative of the draft law. Please vote. [[17:23:47]] For 295 Decision taken. I would like to announce for consideration the draft Decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Condemnation of Expressions That Introduce the Ukrainian People's Contribution to the Victory of Fascism in World War II. [[Registration number 7493]] I would like to vote on the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:24:22]] For 202 Decision taken. Reporter – Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna, co-rapporteur – the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Taras Crnowil.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, I will not say that there is no politics here. Of course, there is politics here in our proposal. And as our brothers say to the Russians, "Good spoon for lunch." Our decision was to consider the Supreme Council in December 2010, when Prime Minister Vladimir Putin of the Russian Federation twice during public action stated that the Soviet Union and its successor Russia without Ukraine would have won World War II. This statement was indignantly accepted by thousands of Ukrainian veterans who were still alive and millions of Ukrainian families who perceived it as a personal offense. And the position of the ruling party, which stated that Putin had spoken, was very impressive here, was his personal opinion. I'm sorry, this is what the prime minister of a friendly country has been talking about, and he can't afford a private opinion not in the kitchen. And I think that after this room has adopted such a law absolutely provocative about the red flag that it seems to have protected veterans, it should actually be consistent right now and tell our friends from the Russian Federation about the contribution that Ukraine made to World War II. And we know that at the time, the loss of Ukraine was between 40 and 44 percent of the total human loss of the Soviet Union. I would also like to remind the Hall of Honor that when it seemed to someone this afternoon that Maria Mathios, an outstanding Ukrainian writer of modern times, had insulted the monument only to the war of the Great Motherland Heroes, the whole division of the Kiev militia and the Attorney General’s Office was chasing her. So perhaps if we want to take care of the veterans, we have to condemn these statements today and address all of our colleagues wherever they live, whether it's Russian MPs or the leaders of the Russian Federation, to respect the contribution of Ukrainians to the Great Indian War. I think that we're going to make a big difference to our bilateral relationships. And take here an example from the State of Russia, which is literally every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u92	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u93	Every day after any event in Ukraine that seems to have overwhelmed Russian interests, it is determined that there are violent debates, very sharp statements, and appropriate decisions are made. I think it's our decision today, although it's wild that the Supreme Council is considering this decision six months after our proposal, we're actually working on, in fact, protecting historical memory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u94	Yes, please, Taras Viacheslavovich, the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u95	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! Well, first of all, about the committee's decision. The committee at its meeting reviewed the draft application and supported it unanimously. Now, here's a little bit about the statement itself. You know, there are test papers, test bills. In this room, I don't know if there's even a person who didn't swear allegiance to the Great Victory, the memory of those who died in it, well, the perception of the heroism of the people who fought, of the Soviet soldiers who fought for victory. And the statement suggests honoring these people. The statement is not provocative. There are no incidents against the Russian Federation in the application. What's more, I've probably been told by 10 times that we're committed to our friendship, our strategic partnership with the Russian Federation. That's very positive. Only note that there was an invalid statement. I wonder how people who swore before all the cameras, how they were committed to the cause of our veterans, were killed in that war. This decree is voted against, in which the text repeatedly repeats that Soviet soldiers in Ukraine, Ukraine, fought for this victory, laid down millions of lives, and were devoted to it. And that they cannot be trampled on by their memory. I am interested in the position of those who dare not vote for it. As far as the draft regulation and the text are concerned. You know, for me, there are things that are, let's say, unacceptable. I think she's a mess. If I had written a similar text, I would have strongly reminded, say, Vladimir Putin that the only country in the world where there was an army of collaborators, not a division, not a regiment, not a battalion, and an army, the Russian Liberation Army, is Russia. The only country that has exhibited about a million collaborators is Russia. But I don't think it's worth mentioning. And the author avoided it. An incredibly tolerant text that restores the honor and glory of the Soviet soldiers from the Ukrainian lands who died in that war. On behalf of the committee, please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikola Kulczynski, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction. Lilia Grigorovich, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Then Mikhailo Chechetov will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u97	Lilia Grigorovich, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! My position today is the official position of the Ukrainian MP and citizen, not the private position. And I hope that this official position can be stated by the entire Ukrainian Parliament. Why? But because there is no family in Ukraine who would not have put on the altar of World War II, the Great Homeland War of their relatives and loved ones. It seems, for some reason, that victory is only about one part of Ukraine that speaks of the Great Victory -- not true. My family, my mother’s first husband, died in the Finnish War, and she and the child remained in her arms, and the child died. My mother’s cousin died in the Great Homeland War. My husband's grandfather went through the whole country war ahead of him, in the first clusters that went with one shot to the plate. So when I'm told it's the Great Victory, it's not true, it's ours, it's ours, it's each of us Ukrainian victory. After all, Ukraine put the most of our territory on the altar because it was the First, Second, Third, Fourth Ukrainian Fronts. Isn't that our victory? Therefore, my dear ones, in the world they respect someone who respects himself. We Ukrainians are very tolerant. We don't like to copy other people's stories. We don't like to steal from other people's churches. But like the blood of the earth during the Great Homeland War of our parents, I think we should be the only ones today to respect ourselves so that the world respects us. And if from Galicina to Donbas every family has given the people this Great Victory, let's take the first step together today to ensure that our Ukrainian victory, our honor, our glory, our dignity, is supported by the Ukrainian Parliament. I believe it will be!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u98	Mikhaylo Chechtov, then it will be. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, I am addressing the author. Indeed, the rights of Lilia Grigorović must be made for the author to talk, not to hear what has been said. The heroic Ukrainian fronts were listed, and it was said that this was our victory, and what cynicism the cynics needed was the author of that decree in order to turn everything out accurately. You should have prepared a draft decree and condemned Ukrainian nationalists for spitting into the soul of veterans and trampling on the Flag of Victory. You had to condemn Ukrainian nationalists for even mentioning the term "Great National War". You had to condemn Ukrainian nationalists for denying the fact of victory itself. That's the decision you had to make. And the fact that you are trying to kill a wedge today between the great friendships of two brotherly peoples who have stopped fascism will not succeed. Remember, the policies that have touched the shrine, the friendship of the Russian and Ukrainian people today are at the mercy of history, and they will never come out of there. Therefore, prepare a ruling condemning the position of the nationalist, professional organizations of 9 May in Western Ukraine, apologizing to war veterans, to those who stood for peace, who broke fascism, and we are pleased to support such a decree. And even after Victory Day, I honestly didn't expect that cynicism from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u100	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u101	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. I went out to this rostrum, including on behalf of my grandfather Paul, who died in the territory of Belarus, Uncle Gregory, who was twice shot on Dniper, the grandfather of another Paul along his father's line, who died in 1958 from the wounds, four of my wife's uncles, and millions of Ukrainians who died in the Great, as you call it, Homeland War, I call it World War II. Why World War II? Because she had many nations involved on the one hand and on the other. Why do we limit ourselves today, above all? So that neither the Poles will mention us, nor the Czechs, nor the Yugoslavs, who fought. It was their war, it was world war. That's the first one. The other one. What's it called being a cynic? To do that, you can wave your hands and so on, but you have to realize that one of the leaders of the neighbouring state spit in the face of millions of veterans, calling them those who stayed somewhere, went somewhere, didn't fight. That's what this is about, not those young men who were somehow provoked by someone or programmed by someone like the Carpathians, then the NKVDistances sent from the neighbouring state, were shot in the back by civilians, dressed in the form of UPA Ukrainian troops. So I want to tell you, today these historical facts are very carefully protected from the public, as is the military parade in Brest, where the red flag that you're talking about was next to the fascist, with the swastika walk, and you've advertised to the whole world the ideology that is now inherent in fascism and communism, they have absolutely no difference. So when you talk about the red flag, think of 14.6 million Ukrainians who are dead, buried in a period of famine and so on. But that's not what we're talking about, we're talking about spitting in our faces, you're wiping out and you want to slip again, or Putin, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion of this matter. Allow me to have a few words before the vote. I think the faction will let me tell them. I think we need less expression here and more of a normal, calm conversation. We're splitting up the country, I mean, on different sides of the barricade, and what happens next? Dear colleagues, please don't shout. And I think it wouldn't be too much for the Supreme Council to read a few normal courses of lectures about war. There was World War II, and first the Soviet-German war, because then the name Great Motherland was later. No one would deny it. But you don't have to scream, your honorary colleagues, as we scream, but you have to read the normal people who are professionally involved in this subject, because more than that, it seems, the problem of war is moving into the epicenter of our political opposition. I must tell you, dear colleagues. Yesterday the International Conference was held in St. Petersburg in connection with the 65th anniversary of the Nuremberg Process. I spoke there on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament and asked questions about the price of victory and the place of Ukraine. Without the screams and no statements that are now being offered, let's be honest about what kind of squirm is late. Please, listen. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen! Please, listen! I've been listening to you. Listen! Dear colleagues, I want to say it again. The main thing for us is let's make sure that we understand the meaning. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I'm asking you for the meaning of war and meaning. So you and I can be the only ones in the country. So you and I can be the only ones. The main thing is that we respect ourselves. And most importantly, my fellow warlords, so that we don't tell the veterans elsewhere that "you didn't fight for it." And you don't have to cover yourself with a flag, because bad guys always cover themselves with a flag. Dear colleagues! The collisions were without a flag. We just have to give what's right to the people who defended it. Warring for Ukraine. We're not judges with you, Your Honor. And we're not being judged by our parents, by our grandparents, but we've taken on the role of judges. And respectable colleagues, and now regarding victory. Well, let's keep a strong stand -- and let's say we can't share the victory, despite the fact that there's a lot of parents to win, and losing always the poor, we know that. Now for the content of the document. Dear colleagues, we've all taught you the story. If you're going to cook something, it should be -- let's not get offended by our colleague Irina Heratchenko -- it should be a serious document, if we want to say something, to state our strong position, comparing it with the statements that are the State Department. Well, you take and look at this text and read it without political emotion. Is that the level of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Why are we now, there, up to 44 percent. There's about two. Or more than two thousand heroes. If we're already writing, let's say how many generals there were. My point is, if we do something, let's not jump in, dear colleagues, but let's show that we do have a position. At this point, I think it's a good thing that we, although late, discussed this subject. We're going to be more responsible and more consolidated now, I think. And I would ask you now without political insults. Let's not put to the vote this draft statement. First, we don't vote it, and secondly, I think the statement, well, it doesn't reflect Ukraine's contribution to the great victory that we're all talking about. 86 percent, dear colleagues, 86 percent of all time participating in the USSR war is Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I am no pathetic phrases, more than some shout. You. So calm down, read the normal publications! And I, given that the chairman has the right to sum it up and appeal to our common position, to put the motion to a vote, you insist that this statement be approved. It's just you to decide for yourself. I didn't name it. Dear colleagues, please! I didn't hurt anyone. Please, everyone! I respect everyone, even more. All of it! The vote is coming. [[17:41:26]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Dear MPs, well, it'll be a faction! What are you? The Party of Regions is 0, "BUT-"Batakushina" – 47, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 30, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 16, National Party – 0, non-factional – 4. You see, there's a split, we don't all take it together. Please, let's not politicize the subject. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Electricity Act. [[on improving the tariff system for electricity produced from biogas]] The reporter is Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, request to consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[17:42:27]] For 212 Decision taken. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u103	Dear National Deputies! Bill 8028, submitted by national deputy Horoshkevich, proposes that the green tariff should be promoted in Ukraine to apply the technology known in Europe, namely biogas complexes from mints based on the use of plant and animal biomasses and the construction of minitecs in landfills and cleaning facilities. The bill was repeatedly reviewed by the committee and recognized as relevant and worthy of support. However, during the discussions, the members of the committee considered it appropriate and appropriate to work on the editorial work, since sufficient experience has been made so far in applying the provisions of article 17 of the Law on Electricity to stimulate alternative sources of energy and there is a need for improvement. The work done by our committee consists of such legislative proposals. First, the concept of "biomassa" is clearly defined in accordance with the concept adopted in European legislation, secondly, to clarify the determination of the established capacity in institutions with the aim of stimulating the use of new more powerful and efficient equipment, thirdly, to specify the coefficient for biogas dumps depending on the capacity of the plant to take into account the effect of the scale of electricity production. Fourthly, there is an order of application of the Green tariff using alternative energy sources with partial use of traditional energy sources. Fifthly, the National Electricity Regulatory Commission provides a monitoring function for the use of funds from a green tariff aimed at preserving the investment direction of funds and ensuring the further development of alternative energy. At the same time, the committee, together with the NCRE, worked out economically sound values of stimulating coefficients for the mentioned types of alternative energy sources.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u104	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u105	All of these works are presented in a revised draft of the bill, which I propose to adopt as a basis. The committee made this decision unanimously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so let's take it as a basis, no objections? There is a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Law and we will continue our work for 15 minutes to 18 hours for 15 minutes. [[Registration number 8028]] Please vote. [[17:45:28]] For 303 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, now with regard to the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the taking of notarial action by officials of local self-government bodies]] At the same time, the author of the bill, Valérie Pisarenko, applied to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a decision to withdraw the bill. I'm voting on this motion to withdraw from the draft law. [[Registration number 5042]] Please vote. [[17:46:22]] For 257 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have included in the morning session two very important bills, among others 8463, on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, on the extension of the network of licensed centres and 8450 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activities on the order of issuance of copies of licences. Because the committee is ready and has prepared these bills, and is proposing to take them as a basis for how you would feel about it, because we are all talking about the importance of these documents, and the head of the committee of Natalia Kraljevska, who is looking after representatives of small, medium and small businesses, so that we can adopt these bills on the basis that we can work on the final solution. No objections? Bill 8463 is then under consideration. Please consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:48:03]] For 208 Reporter Yácišina Galina Mikolayovna, the first deputy head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, is also a reporter for Bill 8450. But we'll take a look at it separately. Please. So I said let's take a separate look.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u107	The Honourable Head, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Honourable Attendants, the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities has been drafted to implement the Protocol Decision of 14 January 2011 following the meeting of the Committee on Economic Reforms with the President of Ukraine. What is behind the drafting of this bill? At present, there are 24 available organs, the total number of central executive authorities and five permissive authorities at the level of the area that are part of the structural subdivisions of the district level. So only 29 structures, 78 of them don't have structural units at the level of the city, the area where the system of free centres is operating today. So 80 percent of the documents are available at the level of the area, and they are unable to implement the Ukrainian Law on Free System in the Field of Economic Activity. In order to be able to enforce the law, they have to send 35 to 40 workers daily to places in cities and districts. So we tried to solve that question in some other way. The city’s capitals, which are district centers, were approached, and only 14 of them agreed to enter the area’s permit structures. In addition, budgets, the city budget and the district budget are budgets of different levels, and there are questions about cost compensation. We had many appeals from the governors. So the question was put to the Committee on Economic Reforms, and not only did we get support and understanding, but we received a mandate from the President to draft this law. In addition, the bill deals with the issue of district leisure centres in the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol. You know that the Law also provides for the establishment of leisure centers in every area of these cities, with only 20 percent of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u108	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Mikhail Chechtov from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u109	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to establish a legal basis for the issuance of permits based on the principle of organizational unity at the regional level, namely: the establishment of district level licensing centres, regional licensing authorities. It is proposed to amend the Law on the Business Authorisation System. The term “regional licensing authorities” is introduced, and the term “regulatory centre” is set out in a new version. The post of landlord at the regional level is envisaged. It is proposed that the Regulations on the Governor and the manner in which he or she interacts with the licensing authorities be approved by the authorized authority. The adoption of the model provision on the basis of which local authorities approve the provision is withdrawn. In this regard, it is excluded that the regulations on the landlord and the manner in which he interacts with the authorization authorities at the local level are approved by the relevant council. Changes are made to the text of the law in connection with the introduction of the term “regional licensing authorities”. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Enterprise considered the bill and unanimously recommended that the room be adopted on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss whether to ask. ? Then please sign up for this. Yes, now, please show the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Karpuk passes the law to Kseniya Lapiniya, right? Please, Xenia Mikhailno.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u111	Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, here our entire faction has enough in common for this matter. Instead of improving this law, there are major disadvantages for entrepreneurs. Now, think about it. The idea of the liberation center was that there's a center where the authorities and the entrepreneur can get close to doing their work and get those permits at the liberty center, at the free office. Now 80 percent of these permits return to the area. And now it's not an organ to an entrepreneur, but an entrepreneur with Odessa's code for six hours on an old bus has to shake in Odessa with every permit. It's just the organs doing sabotage. They don't want to work in the only available centers. In particular, they do not want to go to the districts because there are no bribes. And so by centralizing it all again in the area, we're going back to the old service delivery system. When a person has to spend days and money, for example, to spend the night in a district center to get some paper called permission. We think it's going to make things much worse, a similar approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u112	Yes, Your Honor, I'm voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities to expand the network of free centres, free centres, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[17:54:27]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies, I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activities regarding the procedure for issuing copies of licences. [[Registration number 8450]] I would like to vote on the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:54:59]] For 221 Decision taken. Galina Mikolayevna Yacishina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u113	The need for this act to be adopted is that the valid Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity is a sign of a discriminatory nature in relation to the natural persons of entrepreneurs. Today, only legal persons have the right to obtain a copy of the license for their branches and separate structural units that are not located at the place of registration of this legal person. The natural persons who are entrepreneurs, they're deprived of that opportunity, and today they can only do their work at their place of residence. Therefore, the law establishes such a right for them to obtain copies of licences for a separate location of their activities. So this is the area, the premises that meet the requirements of the licensing conditions, are outside the residence of such a person and belong to the right of use or ownership. The law also regulates the legal colossion, which states that a copy of the license is a document confirming the right of a branch or a structural unit to carry out an activity, we replace it with a licensee, not a branch. That is, we bring it into line with legislation. This right-wing coalition is being removed. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u114	Yes, please have a seat. Thank you. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u115	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to create an equal environment for all operators who intend to carry out or carry out economic activities that are subject to licensing. It is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain economic activities. The main need for a legislative act is that the current Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain economic activities establishes the procedure for issuing copies of licences for legal persons only. This is not the case for natural persons, entrepreneurs. Such an imperfection of the law creates conditions of unfair competition and is discriminatory in relation to individuals, entrepreneurs. In addition to the above, the adoption of legislation is due to the need to correct the incorrect wording of the individual provisions of Act 1775. Thus, part seven of article 14 of Act 1775 states that a copy of the licence certified by the licensing authority is a document that confirms the right of the subsidiary or other structural entity of the licensee to carry out certain business activities on the basis of the licence obtained. While the term “licension” is defined by law in 1775, such a document certifies the relevant right of the licensee, not the branch. The inadequacy of the drafting of the law led to a conflict of rules, since a copy of a document could not modify the legal content of the original document. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Enterprise considered the bill and decided to recommend the sessional room to adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, is there no objection to putting the committee to the vote? You don't? I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity on the order of issuance of copies of licences. [[Registration number 8450]] Please vote. [[17:58:53]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have another question. This is a draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the Restructuring of Debt for Services in Maintenance of Buildings and Buildings and Incentive Areas and Municipal Services, which was formed on 1 December 2006. [[on the grant mechanism]] [[Registration number 8390]] I would like to support the proposal to deal with this issue in a simplified manner. [[17:59:39]] For 215 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Vitaly Shapolenko. Correspondent is the deputy head of the committee Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u117	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine present, is invited to your consideration by the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Restructuring of Debt from Service and Maintenance of Houses and Buildings and Instigation Areas and Municipal Services, which was formed on 1 December 2006. The bill has been drafted by the government to improve the social protection of citizens, particularly those who have the right to receive subsidies for housing and utility costs. Currently, the Ukrainian Act on Restructuring Debt for Maintenance Services and Buildings and Incentive Areas, Municipal Services, which was formed on December 1, 2006, provides for a rule that does not allow for the granting of a subsidy in the event of a citizen being in debt for residential services without a contract to restructure such debt. This leads to delays during the grant process, and some citizens cannot even obtain it by law. With a view to removing the excess barrier when receiving subsidies from citizens, the Ukrainian Act on Restructuring Debt for Services for Maintenance of Houses and Buildings and Incentives and Municipal Services, which was established on December 1, 2006 delete the requirement for compulsory accommodation by a citizen, a debtor with an enterprise that provides housing and utilities with a contract for the restructuring of debts for housing and utility services. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u118	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin, deputy chairman of the committee Please, about the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, well, the essence of the law is very simple. You realize that in order to form a grant, a person had to go to the CHEK or go to the rynergo and make a deal that he would eventually pay off his debt. Because of that, you know, we have a pretty low level. The definition of these subsidies, which is why it is now proposed to exclude this requirement so that a person can form a subsidy without being able to do so, rather than being able to do so. If there's no way, form this contract to restructure your old debt. Because this is a step forward – that's what the committee thinks. Whether it's a small dot in the sea or a drop in the sea for our people, yet it's a relief, a shortcut to subsidies, and the committee supports this bill, and it also asks you to support it in order to make life easier for our people in public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, is there no objection to putting this question to the vote? You don't? I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 8390]] Please vote. [[6:03:23]] For 285 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, why don't we make this decision definitively if there's no objection? Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law as a law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt for Services in Maintenance of Houses and Buildings and Incentive Areas and Municipal Services, which was created on 1 December 2006. [[on the grant mechanism]] Registration number 8390. Please vote. [[18:04:14]] For 285 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, here we have another bill, co-reported by Yuri Carmazin, otherwise. [[I'm seriously asking you!]] Dear colleagues, he did not make a warning about the adoption of the entire previous law. So let's look at it, this draft law, 4192, with a reduced procedure. The reporter is Yuri Voropeyev. And the co-reporter is Yuri Carmazin. Please vote on the reduced procedure. [[18:05:03]] For 221 Decision taken. Thank you. Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev, please. 4192.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, the bill was submitted in 2007. It concerns the possibility of submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u122	Nine, nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u123	In the end, to revive this form of criminal proceedings. All right, let's make it 2009. He was born in 2007 ..as a bet. That is, with regard to the release from custody of the accused or the suspect on bail, which we do not have, in principle, work in the country. I'm not talking about the law itself, you've seen it, there's a chart for you. I will only talk about the findings of the expert office under this law. In particular, the Office of Experts considers that the amount of the deposit specified in the law is too small. What is it? Under this law, it is proposed that the bail for the release from custody of a suspect or accused person for the commission of, say, the average seriousness of the crime be offered from 8.5,000 bracelets to 17,000 bracelets. A lot of it or a little bit of it is such a subjective factor, and everyone may have a point of view in this regard. From my point of view, bailing a suspect, an accused is a small sum. Or, for example, an expert management comment on the possibility, i.e. the right of investigators and judges to be released from custody under bail or their duties. In our country, I believe that the right to be released cannot be granted, and we must do so. Because that right will be traded. As a result, it is not the State that will earn the income, but it will earn the income of all other people. And other such comments. Maybe we're not ready for this law right now. But I assure you, this time will be, every time, we won't be ready every time. Either one half of the room won't be ready to go to that law, or the other half of the room won't go to that law. If only we had put the law on a specific list, on whom.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u124	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u125	Then maybe we'd support him. I leave you to vote on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u126	Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please, suggestions from the committee. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin is the first deputy head of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u127	Yuri Carmazin. I would like to point out that my opinion is different from the thought that I am about to make on behalf of the committee. I think that the law is extremely progressive and extremely well-written. That's my personal opinion, Yuri Carmazin. The committee, on the other hand, determines that the project is intended to introduce article 154 prime in a new edition. and part one of article 155 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. These changes, according to its authors, should help to ensure that the principle of the individual’s integrity, that is, to reduce the scope of the precautionary action in the form of guarding and choosing instead, is implemented, since the mortgage, without restricting the individual’s freedom, acts indirectly because of the person’s property interests. To your knowledge, there is a person accused or suspected of committing a serious crime of between 1001 and 6,000 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes, that is, serious sums. The Committee notes that the status of the project coincides with that of the draft amendment to the Criminal Procedure Code on prior imprisonment and precautionary measures No. 4189. In their conclusions, professional ministries, authorities, and scientific institutions are insisting on the need to finalize the bill, and the implementation of the bill has an impact on the income portion of the state budget. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority says that it needs to be sent to pre-work. In view of this, the committee’s decision to return the bill to work on it was taken by a majority. I'd like to say now on behalf of Yuri Carmazin. I don't want to embarrass myself, and I want to say that it says, "if a suspect, accused, defendant violates a commitment, the mortgage turns to the state's income." And here's the colossal stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u128	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u129	That's between 102,000 and 306,000 dollars. We would have filled the budget enormously. And because I've studied this bill well, I say, I've been standing here in Voropayev, and I thank him, and this is the bill and the People's MP Pisarenko, and I thank them both. An extremely serious bill, made at the western level, could be adopted in the first reading. But the political moment needs another, it was introduced in 2009. Those who can, those who will allow their consciences, support them. I'll vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-17-m1.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal was understood and the author reported. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further development. It's a major science-expert management of the same mind. But at the same time, and in accordance with the Rules, and taking into account the personal opinion of Mr. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[about the bet]] [[Registration number 4192]] Please vote. [[18:11:32]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative to draft a bill. Please vote. [[18:11:58]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue working in plenary mode, so we'll be working in the session room from 10 o'clock on Wednesday. Tomorrow, as you know, is the day of the opposition. Thanks for the job.
