ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Personally, we'll make a roll call. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:05]] It was registered with 378 national deputies. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open and ask to invite deputies to the session hall. Dear colleagues! A draft Act amending article 67 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the transfer of working days]] [[Registration number 5187]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Svetlana Alexandrov. Second reading. Yes, while the reporter is on his way, the esteemed colleagues, the examination of the session hall did not confirm the anonymous call for the replacement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, we have every reason to work quietly. You can work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u2	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The bill provides for the right of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to recommend working days to businesses, institutions, and organizations. Such arrangements are expected to be issued no later than three months before the date of the first day of work to be carried over, and managers of enterprises, institutions, and organizations are required to issue an appropriate order when using these recommendations not later than two months before the date of the first day of work to be carried over. On November 2, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed the bill and adopted it as a basis. The bill received four proposals from Ukrainian national deputies, which were included. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work was working on the draft bill, and on December 1, this year it was discussed at its meeting. It is proposed that the bill be adopted as a second reading and as a law. The Chief Legal Authority also believes that the bill can be adopted in a second reading and as a law. In view of the above, it is suggested that the bill be adopted in the second reading as a law and as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the adjustments are taken into account. The Committee's findings have just been announced. The main legal administration of comments is not before the bill. So we have every reason to put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill to amend article 67 of the Labour Code. [[on the transfer of working days]] Dear colleagues, please vote. [[16:03:11]] For-200 The decision is not taken. We didn't make it. Please invite the deputies to the session room. Well, the decision's over. There's no replacement, let's work. You vote there, you don't vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the motion to return to the draft law, registration number 5187. Please vote. [[16:04:00]] For 229 We're back. I now put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending article 67 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. [[on the transfer of working days]] Please vote. [[16:04:34]] For 236 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I now propose your consideration of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Register of Voters. [[concerning the powers of the State registry and the compilation of voter lists]] [[Registration number 3469]] Upper Sergei Petrovich is a reporter, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. You don't? Dear colleagues, the committee. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, this is about a bill that was introduced at the end of 2007 and was prepared for second reading by the committee in early 2009. So almost two years ago. During this time, a whole series of changes were made to electoral legislation, a new edition of the Law on the State Register of Voters was adopted, and the bill became anachronistic. Therefore, the committee suggests that it be removed from consideration as a loss of relevance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, there is a need for a committee to be reasoned. It was stated by Yuri Klukkowski that there is good reason for us to withdraw this bill from our consideration. I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the rejection and withdrawal of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Register of Voters”. [[on the status and exercise of the authority of the national voter register and the compilation of voter lists prior to the creation of the State voter register]] [[Registration number 3469/P2]] Please vote. [[16:06:43]] For-52 The decision is not taken. I'm going to the committee. Please back up your arguments. I understand that now this bill will be hung as unnecessary. Please. The bill has lost its power, the elections have taken place, so we still have to accept it. Please, Yuri Klukkowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, the bill envisioned changes to the Law on the State Register of Voters. [[in 2007]] I would like to emphasize once again that for the second reading, a comparative table was prepared in 2009. However, in 2010, a new edition of the Law on the State Register of Voters was adopted by you, by the majority. In this regard, the wording of the bill simply refers to the wrong law now. And that's why he's out of date. I don’t understand why I shouldn’t shoot, and what should I do with this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a motion to return to the bill. [[Registration number 3469]] Please vote. Yuri Bogdanovich, vote. [[16:08:13]] For 258. They went back to reviewing the bill. I now put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of the draft law. [[Registration number 3469/P2]] Please vote. [[16:08:45]] For 265 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, a draft law on education for persons in need of physical or mental development is being submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[special education]] [[Registration number 1270]] [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, Samuelka Catherine Semenovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u8	Almost a year ago, in our first reading, we adopted the bill, but on July 6, this year, we conducted recommendations, as a result of parliamentary hearings, and adopted the Law on Change to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Education. [[on the creation of appropriate teaching conditions for children]] This bill sets out prerequisites for improving education policies for this category of children, gives legal status for teaching children with special needs, defines new types of educational institutions, such as rehabilitation centres. Moreover, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine has adopted the concept of inclusive education, which provides basic directions for this direction of education for children of the same age. In addition, there is also a project on special classes for children, for teaching children with special educational needs, which are now practically being implemented by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, and of course by all educational institutions. In view of the fact that the practical issue of teaching children with special needs has already been addressed in the basic law, the need for a special law is no longer needed. And so, Mikhail Vasilovich, I ask you very much to support the committee's decision to withdraw the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u9	Dear colleagues! Is the offer understood? Since the bill is already included in other legislative acts, we need to withdraw this bill. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the withdrawal from the draft Ukrainian Education Act of persons in need of correction of physical and mental development. [[special education]] [[Registration number 1270/P1]] Please vote. [[16:11:39]] For 241 Decision taken. I take this opportunity to refer to the committee heads, as we have agreed on the Conciliation Council, and I would like you to examine the bills that are in committee work, the ones that are out of date, in order to clear up the list of bills that are under consideration in the Ukrainian Parliament. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to other issues, namely: the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Approval of the National Programme for the Development of Ukraine's Mineral and Raw Materials for the period to 2010. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[16:12:42]] For 184 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection, Mormul Dmitry Dmitrovich. Correspondent is a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich. Please have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u10	The Honourable Head, the Honourable People's Deputies! The adoption of the National Programme for the Development of the Mineral Raw Base of Ukraine by 2030 will create conditions for the systematic conduct of regional geological research, research and exploration, including strategically important beneficial fossils, the accumulation and storage of geological information on nadra, the establishment of a mineral-based condition for the calculation of fossil resources in excess, scientific research in the field of geological research and the use of nadrs. The implementation of the programme will ensure that the following tasks are met: assessing the possibility of creating a balanced mineral raw base of geological beneficial fossils; drawing up an adequate plan for reducing Ukraine's dependence on imported and deficient for the national raw material economy and strengthening its expertise on those beneficial fossils that are at the top of the state and have a sustainable demand for the world market; preparing recommendations for the development, effective exploitation of the mining and mining base of Ukraine for the purpose of ensuring economic development of its citizens; and analysing the provision of rational and integrated use of the technical raw material resources; The main results of the program are expected to be: Opening and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u12	Mobilization of additional and budgetary resources to reinvest the industry, concentration of work on the most important objects. The comments and recommendations of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are taken into account and submitted to the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u13	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Andrievich Danilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u14	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The bill proposes to amend and supplement the current state-wide programme for the development of Ukraine's mineral and raw material base by 2010, approved in 2006, Ukraine. The changes take into account the concessional proposals that allow this state-of-the-art programme to continue until 2030 and relate to the assessment of the overall state of the mineral raw material base of Ukraine instead of the directions. the content of the species directions, including the calculation of funding volumes and the list of measures. The Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded with a bill stating that the bill had been drafted and registered in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security also concluded the bill, recommending that it be adopted in the first reading as a basis. The main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion to the bill, makes certain observations and suggestions. First of all, this refers to the need to comply with the requirements of the National Objective Programmes Act, which provides for the preparation and evaluation of annual programme performance reports. The bill should be entitled “The Ukrainian Act on the Approval of the National Programme for the Development of the Ukrainian Mineral and Raw Base for the period to 2030”. The overall part of the project contains various economic indicators that are not relevant. According to the general conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, a bill is proposed in the first reading to be adopted on the basis of the comments made. The committee addressed the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with a proposal for an award.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u15	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u16	on the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a final report on the results of the national programme. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the approval of the National Programme for the Development of the Ukrainian Mineral and Raw Materials for the period to 2010, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, on a basis. [[Registration number 7360]] [[of 11.11.2010]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion if that's what you need. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. There are no willing speakers. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt a bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office has also adopted a positive conclusion and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the approval of the National Programme for the Development of the Ukrainian Mineral and Raw Materials for the period to 2010. [[Registration number 7360]] Please vote. [[16:19:35]] For 285 Decision taken. Thank you. And I'd like to ask the committees to take a look at the preparations for the second reading for the 2010 date. Okay, thanks. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that your draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Listing Property Rights Objects that Are Not Privatized is taken into account. [[on the state-owned liquor and liquor industry, Ukrispirt]] [[7414 registration number of the document]] The committee suggests that it be considered in a simplified manner. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. There's a vote coming. [[16:20:40]] For 181 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics and Food, Ladik Vladimir Ivanovich. The focal point is the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u18	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, the purpose of the adoption of the law, the draft Ukrainian Law is to prevent the alienation of the State-owned liquor and liquor industry of Ukrespirt from State-owned property, by including it in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatisation. The need to complement the list of non-privatisation state property entities in the government's decision to unite in one newly created legal entity, the State-owned liquor and liquor industry, Ukrespirt, all the power to produce ethyl alcohol and all the appropriate state powers in the production of alcoholic beverages. The restructuring of state-owned enterprises and the mergers of the spirit and liquor industry, which are part of the mining sector, is now under way through the accession of the Ukrcspirt State Enterprise, the creation of reorganised enterprises of separate divisions and the allocation of property using which subcontractive products are produced, and the transfer of it to the State-owned liquor and liquor industry Ukrispirt. Since reorganized enterprises and the merger of the alcohol and liquor industry are listed as property rights and are not privatized, the Ukspirt State-owned liquor and liquor industry as the successor to the property rights and obligations of state-owned liquor and liquor companies should also be extended to the prohibition of alienation from state property. Mine politicians are asking for support for this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u19	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who will be speaking from the committee? Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich? I can't see. There's also the conclusion of scientific expertise and the committee's decision. The Committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole, since it is a matter of inclusion in a list of enterprises that are not subject to privatization. Dear colleagues, who insists on this? Please sign in. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then John Kirilenko will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that this project needs to be supported and that the Ukrispirt merger should be included in the list of non-privatisationable objects. But today I am concerned about another question: How did it happen that the initiative, which goal was finally achieved when all the Ukrainian alcohol factories were deprived of legal rights? And it's all concentrated now in Kiev, now here's the mind, honour and conscience of the alcohol era. What did this give Ukraine’s alcohol, and what benefits? Why is it not possible to get an order for the removal of alcohol now, and you can't get alcohol at Ukrainian liquor plants? What good have we accomplished, what? I don't understand what the point is. If these were state liquor factories, many in the Ternopil area, which in the Ternopil area brought nearly 586 million dollars of excise goods, they are now deprived of legal rights and the right of a legal person to be in Kiev. For what purpose has this been done? And another thing: I'm not sure that now that we've made this decision, we'll be able to discuss the issue of launching Ukrainian bioethanol in a normal, peaceful environment. Dear colleagues, how many times have I spoken from this rostrum and now I am yelling: we are Kuwait! We're Kuwait! We are Brazil and Argentina, we have bioethanol, we can produce it in an unlimited amount, we have to provide our production, our transport services for heavy transport. There's a note at the Motor Office, we need to work on it. But that's not the point. We are currently in business, I don't think so, and the alcohol industry in Ukraine today is in a dangerous state, in a state of collapse. Is that how someone wants to preserve the breakup? You're not gonna make it! We will follow closely the results of the financial and economic activities of Easter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u21	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, “BUT” faction, “Fatherhood”, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u22	. The argument that my colleague Suhi has said is that there is only one thing left to say that this law cannot be upheld. You can't. And I want to continue with his opinion from this point of view: and what to do, in Ukraine, more than 80 liquor factories, only 40 of them work, and 40 of them turn into scrap metal. At one time these factories were unable to meet the needs of the Soviet Union. Now, it makes sense that what a colleague offered to do to me would be reproved immediately. The only country in the world, Ukraine, is the only country in the world, and I want to emphasize which, by completely segregated out of 34 million hectares of land in processing, only 6 million hectares, only 6, without damaging its food security, and having plus handfuls, shorts, combos and so on, can produce 11 million tons of light but bio-light: bio-iselle, bio-etanol. Eleven million is what we consume every year, paying billions of dollars for imported raw materials, and today we can have a clean bio. We have a completely different motivation for agriculture, colossal motivation, normal seismics, energy independence, and a completely different ecology, because bio is the ecology of the highest species. So, friends, we need to take a closer look at the problem, at the root of this: energy independence, bio and the alternative kinds of energy that we're talking about. I'm not talking about jobs anymore, given the budget, I'm not saying that this is already a high-tech thing that Ukraine needs as a country that wants to make a technological breakthrough in its 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. In the presentations, the problem is much broader than the draft law by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Simply include Ukrispirt in the list of enterprises that are not subject to privatization. That's why I think we need to agree, honourable colleagues, on the commission of the Committee on Economic Policy, on the issue of agrarian politics, that they immediately made a proposal on the issues that the speakers were talking about. Is there no objection? So I'm asking the secretariat to prepare an assignment for the two committees, to set clear deadlines when they should make agreed proposals, agreed, of course, with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Now, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee on acceptance as a basis and in the whole of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. [[on the state-owned liquor and liquor industry Ukrispirt]] [[Registration number 7414]] Please vote. [[16:29:23]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Who's in charge of going back to the bill? They say they didn't make it, so let's go back. Back to the bill. [[16:29:54]] For 235 We're back. I am now voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole the bill. [[Registration number 7414]] Please vote. [[16:30:20.]] For 228 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts on improving the permit system in the field of economic activity and the application of administrative law is under consideration. The bill has registration number 7413. I'll put it to a vote on the reduced procedure. [[16:31:00]] For 196 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of the Accession of Mikol Ivanovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Chechtov Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, the exercise of control over compliance with the requirements of legislation on the issue of documents of a permissive nature is, among other things, taken into account within the competence of the law enforcement authority. According to article 255 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, officials of a special authorized body shall draw up reports on administrative offences for violating the procedure for issuing documents of a permissive nature of articles 166-10. Certain issues relating to monitoring compliance with the requirements of legislation on the issue of documents of a permissive nature and the application of administrative law for violations of the order of their issuance and the inaction of ensuring the functioning of the centres have remained unresolved. This made it necessary to make changes to the law. In addition, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Free Economic Activities of 11 February 2010 empowers other state administrators to draw up protocols on administrative offences in cases provided for by law, which also requires certain amendments to the Code on Administrative Offences. The draft law aims to improve procedures in accordance with European standards to monitor compliance with the requirements of legislation on the issue of documents of a permissive nature and to apply administrative law for infringements by State administrators of the issuance of documents of a permissive nature by the heads of local self-government, local executive authorities of the requirements for the establishment and operation of an arbitrary centre. The adoption of the aforementioned draft Ukrainian law will contribute to the reduction and termination of administrative ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u25	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u26	which are assumed both during the issuance of the documents of a permissive nature and during the creation and operation of the centres where such documents are to be issued by local permitting authorities. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u27	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov on the committee's decision on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u28	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts to improve the permit system in the field of economic activity and the application of administrative law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to improve in accordance with European standards and procedures to monitor compliance with the requirements of legislation on the issue of documents of a permissive nature and to apply administrative law for infringements by the authorities, their officials, state administrators of the order of issue of documents of a permissive nature. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded in its opinion that, as a result of the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislation on the improvement of the permit system in the field of economic activity and the application of administrative law could be adopted on the basis of the following comments and suggestions. After discussing the bill, the members of the committee determined that the adoption of the bill would ensure the quality and timely implementation by the officials of the authorized bodies of the legislative requirements, and decided to amend the Ukrainian Act on the Improvement of Certain Legislative Acts on the Improvement of the Allowance System in the Field of Economic Activities and the Application of Administrative Law, submitted by the Government of Ukraine, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to propose that it be accepted as a basis. [[Registration number 7413]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u29	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the evaluation of this bill. Names of the national MPs, please. No one wants to speak. So it's clear to everyone, so I'm putting the committee's proposal to the vote -- attention, please! on the adoption of a draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the improvement of the system of permits in the field of economic activity and the application of administrative law. [[Registration number 7413]] Please vote. [[16:36:32]] For 209 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the draft law, registration number 7413. Please vote. [[16:36:57]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance". [[on the cancellation of a mandatory state pension insurance from non-cash-sales transactions]] [[Registration number 7534]] It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:37:39]] For-198 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Vladimir Leonidovich Krotuk. Correspondent is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Cibenko Petar Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u30	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, it should be noted that the bill introduced by the National Bank does not contain innovations in Ukrainian legislation. Its positions are aimed at harmonising legislation and eliminating differences between the Ukrainian laws “On the collection of compulsory state pension insurance” and “On the State Budget 2011”. Yes, the State Budget Act 2011, which defines the sources of the formation of a special state budget fund, does not define such a source of assembly for compulsory state pension insurance from cash-free transactions for foreign currency purchases for money. At the same time, when the State Budget Act was adopted, the corresponding changes were not made to the Ukrainian Law on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance, which is fundamental to the payment of the congregation’s compulsory state pension insurance. The bill, prepared by the National Bank, aims to remove the colossal conflict and provides for exceptions to the Assembly Act to mandatory state pension insurance rules for the payment of such a collection from non-cash transactions for foreign currency purchases for money. The issue of the need for the repeal of the mentioned standard was still raised, since it inhibits the arrival of foreign investment in Ukraine and does not contribute to the objective determination of the exchange rate. It should be noted that there are no such congregations in the world. A similar tax on foreign currency purchases to Russia was cancelled as early as 2002. The bill is supported by the government. We believe that the adoption of the bill will ensure the harmonization of national legislation and will have positive effects on the development of the currency market, facilitate the objective determination of the exchange rate of the bracelet, increase foreign investment in Ukraine, and have a positive impact on the minimization of inflation. Please support the bill by adopting it in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u31	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u32	Please support the bill by adopting it in the first reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u33	Thank you. Now, from the committee, we'll listen to the idea. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! In carrying out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, which we received at this morning's meeting, the committee reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance. I would like to remind you that the bill proposes to amend the Act on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance by removing the rules on the provision of compulsory state pension insurance to the congregation when carrying out transactions in the sale of non-cash foreign currency. It must be said that this rule was first introduced in 1999, and I am proud that the author of this rule of law was my colleague from the faction of Vitaly Ivanovich Lucenko, then head of the Committee on the Rights of Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons. And I want to remind some of our colleagues that in the late 1990s, in the early 2000s, the situation in the Pension Fund budget was extremely difficult. If you remember, then the pitiful pension was divided by 40 to 60 percent, then the pension delays, according to pension payments, were 6 to 8 months. Much of this, including this rule, has resulted in the elimination of this huge gap in the budget of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Most of the members of the committee objected to this law, believing that the main function of our committee was to fill the pension fund's budget, but not to create a situation where the pension fund's budget would not receive an additional amount of about a billion dollars over the course of the year. That is why most members of the committee objected to this decision, respected colleagues. Appointing for a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee was determined against the adoption of this law because we see that there is no absolute logic in this bill. In the past. In the past budget. We had a 27 million hole in last year's Pension Fund budget this year, expected to be 17. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u35	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u36	This year is expected to be 17 billion. And we don't want to raise a billion dollars off the floor in order to reduce the budget deficit of the Pension Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u37	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, the report, and the report are delivered. Please sign up for the discussion. Do we have a representative of the Pension Fund to express his point of view? Please, Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Alexander Paklusenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u38	The issue of the Pension Fund is, of course, a national problem that needs to be addressed in a complex. And this bill does not affect this problem. And we understand that there are complex, investment-related difficulties in the economy today. This bill is supported by the Government, supported by the National Bank. Don't my colleagues understand what the government is going through with you? Therefore, I would like to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u39	Catherine Samuel's faction of Communists. Then Yuri Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u40	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will not vote in favour of the bill. Starting from what? Among other things, we did not vote for inclusion in the agenda. It would be good for those who are doing so well to adopt this bill to get to know the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which, among other things, was prepared on January 10th, after the adoption of the State Budget of Ukraine. So this is where our attention is drawn to the fact that this congregation is one of the sources of the creation of a special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine in part of the income that goes to the Pension Fund of Ukraine for the payment of pensions, allowances and pensions granted under various pension schemes. Including listen to me and those who do science, science and technology, you write a lot. And it is clear that the cancellation of the congregation will result in a reduction in the amount of income coming to the Ukrainian Pension Fund, which is actually going to be very important. We'd like to hear from the National Bank, which is where the sources are going to make sure that there's not such a big deficit in the Ukrainian Pension Fund. And I think we don't have to adopt this law, we don't have to vote. And listen to the comments of our administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which doesn't even offer us a bill, and basically as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u41	Yuri Odarchenko, Faction “BUT – Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u42	Odarchenko, "BUT – Fatherland". Dear colleagues, as soon as the President of the National Bank was voted in the session room and he did not give his report, everyone thought that he would start his work. Dear colleagues, today we have the first initiative of the National Bank of Ukraine in the head of the National Bank, where it proposes a completely lobbyist law that cancels contributions to the Pension Fund in cash-free operations. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind our colleagues from the Communist Party faction that they have unanimously supported this Head of the National Bank. And essentially today, all of this talk about what he's doing wrong is the result of their position a few days ago. Today, we see very clearly that a new pension reform is being proposed that the government has sounded. And it is proposed to be made by the average citizens of Ukraine, today, at the expense of mothers, women who have an extended retirement age. But transactions where large corporations convert currencies without cash are withdrawn from the Pension Fund. I think it's a bill to vote immorally at all. He was immorally brought to the Supreme Council. And today, every deputy who pushes the "yes" button has to explain to women that I supported it, I supported some big corporations, but I didn't support you in making sure that they were in line with the Pension Fund. “BUT – Fatherland” will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I just got off the phone with the head of the Pension Fund. For 8 months, they don't get anything from the sale of currencies, and they don't have the funds in their balance sheet at all. And it's about keeping the bracelets and the language. [[B in m in s a l in]] I, my dear colleagues, convey to you the fact that I have consulted. And make a civilized decision. So let's not bring this into politics, each one will be defined by voting. That's my offer. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Assembly for Compulsory State Pension Insurance. [[on the cancellation of a mandatory state pension insurance from non-cash-sales transactions]] [[Registration number 7534]] Please vote. [[16:49:19]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can. You just watch as you vote. I'm voting on the return to the bill 7534. Please vote. Back to the bill. Please vote. [[16:49:50]] For 217 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Calm down! I just got here. Once again, information has been sent to me from our office that this tax has essentially been cancelled in the Budget Act. He's not there. It's just bringing everything together. What to do, I don't know. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's "the cards didn't work"? So put them right, check the cards, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Please! I'll do it again! Well, respectable colleagues. Please, calm down! Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the motion to return to Bill 7534. Well, they say the cards didn't work. Let's see how it works this time. Well, let's see how it works this time. [[16:51:11]] For 224 Let's do it this way. Dear colleagues, please, I have an offer. I'll put it to a vote. Please, let's postpone the consideration of this bill, invite the head of the Pension Fund to explain it to us. Dear colleagues, I have an offer: to postpone consideration of this matter to Thursday. Tomorrow we can't. Tomorrow is the day of the opposition. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We will receive information from the Pension Fund, from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to show us real calculations and make a final, objective, responsible, and balanced decision. Do we have a deal? Then don't we have to vote for it? Let's put the question on the table for Thursday. Dear colleagues, once again, I want to tell you that tomorrow there will be a national deputy, Arzvetin, a representative of the banking environment, they will explain to you, and you will vote. So you don't have to yell. All of it. Dear colleagues, the question was postponed to Thursday. Is there no objection? Thank you. For the stenographer, the question was postponed to Thursday. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed in the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons Entrepreneurs. [[on the characteristics of the State registration of central executive authorities]] [[Registration number 7525]] Suggestion: To consider this question by a simplified procedure. [[16:53:19]] For 211 Decision taken. Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Gorbatuk Anatoly Alexiyovich, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Chechtov Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u44	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies and invitees, the draft Law has been prepared for the purpose of settling relations arising from the state registration of a newly created and formed body as a legal person, joining, dividing or transforming a central authority. The need for an urgent legislative solution to this issue is due to the ongoing administrative reform that is under way today. Thus, paragraph 15 of the first article 106 of the Constitution establishes that the President of Ukraine forms, reorganizes and eliminates for the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine to the Ministry and other central executive authorities, acting within the limits of the funds provided for the maintenance of the executive branch. According to article 81 of the Civil Code, public authorities are legal persons. The implementation of the functions of the central authority of the State must be ensured from the time of the appointment of its head. However, what is mentioned is impossible without the central authority of the executive power of the status of a legal person. The draft law provides for amendments to article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons of an Enterprise, to be supplemented by a new article of the Law on the National Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of an Enterprise, which sets out the characteristics of the state registration of the newly created and created entity as a result of the merger, association, division, or transformation of the central authority of the executing authority as a legal person. Yes, the draft law proposes that the state registration of a newly created or formed merger, merger, division, or conversion of the central executive authority as a legal person be carried out within three days of the date of the act of the President of Ukraine on the appointment of the central executive authority. To conduct a public registration, the head of the central executive authority or the authorized person shall submit to the public registry a completed registration card for the conduct of a state registration of a legal person certified by a copy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u45	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u46	a certified copy of the act of the President of Ukraine on the appointment of the head of the central executive authority, a document certifying the introduction of the registration assembly for the conduct of the national registration of the legal person. No later than the following working day from the date of the national registration of a legal person, the State registrar forms and publishes, sends the recommended letter to the head of the central executive body or to the person authorized by him a certificate of state registration of a legal person. With the adoption of the draft law, relations will be normalized with the state registration of the newly created and created result of the removal, merger, division or transformation of the central executive authority as a legal person, which will remove the existing legislative gap and contribute to the successful implementation of administrative reform. Please support as a whole as a matter of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u47	Thank you, sit down, please. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov on the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u48	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 11 January 2011 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs, submitted by National Deputy Horbatuk. [[on the characteristics of State registration in central executive bodies]] [[Registration number 7525]] The purpose of the bill is to regulate relations resulting from the state registration of a newly created and created merger, merger, division, or transformation of the central executive body as a legal person. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion to the Bill of 11.01.2011, found that, as a result of the first reading of the draft, it was appropriate to revert to further work taking into account the comments and suggestions made. Having considered and discussed the bill, the members of the committee adopted a decision on the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons, submitted by the National Deputy of Gorbatyuk, to submit to the Supreme Council and to propose a session hall to accept it as a basis. [[on the specificity of the State registration of central executive authorities]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues who insist on making this statement, please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Odarchenko, Faction “BUT – Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u50	My fellow Members, I just want to focus your attention on the fact that the President, more than a month ago, has declared administrative reform, talked about the reduction that will take place in our central government, which has been widely shown on television. And today we see in this bill that essentially this is a matter of settling the legal person's presence in two or one-and-a-half months is settled through the submission of the bill to the Ukrainian people's deputies. This is not to be the result of this reform or the thoughtfulness of this reform that it is in such depth that it must be adjusted by regular deputies from the Supreme Council and help the President to resolve the issues that he has put forward throughout Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u51	Deputies are responsible for everything, so we have to do everything. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons (on the specificity of the State Registration of Central Executive Authorities). Registration number 7525. Please vote. [[17:00:13]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am introducing to your consideration a draft decree to mark the 75th anniversary of the creation of the National Research Centre of the Institute of Cardiology of the Academy of Sciences of M.D. Strazeska, the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, and 125th anniversary of the birth of the Academy of Sciences of M.D. Strazesca. There is a suggestion to deal with this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[17:00:56]] For 243 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Valentin Grigorovich Matviev. The committee will be chaired by the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the anniversary dates of the public of Ukraine and other states will be celebrated this year. In this regard, we have made this legislative act, the authors of this draft decree, for consideration by the Supreme Council. It should be emphasized that for more than 70 years, the National Institute of Cardiology, called M.D. Strazeska, has been providing modern help to patients with the most common diseases of the bloodstream system: myocardial infarction, heart rhythm disorder, heart failure, arterial hypertension, etc. I'd like to draw your attention, dear colleagues, to the fact that today the level of vulnerability to these diseases among the population of Ukraine remains fairly and quite high. In Ukraine, some 500,000 people die each year, and think about this figure! In the overall mortality pattern in our country, the mortality rate from cardiovascular diseases is about 64 percent. This is, by the way, the highest score in the world. As we can see, the fight against cardiovascular diseases remains one of the most important tasks of public health policy. In this regard, in September of this year, it is proposed that a national convention of cardiologists be held at a national level, with the participation of scientists known in this medical field, earlier, more than 20 countries of the world with wide public awareness, of course, of its work in the media. Taking into account, in general, the extremely social political significance of the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u53	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u54	Thank you. the importance of the health problem and its socio-economic consequences for the security and further development of the State, the draft decision proposes to take steps to implement a number of issues related to the strengthening of the prevention of blood circulation and the allocation of implementation, I stress, in the light of the implementation of the State budget in the first quarter of this year, the necessary funds to strengthen the material and technical base of the scientific centre – the acquisition of medical equipment for magnetic resonance tomography, which will allow for a significant improvement in the differential diagnosis of cardiovascular diseases. Please, Your Honor, back up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u55	Thank you. And, Volodymyr Alexanderovich Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u56	Dear colleagues! Honourable Parliamentarians of Ukraine! By supporting what my colleague Matthew said, I would like to take another, as it were, niche. Because we're still talking about what we're going to celebrate is the anniversary of the great Ukrainian surgeon Mikolia Strazeska. I want to remind our radio audience that this man was born in Odessa. He graduated from Kyiv Medical University, and he took up an incredibly interesting niche, even at the time -- cardiovascular diseases. I've been doing this my whole life. I would like to point out that during the war, he was engaged in literally "black" this kind of work -- healing the wounds of our wounded fighters on the front. And he did it pretty well. It is also of interest that he worked in Leningrad, Petrograd, under the same Paul’s direction, yes, Paul’s, yes, Paul’s. Interestingly, Maria Zankovetska was treated with Mikhailo Kotzubinski. And I want to remind you who read Bulgakov, that's what Bormental's foregleam is written out of this great Ukrainian scientist and doctor. What he founded the institution we have today in Ukraine is also a colossal feat. He was marked with very high rewards at that time. And another single detail is the name of the noble, unique nobility of this man. When his partner with whom they worked together – Vasilenko, when he was illegally accused in this group of so-called so-called, so, doctors, you know, I won't stop at this for long, it's very interesting that he was summoned to Moscow, he came back from there literally crushed because he was forced to betray his comrade. And I must stress, literally a few days later, he died, so deeply shocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u57	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u58	Such a deep shock was the man’s conscience. That's why I'm convinced that we need to celebrate at the national level and his Jubilee and the Jubilee of the medical institution that he established, and which today is in the face of massive cardiovascular diseases that are essential today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u60	Is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u61	Please sign up. Well, there are those who would like to make a statement on this question. Please, Zarubinsky Oleg, then Oleg Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u62	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I think everyone should thank the initiators of this bill, this decree. It is so common that political upheavals, political processes somehow separate us from what should be, not political, but the human moral interest and moral understanding of their commitment to those who have done much for our country, to society, to the people. And the fact that the Academy of Strasbourg is one of the highlights of Ukrainian medical thinking and of world medical thinking and medical practice is a fact. I personally know many of today's academics, outstanding Ukrainian academics, who were postgraduates to Professor Stražesk, who gave him the way, the way to great science, the way to great medicine. Once again, I want to say that the drafters of the bill are very good for initiating it. Our faction will support the draft of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u63	Sergey Shevchuk, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u64	Thank you. The “BUT – “Fatherland” faction will definitely vote in favour of this decree. I wanted such dates for medical institutions, for medical people, for Ukrainian scientists, to be increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u65	Yes. Dear colleagues, from the faction of one minute. Ivan Hare, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u66	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. We're going to vote for this decision and there's not much to say here, but I want to take this opportunity to address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and the national deputies of Ukraine. We don't have a decision that gives us a total list of very important events for our nation. This year, for example, we have 175 years of hydrometeorological service in Ukraine. In the Luhansk region, a metrology station was established in 1836 and we cannot celebrate all of this until it is resolved. So I propose not to rule on a particular event, but finally to make a general decision listing these events so that we can accept them, and people could prepare to mark these events. Otherwise we'll just, well, we'll get stuck and we'll offend a lot of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. I have to say that this is a very correct observation and a proposal that came out of our colleague's mouth. For one year, we need to determine the memorial dates of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that will be marked at the national level. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that when this question was discussed in the session room, you were gone because you left the session room, and I didn't have any support. I persuaded the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the part that remained, and there was no one to back me up. So let's do it. Ladies and gentlemen, we now proceed to the vote of the draft decree. I propose, thanks to the authors for their determination, that we clarify something to make it imperative, not to ask and beg. The Supreme Council is the country's highest legislative authority, so the proposal. I'll read it. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should develop measures to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the National Scientific Centre of the Institute of Cardiology of the Academy of Sciences of M.D. Strazeska, the Academy of Medical Sciences and 125th anniversary of the birth of the Academy of Sciences of Strasbourg. Perform a comprehensive analysis of the implementation of the State Programme for the Prevention and Treatment of Cardiovascular and Vascular Diseases for 2006-2010 and the development of urgent practical measures for the further enhancement of prevention and treatment of arterial hypertension in Ukraine. To hold the National Cardiologists Congress in September 2011, with the participation of world-renowned cardiologists. As a result of the implementation of the State Budget in the first quarter of this year, allocate the necessary funds to strengthen the material and technical base of the National Science Centre, the Institute of Cardiology of the Academy of Sciences of M.D. Strazeska, of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, in particular for the acquisition of medical equipment, magnetic resonance imaging and renovation of the premises of the facility. The National Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine to organize thematic television and radio programmes on health issues, to increase the fight against cardiovascular diseases among the population, to provide comprehensive media coverage for the marking of these jubilees, to prepare broadcasts on outstanding scientists, and to provide scientific medical teams working in the field of cardiology. The Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, undertake information and prevention measures on the treatment of diseases of blood circulation among the population. To the National Bank of Ukraine, release the coins in connection with these dates. And this decision takes effect from the day it was published. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u68	I'm voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft decision that I've just outlined. [[Registration number 7540]] Please vote. [[17:13:39]] For 336 Decision taken. I mean, the ruling was passed. At the same time, I ask the secretariat to send out a draft decree on the factions for the commemoration of the anniversary dates in 2011, and I would ask each faction, if not accepted, or any other historical figure, to simply offer it as braces. Anything that will not provoke political opposition there, we will vote and thus normalize the problem. Vladimir Yavorowski for this reason, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u69	Dear colleagues. Vladimir Yavorowski. It's a really huge misunderstanding that we've actually broken down this general list under some kind of political passion. The committee has been addressing both the Supreme Council head for a long time, and to you, let's really go this way: there is a list, the same list is not invented and is not drawn from the finger on the committee or Vladimir Yavorowski, these are your proposals. Depends on. At times, this has to do with the political views of the same MP, but it is his right to submit one or the other. One or the other offer. Come on, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if we may not succeed this week, from the new session, literally in the early days, give your proposals again so that we don't do this day's work, so that we can determine this whole jubilee policy for the rest of the next year, and then everything will be in place. The government will know what kind of Jubilee to celebrate, and everything will be in place. That's exactly what I'm proposing. If someone is not qualified and you do not vote for a certain name, then let it remain on your conscience, but the list should be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm back. The Secretariat sends out a draft decree through factions, each faction looks at and presents its own visions, which are the dates that the figures are unacceptable. All that remains is we vote, and then on every specific date, we vote separately, that is, what will be put to the parentheses. And I think at the beginning of the next session, let's try to get back to that angle before we look at this problem. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending Chapter XI of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on State Procurement. [[on the provision of uninterrupted food in the armed forces and educational institutions]] [[Registration number 7542]] The suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[17:16:34]] For 236 Decision taken. Reporter and co-rapporteur of Platników Alexei Vitaliyovich. Four minutes, please. And Osaka will be speaking from the committee? Please, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u71	Dear Head, honourable national MPs, the purpose of this bill is to unlock the purchase of purchases by customers that ensure the proper feeding conditions of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, as well as children in schools, vocational and technical schools, other educational institutions that are in full state custody. Thus, due to the late adoption of the State Budget for the current year, no tenders have been made, no food contracts have been stolen, or food supplies have been stolen since January of this year. Therefore, the bill proposes to continue until March 31, 2011, that is, to continue to function until the end of the first quarter of this year, precisely the structures that have functioned before. It's such a complicated bill, but it's going to let the situation be unlocked, and it's going to let, well, do the capabilities that will provide both Ukrainian armies with food, and provide children who are also in full national detention with adequate food. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u72	Thank you. Sergey Osika, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u73	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee has also considered this issue, given that it needs to be decided immediately, because it is about feeding our boys and our children and proposing to vote on it in the first reading and in general, taking into account two details. They are small and easy to read. The first clarification. In paragraph 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by 2009. This is explained by the fact that the winners should be with, as it were, a fresh set. In article 2, paragraph 2, the words “military parts, there, educational institutions and so on” to replace the words “transmit” with the words “clear and clear” as follows, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. That's it, actually. Here's three lines, that's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, please sign up to explain your reasoning. Names of the national MPs, please. Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u75	Thank you. A very important bill. Indeed, it is a very difficult procedure for us to make these purchases. I would just like to point out that it would be important to look at such a bill anyway and fill it not only with a question and a problem that Mr. Osik and Mr. Plotnikov have already expressed. We have a whole range of categories, such as student feeding, purchasing for higher education, buying a state agrarian. I'm sorry, buying an agrarian fund when it comes to solving the issue of purchasing crops from our agricultural producers. So, of course, given the need to urgently resolve this issue, we will support it, and I will personally support its adoption today, but maybe in some other bill you would have to take into account the positions that I just sounded. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u76	Thank you. Who else insists on the performance? You don't? Then, honourable colleagues, there is good reason to put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis and for the whole draft law amending Chapter 11 of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on State Procurement. [[on the provision of uninterrupted food in the Armed Forces and educational institutions]] With the clarifications offered by the committee. With these clarifications, I put the vote on the basis and generally as a law. Please vote. [[17:21:56]] For the 250. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, there is such a proposal that we will now consider another bill from the same line, and then the big bill has not been reviewed, it has been postponed, it has been amended, because there are many observations. I am now announcing a draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on the purchase of goods and services in the field of natural monopolies and adjacent markets]] [[Registration number 7502]] The reporter is Alexy Plotnikov. There is. Is there an author? Please, the author is People's Deputy Głushchenko. And from the committee, we're going to have the Plotniks. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the rapporteur to consider the matter briefly. Please vote. [[17:23:00]] For 216 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The purpose of the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 2 to the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement is to harmonize legislation, to ensure a stable and reliable functioning of Ukraine's energy sector and to avoid social tension and destabilize the country's energy security. The draft law proposes to remove from the law the activity of purchasing goods, services such as electricity, its transmission and distribution, natural oil gas and services from transport, distribution and supply by making changes to part three and fourth of article 2 of the Act. The implementation of the bill does not require amendments to other laws of Ukraine. The implementation of the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement does not require additional material and other costs. With the adoption of the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement, separate legislation and a stable and reliable functioning of Ukraine's energy sector will be harmonized. And there's more. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, the draft regulation on this law deals with the adoption of the first reading of the preparation before the second reading. I strongly ask, because it is very simple, to vote it immediately and in general, because it is the case. It's only one week, it's questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u78	Thank you. Have a seat. From the committee, Alexy Plonikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u79	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the aim of the adoption of the Law of Ukraine amending article 2 of the Law on State Procurement is to harmonize legislation, to ensure a stable and reliable functioning of Ukraine's energy sector and to prevent social tensions and destabilize the country's energy security. The draft law proposes to remove from the Act activities such as the purchase of goods, services such as electricity, its transmission and distribution, natural and oil gas and services from transport, distribution and supply through changes to parts of the third and parts of the fourth articles of the second law. Given that the winter period is now taking into account that all these objects and objects of this law are essential to the functioning of the national economy, there is a proposal: to support the drafter of the bill and not just accept it. And to adopt this law as a foundation and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u80	Dear colleagues who insist on speaking up, please sign up for this. Yes, no one insists. Then, dear colleagues, I put to the vote the proposal of a committee on acceptance as a basis and in the whole of the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement, on the purchase of goods and services in the field of natural monopolies and adjacent markets. [[Registration number 7502]] Please vote. [[17:26:47]] For the 250. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we are now to consider a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on public procurement. Maybe there's this proposal if you'd supported it, because we've adopted amendments to the State Procurement Act, once they're signed by the President, they'll take effect, then we'd have considered this law, we'd have eliminated those positions that are counted. Now we're going to do the duplication. Then there is the request to postpone the consideration of the bill. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-11-m1.u81	Thank you. In this regard, I am pleased to inform you that we have exhausted the list of issues identified for today. So there is good reason to announce that the evening meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. There will be speeches by the People's Deputies, and then the General Prosecutor's Office's information according to the draft decree that you and I have passed as a decree.
