ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:45]] There were 383 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues, Hayman Oleg Eisikovich and Mhitaryan Nvier Mnazakanovich. Please welcome them and wish them health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on 15 June 2011. Sixteen questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, 3 laws and 1 decree were passed, 1 bill was passed on the basis, 8 bills were rejected. Dear National Deputies! Two factions: the "BUT" faction, the "Fatherland" and the "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" faction, demand a recess to hold consultations on issues of order and declaration. John Grigorovich Kirilenko gives the floor to the statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u2	Respectable Society! The faction authorized me to make the following statement. The second week has passed since the European Parliament adopted a special resolution that gave an impartial, accurate and objective assessment of the political processes that are taking place today in our country, especially with opposition. There are no other actions on the Ukrainian side, apart from the frivolous comments made by the majority members of the majority. Say, please, what happened from your mouth in this room and outside, is it an official position, or is it just a private opinion? In view of the influence of speakers and the silence of other high - ranking persons, there is great suspicion that this is the official position. But then the consequences must be considered responsibly, and they can be quite unforgivable for Ukraine. As they say in the east direction, it's more or less clear, it's called for surrender, we see it and we feel it. The only true path that is declared persistently and daily is to a civilized European family, but there are the main values, human rights, citizens, democracy, freedom of speech, the independence of the judicial system and much more that we only desire. Do we sincerely yearn for the masters? Once again, nothing has changed in a week, the Henprosecutors have not changed the precautionary measure and have not given permission to Julia Timoshenko to participate in the Paris meeting to which she is officially invited. Yuri Lucenko, Anatoly Makarenko, Igor Didenko, and others remain in prison for no reason. Please tell me, how long does it take to implement this basic paragraph of the European Parliament resolution and a few seconds to sign? But he's not here. You hope that in Europe they do not see or know that the MEPs who voted in favour of this resolution and who represent more than 20 sovereign countries will quietly swallow such ignorance, which is very much like humiliation. Don't you think, colleagues, that you are replacing with your own hands such a dreamy and desirable path to Europe and, in fact, home? Because some of you have been there for a long time. But wisely, today is a unique opportunity for you to get out of an absurd situation in which you are driven away. There is neither the spirit of the criminal nor the action of Timoshenko nor Lucenka nor Didenka or Makarenko. So follow the resolution of the European Parliament and show the world that Ukrainian authorities are still capable of upholding the truths of value! He is able to recognize and correct his own mistakes, for who does not err? What's more, you have something to do and you have something to worry about. Just make it quick so it doesn't get sad for the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, for the suggestions and requirements of the application, I ask you to prepare appropriate assignments, and I offer all factions appropriate and responsible conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the issues set out in the schedule for the fourth time. I would like to announce a draft regulation on granting approval for the release by the President of Ukraine of Plaxyuk Jury Aleksandrovitch from the post of Head of the State Committee on Television and Broadcasting of Ukraine and the draft Ordinance on the granting of approval for the appointment of President of Ukraine Kurdinovich as Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting. Bills are registration numbers 8649 and 8650. The reporter is Yuri Miroshnichenko. The committee will be chaired by Andrey Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u4	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! According to paragraph 24 of the first article. 85 Constitutions of Ukraine President of Ukraine submitted an application for the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the release of Yuri Alexandrovich Plaxyuk from office of head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Speech of Ukraine. I'm asking you to support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u5	Thank you. Have a seat. Andrew Shevchenko, please head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u6	Good Health for All! Our committee supported the draft of this ruling, but in our committee discussion, we did not get a clear explanation as to why the head of the Derteradio is now resigning. The versions that have been sounded, especially by our colleague Volodymyr Landik, perhaps some problems that are now in the work of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, perhaps the general situation in the media market, yet we see no reason to dissatisfy the application for resignation. The man wrote this statement, and I think as the Supreme Council, we should thank Yuri Plaxyuk for the work that he has done, as far as possible, on the orders of the Supreme Council, and to satisfy this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, no other questions? I'm voting on a draft decree granting approval for the release by the President of Ukraine of Plaxyuk Jury Alexanderovich from the post of head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8649]] Please vote. [[10:08:51]] For 258. Now, honourable colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ordinance granting approval for the appointment of President Kurdinović of Ukraine as Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 24, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Head of State submitted an application for the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of Alexander Viacheslavovich Kurdinovich as head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine. Please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u9	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Andrew Shevchenko Please, Andrew Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u10	Gentlemen, the committee reviewed the President's application and decided to support it. Why? Two reasons were called. First of all, as a committee, we tend to see, not a political mission, but a professional one. Alexander Kurdinovich served as the first deputy head of the committee, in the last three governments. Secondly, we know that Alexander Kurdinovich worked with us as part of a national social speech initiative, and we hope that this will be a priority in the work of Derteleradio. On what issues we had doubts and those doubts were raised in the committee discussion. First of all, it's the Ukrainian Book Program. We know that under the leadership of the Derterradio today, this program is actually compressed. And there were questions to the possible head about how this program would work in the future. Secondly, it's a topic of social talk. In the Supreme Council there is a registered Social Speech Act, apparently other alternative laws cannot be registered until that law is considered. And we'd like to hear a clear position of the State Department on that bill that the Supreme Council will be considering. We haven't heard a clear "yes" yet, but we've heard the assurances that Derteradio is ready to work with the Supreme Council in this direction. We hope that these doubts, the questions raised, will be taken into account. On behalf of the committee, I'm asking you to support the submission of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u11	No questions, no comments, no suggestions? He's at Kurdinovich's, isn't he? Please, Alexander Viacheslavovich, on the rostrum. Five minutes. Please sign up for the question. Sign up. There's a question mark coming up. Yes, I'd like the names of the National Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u13	One minute, one minute. Take your time. Fomin, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u14	Please give the word to your colleague Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u15	Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Kurdinovich, I know you well, we work together in college. But really, there are questions that we're very, very concerned about today. I can't understand how Ukraine could have gotten rid of, as it were, our Ukrainian voice coming out of Ukraine all over the world. Why is foreign speech closed, and what do you think about it? And the second question. You probably know that my program, which was on air for eight years and it was, you know, very popular, it's closed, and I don't even understand, nobody explained to me why it was closed, absolutely. At the same time, we are talking about freedom of speech and so forth. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u17	Thank you. With regard to the service of innovating the National Radio Company of Ukraine, I can say that, as of today, the National Radio Company of Ukraine is renewing speech on the fourth channel of the World Radio Service of Ukraine. In fact, it has been preserved, and it will be fully formatted from this day forward, both on the satellite and on the Internet. As for the second question of closing the program, we're going to look back, we're going to look back at the issue of your program, and I think that it will find a decent place on the air of the National Radio Company, what's more, today there's actually a shortage of cultural recognition programs, literature programs, art. And I think we're going to be able to move this issue out of place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u18	Zablock, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u19	Thank you. Alexander Viacheslavovich, here you will lead the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine, how do you see the very state policy in the field of electronic media? What do you think is needed to preserve your inheritance? And what do you think needs to be radically changed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. In fact, according to the Committee’s position, State policy in this area is being implemented. And the first important question that we're going to do is we're going to go to social television and we're going to talk. Of course, during this transition, the whole system of state television and radio talk is undergoing complete reform. And in fact, I hope that next year we will start this process much more actively. And we will be able to offer concrete steps to Parliament on reform, and above all, to improve the efficiency of the entire state television and radio broadcasting system.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u21	Ivan Stojko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u22	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass the word to Mrs. Irina Heratchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u23	Irina Heratschenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Alexander, I really think you're well-known in the professional audience. And we will support your candidacy. But in addition to the questions raised by colleagues, this is social language and the book of Ukraine, there are a few other issues that will lie on your shoulders. First. Yesterday, the president of Ukraine participated in the Congress of the Russian - speaking press. Do you not feel that Ukraine today needs to maintain a Ukrainian - language press? And when will such a convention take place? Or in Ukraine, or in other countries, where it also needs to be maintained? The other one. Good project Euronews, good thing it's starting. But today its value is three times what was originally given. And Euronews Ukrainian today will cost more than any Euronews. I want to hear your position here so that there is no part of economics here, I gently say, not just creative. And the third question. Digital speech. A lot of complaints today come from the speakers that the process is going unpublished. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u25	I got it. Thank you for asking. Regarding the Congress of the Russian Press. I'll tell you, this is a very important step. More than 61 countries met in Kiev yesterday, about 300 journalists from foreign countries. And these are journalists and publications that are written in Russian in foreign countries. And we saw yesterday that about 30 percent of all those present were from Ukraine. And even half of them were Ukrainian citizens, who, for some reason or other, are today providing Russian - speaking television and Russian - speaking newspapers and magazines abroad. They have a huge demand for programs in Ukrainian. And yesterday we offered colleagues from other countries the use of our Ukrainian-speaking native product, because today, unfortunately, and they spoke frankly about it, they don't feel the support of Ukraine content, products and so on. And we've discussed concrete ways of exchanging and delivering this Ukrainian language to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u26	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on award. Dear colleagues, there is no discussion. In accordance with the Rules, I remind all of you that if the Supreme Council has a question to a candidate, it asks these questions, no discussion is envisaged. I remind you, Your Honorary Fellows, Article 211 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Article 211, I read to you: an authorized person is represented, a representative of the committee that prepared the matter is speaking, and a person who is proposed to be released or appointed, if necessary, is asked questions; and the decision is still taken by the vote of the Supreme Council by a majority of the Supreme Council. Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to grant approval for the appointment of President of Ukraine, Mr. Alexander Viacheslavovich, as chairman of the State Television Committee and the radio talk of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:19:03]] For 277 Decision taken. Let us welcome Alexander Viacheslavovich and wish him fruitful and responsible work. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you two draft decrees for holding parliamentary hearings. First draft Decision on Parliamentary Hearings on "The State and Prospects for the Development of Religious Relations in Ukraine". [[Registration number 8548]] I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please vote. Yes, the reporter is Vladimir Maruschenko and the co-rapporteur is the head of the Committee of Vladimir Yavorowski. [[10:19:56]] For 219 Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u27	Maruschenko Volodymyr, Party of the Christian Democratic Union, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The harmonization and development of State-faith relations confirm the restoration of spiritual values, the empowerment of the Church in the national development strategy. The Ukrainian State has consistently followed the principle of separating the church from the State and not interfering with the internal affairs of religious organizations, contributing to the improvement and deepening of interfaith understanding, the work of effective mechanisms for the work of the church from that of the State in the humanitarian sphere. The result of such cooperation is to strengthen social understanding, overcome interreligious opposition, and ensure the protection of the rights of believers and religious organizations. While noting the positive gains in state-church relations over the period of independence of the Ukrainian State, it is important to separate the urgent issues of the further development of this set of relationships, which will contribute to their further harmonization and the establishment of cooperation between the Church and the State, and to ensure interfaith and social harmony. This task requires social efforts by public authorities, religious organizations, scientists, and the public. He needs, as the President of Ukraine points out in his annual letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a dialogue between all sides of the "State-Social-Religion Organizations" triangle. Therefore, taking into account the above, it is proposed to hold parliamentary hearings on 5 October 2011 on "The State and the prospects for the development of State religious relations in Ukraine". I would like to point out that the idea of holding such parliamentary hearings is supported by the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches and religious organizations, which includes the leading Churches of Ukraine such as the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate, the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, the Roman Catholic Church, the Protestant Church, and the Jewish and Muslim religious communities representing 95 percent of the religious organizations of Ukraine. I would also like to point out that parliamentary hearings on this subject will take place for the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, which will demonstrate the attention of the higher legislative body and the Ukrainian State as a whole to the development of state church relations and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u28	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee is Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u29	Good morning, Ukraine! Our hearings, our traditional hearings, exist so that we can, in an open and open free regime, listen to all the basic positions that plunge into Ukrainian society and find some consensus in decisions that are taken after hearings. Do you need these hearings that David Zwani, the majority of the NS? The committee discussed the matter. It's absolutely clear that today this is the topic, this problem that exists in society today, it's very painful. This relationship is always difficult and, obviously, civilization has come to the point that the Church is always separate from the state. Although it doesn't always work. In Russia it's very tightly combined, actually. Today, we find certain trends very dangerous for society. Recently, our committee held a field meeting in Preyaslav-Hmelnicki, where very disturbing signals about it came from. That from the Church of Michael, I'm underlining, is the age of the Tenth Church. There is no tithe, and the Michael Church is where the museum and the Preyaslava were located, and the archaeological excavations of the Ancient Russians and so on. In fact, this museum was thrown out of there, instead of one of the confessions -- you know what religion I'm talking about -- was completely captured by this council, and even by us committee members, we weren't allowed into the territory. This is one example. We know what the problems are around the Decathary Church itself today. Because of this, the committee supports and considers it necessary to listen to all positions, and those that are in power today, to stop them in time. We also ask you to support and conduct such hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u30	Please sign in if you are interested. Please, Humenjuk. Kirilenko Viacheslav Get ready for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u31	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u32	Thank you, Your Honor, Oleg Ivanovich. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, I am grateful to Deputy Marouschenk for making such a draft decision, because the question of State-Church relations long needs to be discussed at the highest parliamentary level. You know, there's been a lot of tension in this trend lately, due to certain circumstances that I think are largely being initiated by power itself. Because it often violates the principle of equality of all religions, all religious communities, which are clearly provided for in the Ukrainian Constitution. In particular, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate. There were two parliamentary appeals, a collective one, with more than 100 national deputies from three factions and non-factional ones calling on President Yanukovic to consider this issue -- and to stop any tendency that violates interfaith peace and promotes interfaith opposition in Ukraine. We received answers that unfortunately do not suit us. What's more, there's a problem that's been acute lately -- the problem with the foundations of the Decade Church -- when one of the religions, in fact, wants to put a cult building there in a one-sided order, and that's what the Kyiv community is up against, and a huge number of intellectuals, and just public activists all over Ukraine. And this issue needs to be addressed in Parliamentary hearings, discussed and recorded in our decision. This is a recent attack by unknown persons against the Holy Church of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate in Kiev. The believers stood up for their council. But again, where did the roots of this aggressive attitude toward this Ukrainian church come from? I think there's more to the conclusion here than anything else. As an MP, I appealed to the prosecution and the Kiev authorities to investigate the incident. Generally speaking, such hearings will be very useful, and they need to be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u33	Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u34	Mikhaylo Kosov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Reforms and Order. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind everyone here that the issue of State-Church ratios has been very actively discussed at the Round Tables of the previous years, organized by the Alexander Razumkov Center. I took part in these discussions, and I also want to remind you that they resulted in the production of the doctrine of state-church relations in Ukraine. The concept, the text of this concept in the Supreme Council of the Fourth Call, was put into the agenda, but it did not find support and we did not discuss it. In addition to the acute pressing problems that my colleagues spoke about, there are many other purely legislative problems in Ukraine that we should have come up with as a result of these hearings. For example, in many states, the legal person is not a community, as we do under the Freedom of Conscience Act, but a church itself. What to do with that cult property, such as the sacral assignment that is kept in archives and museums, and much more, say, what is relevant. Such discussions would result in the adoption of appropriate legal standards, so the relevance of such hearings is great.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u35	Just a minute. Factions that didn't come in one minute. Taras Cranville, then Baldwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Unfortunately, in the absolute majority of the performances that were, were dominated by certain conflicting nuances, which probably deserved more "in different ways." And in this case, our parliamentary group insists that we really need to hold those parliamentary hearings, absolutely out of regular responsibilities. The regulation gives us instructions that parliamentary hearings are held when there are serious irregularities in legislation, where a public voice needs to be heard, where legislators and experts need to be misled. We have very poorly regulated the rights of religions, the ratio of the church to the state, the churches and education. And in this regard, we need these hearings to really, legally regulate the relationship, to work out the relationship, to work out the principles on which the new legislation will be made. So a group of MPs called for reform for the future to support all of these hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u37	Baldirev Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! 20 years of our country's independence and throughout this time we have seen as top officials of the State, who? President Kravchuk, President of Kuchma, President Yushchenko has been constantly involved in internal relations. And they didn't just interfere, they made plans for the confessions. Finally, a man came to power who understood that the State and the Church were truly separate from each other. A man who is not involved in internal church relations who does not demonstrate the supposed loyalty and supposed tolerance that all previous presidents have demonstrated for the celebrations of the temples of all confessions, but who does not really understand it. The current President, fortunately, is visiting the temples of only one religion to which he belongs, and there is no doubt that there is another religious situation in the State today, and of course there is a reason to gather and discuss it. And what my colleagues claim there is an inadmissibility of taking temples, yes, of course, the inadmissibility of taking museums must be addressed in a comprehensive manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I'm bringing to your knowledge that on September 21st, we already have one parliamentary hearing on the subject: "The Family Institute in Ukraine. Status, problems and ways to solve them." With regard to the draft decision on parliamentary hearings "Stan and the prospects for the development of State-faith relations in Ukraine", parliamentary hearings are proposed for October 5th. So far, we still have the opportunity to make the right decision for October. I am voting on the proposal for a draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The State and Prospects for the Development of National Religious Relations in Ukraine" on October 5, 2011. [[Registration number 8548]] Please vote. [[10:33:11]] For-103 The decision is not supported. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The Energy Strategy of Ukraine and the Security of Nuclear Energy in the context of the events of the Japanese AES after the earthquake" is under review. [[November 2011]] [[Registration numbers 8349, 8349]] Reporters: National Deputy of Ukraine Zajec Ivan Aleksandrovich and Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:34:05]] For 225 Hare Ivan Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u40	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! With this draft decision, I and Deputys Yuri Kostenko and Jaroslav Jodzik propose to hold parliamentary hearings on energy strategy, the prospects for a nuclear energy complex, and the strengthening of nuclear security. Such hearings are very relevant to our nation. First, the Chernobyl disaster, which has led to serious casualties that have devastated hundreds of thousands of people from their homes, has led to the use of vast territories, destroyed the entire world of the self-sustaining shellfish culture, has become quite a challenge for nuclear energy around the world. And first of all, in the nuclear security area. And mankind has responded to this challenge. The release of new post-Norcobile safety standards required an increase in the cost of building energy blocks more than twice as high as the transfer rate. But it didn't prevent any major accidents, including accidents at Fukushima-1. After the Fukushima, of course, the world's nuclear energy was at the turn of the security challenge, and the world immediately responded to an accident at the atomic station. In particular, the most powerful countries in the world, particularly Germany, have stated about their policy review in the area of nuclear energy, and I am no longer talking about other countries, such as Austria, Switzerland, and others. And we don't have to hide our heads in the sand, we don't have to forget our own, unfortunately, sad experience, Chernobyl. The other one. The answer to the security issue of AES needs a clear vision of the prospects for nuclear energy in general. And we're not all right here. Over the next three years, the planned construction of new AES blocks changed from 22 to 9. It's not a strategy and it's not even planning. And the third. Nuclear energy needs a general view. So, honourable national deputies, we agreed with the committee's proposals both on terms and on the circle of questions. And I urge you to vote in favour of these hearings, because they are very important to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u41	Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security discussed the relevant decision on "Energy strategy and security of nuclear energy in the context of the events at the Japanese AES after the earthquake." May 2011, registration number 8349 from 06.04. In 2011 Authors: Kostenko, Hare, Jojik When I'm on the committee, I can pick out the following things. First. The Committee considers the problem raised in the draft regulation to be relevant and of social interest. Study and legislative regulation are needed. The other one. The deadline set out in the draft regulation is not important, so we have proposed a different deadline for consideration by the committee. Third. On May 18, 2011, a committee hearing entitled "Stand and prospects for legal regulation of the nuclear safety of Ukraine in the context of new challenges" found that parliamentary hearings from this problem were appropriate after receiving the results of stress tests on Ukrainian AES, which were conducted on the basis of the MAGATE recommendations and would be completed no earlier than November of the month. And the fourth. According to the requirements of part one of article 234 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, paragraphs 1-2 of the first article of article 28 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A proposal for parliamentary hearings may be made on the basis of a decision taken by the committee on the relevant issue in the form of a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the above, the committee brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, assisted by the National Deputies, members of the PEC Committee, a decision to hold in November 2011 on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u43	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u44	"The energy strategy of Ukraine and the prospects for Ukraine's nuclear energy complex and the strengthening of nuclear safety in the face of new challenges" registered under number 8349. I can say that we have been productive in working with the authors of this decision and we have a consensus on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, so are we going to make a decision? Then what, are we putting the vote in a row or just one? So you're actually filming yours, are you, Ivan Alexanderovich? Dear colleagues, the authors of the first draft of Decree 8349, reported by Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, are ready to drop the claim for their authorship and support, ready and supported, and ask the Supreme Council to support the amended draft ruling by the committee. Do you understand the offer? Therefore, with this in mind, I ask you to exchange your thoughts. Please sign in. Put the names of the national deputies on the board. Humenjuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". And Viacheslav Kirilenko, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u46	Please give the floor to People’s Deputy Viácheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u47	Thank you, Reverend Oleg Ivanovich. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, this is a very important question brought up by the national deputies John Alexander's Zayj and others, because it bothers people more and more every day. The issue of nuclear safety in general and the prospects here for Ukraine. So I put in a bill on denunciation of the agreement on the construction of the third and fourth power grids at the Hmelnick nuclear power plant. Unfortunately, he was not supported by Parliament, not included in the agenda. Unfortunately, by the way, on the day of the vote and the opposition for political reasons was absent in the hall, so we ourselves were unable to vote in favour of my bill. But I'm aware that if we were in the hall, most of us wouldn't support him. Because there's a bond agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. And someone wants their hands warmed up, and then problems are possible for the Ukrainians. And people feel it. Because this last survey, carried out, for example, by the Center of Razumkova, which is an important and recognized institution, speaks of the following. For building new nuclear power plants in Ukraine 17.6; 69.1 against. For, clarifying the question, the construction of new blocks of the Hmelnick nuclear power plant: "for" – 18.4; "against" – 57.8. In the middle of April this year, that is, it is completely fresh. The public hearings in the villages around this place, the constructions of the new blocks on the Hmelnicka AES showed -- everyone's definitely against it. Why? Because there is a question of enhancing the safety of all nuclear power plants in Ukraine, especially after the events in Japan. And there is a question of convenience for Ukraine of the agreement with the Russian Federation. On the other hand, she ratified most of the deal without a credit agreement, and the Russians are now issuing new, even more cable requirements for Ukraine. And they want this loan that they're going to give us to go more than twice! This is the result of shortsighted politics. All of this needs to be discussed at the hearings! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u48	Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski, “BUT” faction, “Batakščina”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u49	Good morning, Ukraine! Respectable Society! After the Chernobyl disaster, the global Chernobyl disaster not only has the moral right to discuss the safety of stations, primarily the safety of stations, but also the obligation to do so. We just don't have another way out. Apparently today, problems in front of a closed Chernobyl nuclear station seem to be a colossal, colossal number. It's 800 temporary so-called funerals that they've been temporary for 20 years. It's those fuel-filled hangers where they're put from the IV and from the other power grids, and we don't know what to do with it. Today there is a colossal problem and it should also be discussed, with this second cover, the second hat that we want to wear today's sarcophagus that flows through all the holes; it is, of course, the behavior of this dispersed fuel, which did not behave at all as our physicists predicted, and not only our physics, but also the world's physics. But we should keep in mind that we are a nation that has many nuclear stations, God forbid that they work properly. But I'm sure we need to discuss all of these issues, once again, about security, especially after Fukushima. It seemed like such colossal technologies in Japan, but they, as you can see, did not provide complete insurance against this catastrophe. We need to talk about that our nuclear blocks today, of course, are much more reliable, but we just put our hands together and think they're reliable, we don't have a right. So let's say that the crash on the American Hold Island didn't fly into the air of radioactive substances, because there was a double patch, and we had a single one, and that's why it broke it. That's why I'm convinced that we should talk about the level of safety in a normal way, bring it here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u50	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u51	Bring out all these problems. These are national problems, regardless of our political views. We support, the Yulia Tymoshenko Block supports these hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u52	Dear National Deputies! Please, who's there, asshole? Chaplain, I'm sorry, I can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, we discussed this issue at the meeting of the MP. Of course, we support the thesis on what we need, and it is essential to hold such parliamentary hearings. However, the emphasis on these parliamentary hearings is a bit of a surprise. I'm going to talk to you as a nuclear physicist. As a person who worked at nuclear stations, particularly at Chernobyl’s AES, the problem of energy security cannot be addressed solely as a key to ensuring the safety of nuclear stations. Today we are under the supervision of MAGATES. The density or safety of nuclear stations, such as those on VER or RBM blocks, is much higher than 20 or 30 years ago. Clearly, the problem in Japan must be addressed. But energy security is not just an atom, it's hydro-, it's heat-, it's renewable energy sources that are not being used today. So we'd like to take this a little bit wider. The MPs will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u54	I understand you support 8349-d, right? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? There is a vote on the proposal to adopt a draft Supreme Council regulation 8349 on Parliamentary hearings on Ukraine's Energy Strategy and the prospects for a nuclear energy complex and strengthening nuclear safety in the face of new challenges. It is proposed that these parliamentary hearings be held in November 2011, specifying the working date. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please identify yourself. [[10:47:25]] For 104 The decision is not taken. I ask the committee to look again at the argument so that we can then go back to these questions. Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects Unprivatized. [[on the exclusion of individual enterprises from the list]] [[Registration number 8655]] Yes, there goes the vote. [[10:48:21]] For-198 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act on the peculiarities of renting or concession of fuel and energy objects in state ownership. [[Registration number 8632]] Please vote. [[10:48:56]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market. [[on gas undertakings]] [[Registration number 8657]] Please vote. [[10:49:31]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. A motion for inclusion in the agenda of the Sanitation Bank Act shall be put to the vote. [[Registration number 8586]] Please vote. [[10:50:00]] For 201 The decision is not taken. So with regard to the bills that are included in the agenda, I ask the committees to ensure that they are prepared for consideration in the session room. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for consideration a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for certifying ownership of land. [[Registration number 6422]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Valérie Fedorovich Bevezenko. Please, let's quickly go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u55	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Regarding your proposal for a second reading bill prepared by the committee, it should be noted that since December 21, 2010, just five proposals have been made to the committee since the adoption of the bill in the first reading. The reasons for not taking into account the amendments made by the entities of the legislative initiative are given in the comparative table given to you. As a result of the discussion of the draft draft for second reading, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. With regard to the observations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority, it should be noted that their consideration would entail a violation of the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u56	Yes, the honourable national deputies, the amendments. The author of Wonderland, do you insist on her? No, it's not. Jury Carmazin's amendment, 5th. Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist on her? Don't insist. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the procedure for certifying ownership of land. Please vote. [[10:52:37]] For 261 The law is passed. Thank you. I'm announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act. [[concerning the manufacture and circulation of veterinary medicinal products]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Maria Perestenko. Marina. I'm sorry, and I'm sorry. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u57	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, your point of view is the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Veterinary Medicine Act (for manufacturing and circulation of veterinary medicines). The purpose of the bill is to simplify entrepreneurial activities in the field of manufacturing, processing, storage and circulation of veterinary products and reproductive material by reducing the number of duplicate permits. Because the areas of regulation defined in article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of farming and article 50 of the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act are similar. In preparation for the second reading of the bill, proposals and amendments were made to the committee by Ukrainian national deputies Wonderful, Seminoga, and Carmazin. The amendments eliminate legal disagreements between the legislation's rules and the requirements of article 50 of the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act and were fully taken into account. The Committee supported the amended bill and proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider it in a second reading and adopt it as a law, taking into account the reference to the bill of the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on bringing the ministries and other central authorities of the executive branch of its legislation in accordance with this law. Please support this bill, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u58	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! The proposal to adopt a bill in the second reading and generally as a law that takes into account the comments, recommendations of the Legal Office that the reporter has just said about. The bill is to be voted on. [[Registration number 7377]] [[10:55:13]] For 248 The law is passed. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation and operation of farms. Reporter: Prestenko Marina Volodymyrna, head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation and operation of farms is proposed for consideration. [[Registration number 7512]] The draft Ukrainian Law has been prepared with the aim of simplifying the procedure for the registration of farming and reducing the number of documents of a permissive nature. The bill is designed taking into account the proposals of the All-U.S. Society Association of Farmers and Private Landowners of Ukraine. The adoption of this law will simplify the state registration of agricultural holdings and the granting of citizenship to property or land leases for farming from state and municipal property, in accordance with the Ukrainian Land Code. The bill agreed with Minfin, Minyust, Mine Economic Development, a joint representative of the Ukrainian Employers’ Federation. Seven suggestions and amendments were made to the second reading. All suggestions are considered and discussed at the committee meeting. Most of the proposals are rejected as non-conforming to the concept of the bill. Because the goal is to simplify the procedures for the registration of farming and to reduce the number of permits. And all of the proposals made by the People's Deputy Carmazin on agricultural education received at the Agrarian School III-IV level of accreditation, or no less than three years' experience of direct farming in the agricultural sector, which corresponds to the specialization of future farming, make it more difficult to register farming. But they're violating the law in force on the creation of farming by a citizen who's 18 years old. Teaching in a university or a three - year - old experience distances a citizen’s right to create a farm for 3-4 years. And the norm is a three-year experience of direct farming in the agricultural sector, which corresponds to the specialization of future farming, generally limits the farmer's ability in market conditions to change the direction of farming, depending on the current conditions. The conclusion of the General Legal Office is without notice. Therefore, the Committee's proposal is to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the prescribed draft in the second reading and generally as a law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u60	Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the creation and operation of farms. There is no chief legal authority to comment on the bill. Please vote. [[10:58:50]] For 249 The law is passed. I ask the rapporteurs to follow the amendments immediately. Because we're starting to think about the law, it doesn't actually give anything. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the activities of scientific parks is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the Vice-President of the Committee on Science and Education, Davymuk Stepan Antonovich. Please, Stepan Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u61	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of scientific parks, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In December 2010, the Supreme Council was adopted in its first reading. The second reading was discussed in January 2011 and was sent to read again. The second reading was followed by two proposals clarifying the position regarding the rental of state property in the implementation of scientific park projects. In general, the bill had 15 proposals from the national MPs, all taken into account. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. The committee recommends the adoption of a bill as a whole as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u62	Dear National Deputies! The main legal authority for the bill's second reading committee has no comment. All proposals made by national deputies are taken into account. So I'm voting on the second reading proposal and generally as the bill of the Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of scientific parks. [[Registration number 6553]] Please vote. [[11:01:06]] For 256 The law is passed. Thank you. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. [[for Multi-Children]] [[Registration number 8314]] The rapporteur is the secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Andry Mihajlovich Najdionov. Please, Andrei Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, ten amendments were made to the bill by nine Ukrainian national deputies. The committee proposes that six amendments be taken into account, that one amendment be taken into account, that two amendments be partially taken into account, and that one amendment be rejected. The proposed amendment by the Ukrainian national deputy, Tolstenka, is proposed to determine that the inclusion of children in a multi - parent marriage is permitted only if they are deprived of their parental rights or the death of one of the parents. The committee proposes to reject the amendment because this category of families needs state support, which was one of the reasons for the Government's introduction of the bill. At the same time, if the number of such families increases several times, the committee will return to this issue and offer more harsh conditions for families who raise children each marriage. The Committee recommends the adoption of a bill as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the repairs are all accounted for. The Chief Legal Authority expressed thanks to the committee for preparing the bill for the second reading, and there were no comments. There is every reason to put to the vote a proposal for the adoption of the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act for adoption in the second reading and in general as a law. [[for Multi-Children]] Please vote. [[11:03:22]] For 293 The law is passed. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving the provision of assistance to families with children, disadvantaged populations and improving their social protection]] [[Registration number 7488]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Works, Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan. Yes, you can also vote here: everything worked out and there are no comments. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! The essence of the law is that even 18 years of child training continues to be available. They're kids in public schools who are studying. The second position is that the possibility is widening: either the mother receives help for this child, or if one of the parents — the father or the mother — dies gets help from the father. As a result, almost 30 or over 30 comments were submitted by our committee. 22 proposals came from the national deputies, first of all. Of these, 11 are rejected, because they don't comply with this law, 5 are included and 6 are partially counted. So, I don't know, if, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you put up a vote in general, it will make it easier for me to participate. If not, we will follow every observation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine for adoption in the second reading and generally as a law is the subject of voting. [[on improving the provision of assistance to families with children, disadvantaged populations and improving their social protection]] The Legal Authority supports such a question. Please vote. Registration number 7488. [[11:05:37]] For 291 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies, I offer you the draft Law on the Calculation and Technical Inventory of Real Property Objects, which are subject to State registration. The rapporteur is Vice-President of the Economic Policy Committee Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, this bill is presented to you, you have a table. Part of the amendments are not taken into account here, most of the amendments are taken into account in this bill many of them, you were able to see for yourself. In addition, I would like to say that we have the following in support of this law. an ad hoc working group established during its consideration. A number of cities and areas of Ukraine have spoken, have sent collective letters of action from the Councils, there is a decision by the Councils in support of the bill, and there are letters from the mayors and governors of Ukraine. I would like to refer separately to the observations made by the Legal Authority on this bill. Unfortunately, this is the first time I've faced such a poor job, I'd say. The bill, when the bill was drafted by the authors, appeared to have been preceded by another work under another bill, which was called the Personal Rights Registration Act. And you and I adopted it in 2009, and it is in force, pursuant to its Presidential Decree, that a special body has been established under the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, which is already performing its functions. When we finalized this bill in the working group, 2788, we took fully into account the issue of registration of personal rights. The issue of registration of property rights, rental rights, enjoyment and other similar rights, they have already left the BTI and are in the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. That's the first one. Second. We have learned the same thing about Ukraine, unfortunately, that there is such a trend, the transfer of BTI to private hands, and there are already 2 BTIs in Ukraine that are in private hands. That is, this has been the work of historical and archival materials on all buildings, on all facilities in Ukraine, which have been established for many years in the country by many generations of our people, and has been leased or used in private hands, which is absolutely unacceptable and contradictory, including the privatization law. In view of this, we have provided, by amendments to the various colleges, that the BTIs can only be owned by utilities and are not subject to the law on privatization, rental and transfer. I suggest you do some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee, the amendments are no longer necessary, I looked around, and the committee offers to be accepted on second reading and as a whole. True, the Chief Legal Office concluded: "In view of the nature and extent of the necessary development of the project, it would be appropriate to cancel Parliament's decision to adopt the project on the basis and to refer its subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development." In accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, in general, the bill of the draft Law on Accounting and Technical Inventory of Real Property Objects, which are subject to State registration. [[Registration number 2788]] [[11:09:46]] For the 250. The law is passed. I suggest your attention, Your Honor, the draft Act amending article 48 of the Ukrainian Mining Law. [[on social guarantees for mining workers]] [[Registration number 6437]] The rapporteur is Mr. Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich, member of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, today we are reviewing the draft Act amending article 48 of the Mining Act for rereading adopted by the Supreme Council. For everyone to understand, it's about people. [[concerning social security for workers in mining enterprises]] We now have a thousand,621 people working in mines that are closed and drained, and they have been deprived of domestic fuel for more than three years. Therefore, the issue agreed today with the Cabinet of Ministers is a financial burden. We have had a positive outcome, and yesterday, when we consider this law on the Committee on Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, we have considered and voted in favour of the law as a whole, and I ask the people's deputies to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the Chief Legal Authority has called for a draft law without any notice. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 48 of the Mining Law of Ukraine. [[on social guarantees for mining workers]] Please vote. [[11:11:46]] For 287 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we would now like to consider a bill with you to amend some of Ukraine's laws on the order of social protection of the population in the area of observation. [[6713]] However, in view of the fact that the General Legal Office claims that the text of the bill does not meet the requirements of Rule 116 of the Rules, I ask the honourable chairman of the committee to bring it into line. From this point of view, the microphone by Mikolia Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u71	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no direct violation of article 116. In our second reading, we did not change those articles that were adopted in the first reading, and there is no such direct norm. There is an appropriate logic in relation to the Tax Code, with other matters in which the committee made warnings before the adoption of the Tax Code. But the committee still thinks it's possible to consider today and to accept it. This issue is very relevant and has a social resonance in areas where Ukrainian nuclear stations are operating, especially today when the issue becomes even more relevant, in view of recent developments in this area in general in the world, it needs to be considered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u72	Thank you. I propose that, now, the director of the judiciary, the co-workers who accompanied this bill, and the representatives of the committee should hold a meeting and give a final opinion. Then we will consider the matter. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation is being announced in connection with the ratification of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legislative Security is prepared for consideration in a second reading, submitted by President Yanukovic of Ukraine, Victor Fedorovich, of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. The bill was being prepared for consideration in the second reading of the reduced procedure. I would like to remind you that the purpose of the bill is to implement the Ukrainian legislation of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. In the process of drafting the bill for consideration in the second reading, it received 19 proposals from legal entities, 6 of them included, 13 rejected. The reasons for the deviations are given in the table. The text of the bill is in agreement with the representatives of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. The Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill needs further work, but the committee at its meeting considered these observations and disagreed with them. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u74	Dear National Deputies! I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the ratification of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. [[Registration number 8467]] Please vote. [[11:16:13]] For 283 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing the draft Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[Registration number 8191]] Who will report from the committee? Blackmore? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u75	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 15 June 2011, reviewed the observations and proposals that came from subjects of the right to legislative initiative to draft the Ukrainian Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which was adopted on 31 May 2011 as a result of the first reading on the basis and with the commission of the committee to bring it into short-term consideration by Parliament in a second reading. The bill is aimed at legislative settlement of issues concerning the formation of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, its activities and the establishment of powers under the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. A comparative table for a bill containing 166 amendments and proposals from 11 Ukrainian national deputies was prepared by the Committee for Second Reading. According to the amendments and proposals of the committee 139 were taken into account, 2 were taken into account in part, 2 were taken into account in editorial terms, and 23 were rejected. The committee also took into account most of the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the form of proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the committee to the table. In the course of the discussion, members of the committee were asked to contact the Committee on Legal Policy about the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee concluded that the provisions of Ukraine’s draft Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crime were in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. Bill No. 8191, prepared by the Committee for Second Reading, was prepared with comments by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft Ukrainian Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea as a result of the second reading of the second reading to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who insists on amendments that are unaccounted for? Because most of them, I see, are accounted for. Roman Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u77	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like you to hear me now. At 11 o’clock yesterday evening, 23: 00 p.m., the text of the Comparative Table was missing, and the conclusion of the legal regime was missing. I now have an open page for this project: The comparative table is missing, the conclusion of the legal regime is missing. I insist that we follow the Rules, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I am not talking about what is needed there, as provided for in the Rules, in 7 days, to enable members to get to know the text. I'm seriously trying to work with the texts, which is evidence of this information that I just announced. I can't make the right decision about this project, I don't see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u78	Thank you. I think that the honourable colleagues, that the observation then is absolutely correct, because we were working on a reduced procedure, but nevertheless, it doesn't mean that MPs can't get to know these documents. I would ask both the legal authorities and the committee to draw the right conclusions from the logical and objective observation of our fellow national MP. I would like to ask you and me to help each other make the right decision. Who still insists on their amendments that have not been taken into account? You don't? I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, registration number 8191. Please vote. [[11:21:45]] For 254 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on the Specialities of State Property Management in the Defence and Industrial Complex is under review. At the same time, I'm informing you, dear colleagues, about the situation surrounding this bill. The draft Law on the characteristics of the management of public property in the defence and industrial complex was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted as a basis 13. June 3rd. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine set short deadlines for preparing for the second reading, or seven days short. At the same time, and by the decision of the Conciliation Council of Deputies, the bill was to be prepared by the Committee for Review and the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 16. At the same time, a letter from the committee came that a bill had not been considered at the committee meeting. And so it can be noted that the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this matter has not been carried out. Who from the committee will provide information on this? Then if there is no one on the committee, I have to put a decision to the vote. The decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the Law is final in the first reading. I would like to ask your attention, fellow Members, to vote on the adoption of the draft Law on the Specialities of Public Property Management in the Defence and Industrial Complex in the first reading edition. Registration number 8462, please vote. [[11:24:01]] For 237 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! Draft law, proposed to your mind, draft amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the improvement of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Tax Code]] Dear colleagues! You know, it's a long-suffering bill, very sensitive and responsible, the committee generalizes proposals that are now coming from entrepreneurial circles and have recently come up with a number of draft laws, including from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and from entities of the law of the legislative initiative. And there's a desire, a will and a desire to come up with one unified draft law, a systemic nature that meets the moods and needs and the realities of society. In this regard, the committee requests that we postpone consideration of this law to the next plenary week so that we can go out on a unified document. So I have a request, my honourable colleagues, to put to the vote a motion to postpone the consideration of the draft Law for the next plenary week - Thursday. [[Registration number 8217]] It'll be, if I'm not mistaken, July 7. Please vote. [[11:25:39]] For-300 The decision to postpone consideration of the draft law has been adopted. Honorable National MPs. That's a very good point. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider the laws that the President of Ukraine has made his remarks, i.e. he has applied the veto. The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Liability for Forest Pollution, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 2.06.2011, has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovic, and the co-rapporteur of the Committee on the Legislative Security of Lejschenko Vladimir Aleksijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u79	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences propose to strengthen administrative responsibility for offences provided for in article 72 — damage to forests by sewage, chemical substances, oil and petroleum products, harmful wastes, wastes, and article 73. [[B in m in s a l in]] 73rd is a waste dump. This introduces administrative responsibility for alleged offences against citizens in the form of a fine of between 10 and 30 untaxed minimum citizens' income for officials from 30 to 50 untaxed minimum citizens' income. Thus, the law provides for the same administrative responsibility, the same amounts of fines for offences with different degrees of social damage, that for damage to the forest, such as chemicals, oil, petroleum products, harmful wastes, waste disposal, although it is less socially dangerous. Such an approach does not conform to the principle of justice as part of the constitutional principle of the rule of law, expressed in particular in the equal legal scope of conduct and in the proportionality of the legal responsibility of an offence committed in the court’s determination of a more mild penalty and cannot be supported. [[Decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 2 November 2004]] Under these circumstances, the Head of State considers the second paragraph of Section 2 of the Act to be necessary: "It entails imposing a fine on citizens from 5 to 10 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes and on officials from 10 to 20 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes." In addition, in connection with the proposed law, an increase in the minimum fine of 10 non-taxed minimum citizens' incomes is provided for administrative offences under article 73 of the Code of Administrative Offences, and other articles of the Code, which refer to the article in question. This applies to articles 241, 242-1, 258 of the Code, under which the officials of the relevant authorized public authorities have the right to impose a fine on the spot on a fixed scale: up to 3 untaxed minimum rates of income for citizens. For offences provided for in article 73 of the Code. In connection with this chapter and the law under consideration, the President of Ukraine proposes that the following new paragraphs be added: “In part three of article 241, part three of article 242-1, in part one of article 258, delete the figure “73”. [[with label 1]] In view of what has been said, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the proposed law. Thank you for your attention. Please support the President's remarks.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u80	Thank you. Secretary of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement, Vladimir Alexiyovich Lechchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legislative Security and Law Protection has considered proposals submitted by the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Liability for Forest Pollution, registration number 6141. But he thinks they're right. The president noted that the damage was caused in the event of damage to the forest by liquefied waters, chemicals, oil and petroleum products, harmful wastes and wastes, article 72 of the Code of Administrative Offences is much greater than the dumping of the forest simply by waste, garbage, article 73 of the Code. Therefore, the amount of fines for the disposal of citizens of household waste should be smaller than the amount of damage to the forest by harmful substances. In support of the proposal to increase liability for damage and deforestation, the president noted that by amending article 73 of the Code on Increases in fines. It is also necessary to amend articles 241, 242.1, 258 of this Code in order to deprive certain categories of persons of their right to fine up to 3 untaxed minimum incomes on the spot. Since the amount of fines offered in the law is increased by 10 times or more than is currently available. At its meeting, the Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the proposals of the President of Ukraine and to adopt the Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences to increase liability for forest pollution in the new edition. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's vote on the amendments that the committee has taken into account, but we must support the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and then put to the vote as a whole in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. I bet on the vote of Amendment 1 of the President of Ukraine, which is counted by the Committee. Please vote. [[11:33:26]] For 253 Correction accepted. I'm betting on the vote of the President of Ukraine's 2nd amendment, which is counted by the committee. Please vote. [[11:33:46]] For 256 Correction counted. I am betting on a vote on the adoption of the law in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6141]] Please vote. [[11:34:16]] For 308. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I am announcing the Ukrainian Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. [[of April 29, 2011]] [[Registration number 7024]] The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich. The correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Romanyuk Mikopovich. Please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u83	Dear Head, honourable deputies! The President of Ukraine reviewed the Ukrainian Law on the provision of commercial circulation of natural gas, which came to be signed, and applied the veto to it, bringing it back to Parliament with his proposals. The reason for this decision is that since the submission of the law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine before its adoption, some changes have taken place in the legislation of Ukraine. But they were not fully taken into account by the people’s deputies when preparing the document for consideration. Also, according to the head of state, the introduction of certain provisions of the law could narrow Ukraine’s citizens’ right to adequate energy security. In particular, the law does not fully address the responsibility of gas distribution organizations for the timely installation of gas accounting devices for Ukrainian citizens. The President of Ukraine cannot accept that this responsibility rests on consumers, which violates the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens. Yes, it is established by law that the supply of natural gas is made subject to its commercial accounting for consumers. For others than the population, this commercial bill has been introduced by law since April 1, 2011. The refusal of natural persons — entrepreneurs and legal persons — from the establishment of natural gas nodes to 1 April 2011 is the basis for the termination of contracts for the supply and distribution of natural gas. In this regard, the law obliges the relevant operators to ensure that gas counters are installed for the designated consumers by a specified date. And stop from this date of supply and distribution of natural gas if you refuse to set up the counters. At the same time, the date of adoption of the law is April 7, 2011. The date of validity of the said positions is the day of publication of the law. Thus, the law provides for the application of its rules on the commercial accounting of natural gas, including the cessation of the supply or distribution of natural gas to designated consumers if they refuse to establish gas counters to relationships that have arisen prior to the entry into force of this law. The president points out that this is not in line with defined articles 58 and 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the principles of the law in time. Also, according to the President of Ukraine, the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of part 1 of article 6, adopted by the law, which require natural gas operators to supply the regulated tariff and/or distribution in the relevant territory, to ensure that gas meters are installed for the population and to stop these consumers from installing counters, may limit the existing rights and freedoms of citizens. In order to avoid this, the President of Ukraine proposes that paragraph 1 (a) of part 1 of the first article 6 of the Act should be supplemented by a paragraph: “In the absence of a settlement in the terms indicated in this sub-paragraph, the gas counters from the wine of the natural gas operators in the respective territory are prohibited from ending the distribution of natural gas to such consumers. And his accounting until the gas counters are installed is done in accordance with the consumption standards established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." The President points out that, according to the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Principles Act of 1 January 2012, the function of natural gas distribution is separated from its supply functions. Thus, natural gas will be distributed to natural monopolies and natural gas will be supplied on competitive grounds. In view of the state’s regulation of natural monopolies, the President of Ukraine believes that the obligation to establish gas counters should be placed solely on gas distribution enterprises that are subject to natural monopolies. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the relevant administrations of the President's Administration point out that these remarks by the President are extremely important in terms of the interests of Ukrainian citizens and ensuring the realization of their constitutional rights. The President of Ukraine also proposes to expand sources of funding for jobs with population gas counters at the expense of others than those defined in article 3, paragraph 1, of the law. The Head of State also proposes that the words “and licences” should be deleted from the third part of article 4, paragraph 3, as such activities are not subject to licensing under article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity and article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market. The President of Ukraine proposes the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas, taking into account the comments and suggestions made. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine, as a guarantor of the Constitution, of human rights and freedoms, and of a citizen, by signing those laws that are passed by the Supreme Council, is primarily analysing to uphold the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen in any act adopted by any authority of state, and especially when it comes to laws, since he has the right to return bills to the Supreme Council with observations. The bill, respected colleagues, contains both meaningful comments related to the laws we have passed and to the unconstitutionality of individual provisions. I would ask all of us to support the President's remarks and to adopt this necessary and important law for the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u84	Thank you. Yes, Romanyuk Mikola Prokopovich. Please, let's vote now, obviously.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u85	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! On 29 April 2011, the President of Ukraine returned the Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act, which was adopted by the Supreme Council on 7 April 2011 with his proposals for reconsideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the proposals made by the President of Ukraine for an adopted law are valid and suggests that they be taken into account in a re-examination. The president made six comments and suggestions. At its meeting on June 1, 2011, the Committee reviewed the President's proposals for legislation and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council take them into account. So please take into account all the President's proposals and adopt the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u86	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Six of the President's proposals are taken into account, and we need to confirm them by voting in the session room. More, huh? 16 suggestions. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the first president of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:44:06]] For 249 Decision taken. I'll bet the vote on the second sentence. Please vote. [[11:44:24]] For 252 Decision taken. I'll bet the vote on the president's third proposal. Please vote. [[11:44:42]] For 252 A decision has been made. The fourth proposal by the President of Ukraine is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:45:01]] For 253 Copy that. I'm betting on a fifth sentence. Please vote. [[11:45:19]] For 255 Copy that. I'll bet you a sixth sentence. Please vote. [[11:45:37]] For 254 Copy that. I'm betting on voting on the President's seventh proposal. Please vote. [[11:45:56]] For 254 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote of the President of Ukraine's eighth proposal. Please vote. [[11:46:14]] For 256 Copy that. I'm betting on the vote on the ninth proposal. Please vote. [[11:46:32]] For 258. Copy that. I'll bet the vote on the tenth sentence. Please vote. [[11:46:49]] For 258. Copy that. I'm betting on the vote on the eleventh proposal. Please vote. [[11:47:07]] For 256 Copy that. I'll bet you a vote on the 12th. Please vote. [[11:47:24]] For 258. Copy that. I'll bet you a vote on the thirteenth sentence. Please vote. [[11:47:41]] For 258. Copy that. I'll bet you a vote on the 14th proposal. Please vote. [[11:47:58]] For 255 Copy that. I'm betting on the 15th vote. Vote. [[11:48:15.]] For 258. Copy that. I'll bet you a vote on the sixteenth sentence. Vote. All of it. [[11:48:33]] For 259. Copy that. I'm betting on a motion for adoption of the law in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Registration number 7024. Please vote. [[11:48:56]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to adopt a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Supreme Council's Order on Heads, First Deputys, Undersecretaries, Secretaries and so on, on the election of our colleagues who recently joined the Supreme Council as members of the Committees, Committees. This is: Baranova-Mohort Sergija Mikolaajovich, member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, Education and Science, and Pachesuka Sergija Nikonovič, member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications. The corresponding quotas allow the decision to be taken, there is an appropriate draft decision. Do you mind if I put it to the vote? I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of members of the Committees of Baranova-Mohort Sergio Mikolaiovich and Pachesukov Sergey Nikonović. [[Registration number 8680]] Please vote. [[11:50:11]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! In preparation for the signing of the text adopted on 14 June 2011 by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On the State Budget for Ukraine 2011" at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues revealed the inconsistencies that are proposed to be removed in accordance with article 131 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What are you talking about? The changes proposed in Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2011 Act are proposed to be consistent with the changes envisaged in article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2011 which uses the new name of the State Agency for Investment and the administration of Ukraine's national projects, which is the right-holder of the aforementioned investment and development agency, corresponding to the decrees of the President of Ukraine of 9 December 2010 and of 12 May 2011. [[on budgetary allocations to the State Investment and Development Agency of Ukraine]] What are you talking about? It's just that the Cabinet of Ministers gave an old name for an institution that doesn't match the new definition of the central authorities of executive power. We need to remove these differences. I'm putting her to the vote on this motion, please vote. [[11:52:04]] For 230 Decision taken. Kirilo Kulikov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u87	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you very much, colleagues. This is a question of another type, the question of how the budget committee works, i.e. the submission, the bill on amending the budget for 14 billion dollars. This is a very large amount that we decide in half an hour. Many countries have been resolving these issues for years, and we are deciding 14 billion, and such errors are being stolen into the bill. Because someone needed the money to redistribute this budget. We're going to be looking at pension reform today. I can say that out of the 14 billion that have been distributed, how less than a third can be retired, and not to build forest roads in hunting grounds, what happened on the budget committee is unfortunately happening today at every meeting of the budget committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u88	Thank you. I think it's not a budget committee issue for the sake of justice, it's a problem for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should obviously know what the central authorities of executive power are called, and not so many of them can be counted on the fingers of two hands, not to be distracted. So I think we need to improve the committee's work. With regard to pension reform, we obviously need such a pension reform, such an organization of life, so that the state budget does not finance pensions, but according to what is being done around the world. And 20 percent of GDP can't retire, it doesn't exist around the world, so it's not okay for us in the pension system. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill, we've moved it back to the first reading, let's take a quick look at it, and we'll take a break. Please consider this bill as a simplified procedure. [[Registration number 8545]] Please vote. [[11:54:22]] For 228 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Vladislav Lukyanov, the first deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u89	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The bill proposes to amend the specific rules of the Budget Code. In particular, regarding the provision of a subsidy from the local budget. from the State Budget to local budgets for construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of streets and roads of municipal property at locations at the expense of 14.6 per cent of the revenue of the State Budget Special Fund, which is the source of financing for road works with the definition of a transparent distribution mechanism between the local budget and the orderly recalculation. Enhancing the access of local self-governance authorities to the inclusion of cheap credit resources in external markets. Thus, the implementation of the bill will contribute to investment for regional development, upgrading local infrastructure, increasing the share of local budget revenues and targeting investment costs, properly financing maintenance and construction of public roads. The bill also amends certain provisions of the Rules of the Supreme Council, including procedures related to the implementation of the budgetary process and to ensure that the rules of the Supreme Council and the Budget Code are reconciled. In view of the possibility of proposed changes, the proposed bill requires consideration and adoption at the current session of the Supreme Council, which will enable it to be taken into account when the budget is budgeted for 2012. On the basis of the consideration of the amended draft draft, the Committee on Budget Issues approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft bill be adopted on the basis of a committee-worked bill and that the Committee on Budget Issues be entrusted with its work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u90	Finish it, finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u91	Instruct the committee to rework it for a second reading with a shorter period. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u92	Yes, have a seat, please. I take it, Vladislav, that you're both from the committee and from the authors, right? Yes, please record who wants to participate in the discussion. Yes. Cowchuck Basil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u93	I give the word to Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u94	Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to an extremely important bill. Let me remind you that when we looked at it in the first reading and sent it back to re-reading, the Head of the Supreme Council pointed out that the only thing left in the Ukrainian people, more specifically in Parliament, is the right to influence the adoption of the budget and that this bill is taken away from us. We've been given a complete project, and frankly, I haven't found any work done here as well as I haven't found the conclusion of the Science and Experimental Authority. I will brief you on what awaits us after this bill. Once the budget is adopted in the first reading and after the first, second reading, usually as you know, each committee considers the budget. In the field of responsibility, the committee directs proposals to a comparative table and deputies. And we, accordingly, have a partial impact on budgeting. I'll read you what we're offered. At the same time, until the second reading of the proposals made by national deputies and committees to the draft State Budget Act, prepared for the third reading, no consideration shall be given. If the issue of third reading arises, the same norm, the proposals of committees and national deputies for third readings are not considered. I have a question, then what is being considered? Then why committees and deputies in the budget system if our proposals are not considered between the first and the second and the third readings. Now there is a rule in which some government officials come and look after the deputies, meaning the statutes, to the budget committee. What will they be watching? There are deputies who look at the budget, propose and so forth, invite a minister of finance or a deputy. That he no longer has confidence in the members of the budget committee who will watch from the government as the budget changes unfold. I believe that this is a flagrant violation of the rights of the Supreme Council, committees and people's deputies when they adopt the most important budget document. Therefore, I believe that the Committee has failed to carry out the task of the Supreme Council when we said in furthering the amendment to the Rules that limit the rights of the Supreme Council in part of the adoption of the budget. I believe that in this way we cannot vote on this bill, because there is no remaining Parliament as such in the budgetary process at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u96	Ivan Popescu, Party of Regions. Behind him is Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u97	Thank you. The sand. Please pass the word to Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u98	Please, Vladislav Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u99	I would like to point out that, on the other hand, the drafting of the bill takes into account all the comments made on the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, in particular the procedural possibility of fully discussing and voting the proposals of deputies to the State Budget Bill, when it is considered in the first reading to clarify the rules on the participation of the Government in the Supreme Council's consideration of the bill according to their powers. So most of the MPs' comments were taken into account. And we need to take a closer look at the proposed standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u100	Kirilo Kulikov, Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u101	Thank you, colleagues. In fact, I want to agree with the Rules, what was expressed by the speaker of the Supreme Council when we sent this bill for the work done, the requirements of the Rules met. But what's happening today is that it violates our concept of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. I want to advise you, if we accept this bill, there will be big questions about cooperation, because the only methodology for calculating the marginal debt is being violated. This is the main requirement of the International Monetary Fund. So if we adopt this law, it's going to be another blow in cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. I don't mind, you're negotiating, it's for you to decide whether to take this bill or not. But we're going to inform you that it really violates the methodology. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u102	Thank you. I continue to hold meetings before the conclusion of this consideration. One minute - Stone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, our reform group for the future has always supported all the positive suggestions made in the session room. That's exactly what's coming out of the evaluation of the proposed bill that we're currently considering. This bill can only be supported by proposing a subsidy from the State Budget to local budgets for construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of streets and roads of municipal property. I think for this we will have representatives of the local authorities, members of the communities to be very grateful. This will be done at the expense of 14.6 percent of the revenue of the state budget special fund. And in addition, the bill proposes a really transparent mechanism for its distribution. Because after the Tax Code had been amended, the owners of transport vehicles had problems with road conditions, and everyone knew that. We also believe that there is a positive situation with regard to expanding the number of cities that can carry out local outdoors.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u104	Yeah, the other factions that didn't sign up don't insist on the performance? Then, dear fellows, I will put the vote to the vote. Taking into account what the reporter said. And we're here to consult with the Chief Legal Authority. Indeed, much of the comments made regarding the restrictions on the constitutional rights of the Supreme Council have already been taken into account by the committee. We're going to ask the committee and the appropriate legal authority to prepare the bill for the second reading to be fully appropriate. So there's no warning, just like we talked about in the discussion. With this in mind, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Ukraine Budget Code and some other legislative acts, please vote. [[Registration number 8545]] [[12:04:13]] For 249 Decision taken. The bill was adopted in the first reading. Once again, the committee, please take a close look at the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council so that they are not compromised. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes. After the break, we will consider the question of the election and release of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the session room, we'll continue our morning session. We are considering the question of the election and dismissal of judges: the draft decision on the election of judges. [[8664]] Please. Reports the head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Samsin Igor Leonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u106	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! According to article 76, part three, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by a candidate with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of the Act, and reviewed the application of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities for the activities of a candidate for the post of judge who came to the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine on the date of the recommendation for judicial selection. According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution, article 78 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, I submit a decision to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine on the recommendation of the candidate Shembelian Victoria Sergijovny for election to the post of judge on an open-ended basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Order 8664 on the election of the judge on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[12:35:57]] For 242 A decision has been made. 8664-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u108	In accordance with paragraph 3 of the Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has submitted a statement to the Supreme Court of Ukraine by the Higher Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitry Dmitrovic. Please note the proposal for a ruling on the election of the judge: choosing Luspénik Dmitry Dmitrovic, previously elected on an untimely basis, to serve as judge of the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u109	I'm betting on the vote on the 8664-1 Order on the election of the judge on an untimely basis. Please be supportive. [[12:37:02]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. Now the release of the judges. Head of the High Council of Justice, Volodymyr Mikolayovich Kolesnichenko, draft regulation 8481.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting on 31 May this year, in accordance with article 126, section 9, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles 100-109 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the dismissal of judges under general conditions and decided to make appropriate submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All judges find that their actual will, foreign influence, or coercion in their decision to release has not been established. The High Council of Justice proposes to release: [[Project 8665]] Ms. Andriyovich, Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Cherniewec Region, in connection with the application for resignation, Svetlana Basilovna's Targonium.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u111	No, no, wait, wait. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, we're looking at 8481 first, and then it's going to be 8665.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u112	Whatever you say. 8481. In accordance with article 126, part five, of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law on the High Council of Justice, the Higher Council of Justice filed an application for the release of Neznak Viktor Fedorovich from the post of Judge of the Pistomitov District Court of the Lviv Region, in connection with his violation of the oath. We submit, more faithfully, the Supreme Council twice raises this issue to the day’s notice, and the first meeting is not in connection with his absence. There was information that he was in the hospital. And the second report is that he's asking to postpone hearings, as he has appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court with a summons for action by the High Council of Justice. From the constant practice that is taking place, and the Code of Administrative Justice provides that the very fact that an appeal to a court is not the basis for delaying or not considering the matter in the Supreme Council. In view of the fact that this judge had a long period of time. We were unable to consider this question because he did not appear to the High Council of Justice four times, obstructing the conduct of checks on members of the High Council of Justice. A member of the High Council of Justice is arriving in the Emptymittov region, he closes the court, cases in the office, seals and exits. We have struggled for a long time to determine with this judge. The court is already paralyzed by his activities. So I would ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to consider it without his participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u113	Right. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, we've already put him down once, I understand. Right. Philenko, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u114	Vladimir Filenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, member of the Justice Committee. Well, I don't really like protecting judges, but in this case, I'm going to defend the procedure. Adam Ivanovich, by the name of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, who could now preside, is sent a telegram that is essentially being examined by the Supreme Administrative Court. If we make a positive decision about his release and the court decides otherwise, we will, in a mild sense, find ourselves in an incomprehensible situation. There is a question in court, nothing will happen until the court examines, waits for the court to decide and returns to that question. So I call on my colleagues, my national deputies, to allow the judicial branch of power to deal with my problems and with my judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, we've talked about this not once, it's not once. It's been since the faction, Mikhail Vasilovich. You don't have a county, sorry, there isn't one yet. We've put it off more than once. Questions, as they say, with a beard. Clearly, the judge defends himself. It's his right. But I am voting for the motion to adopt Order 8481 on the release of Neznak Viktor Fedorovich from the post of Judge of the Pustomitov District Court of the Lviv Region in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Please vote. [[12:42:04]] For 236 Decision taken. Please, 8665, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u116	Draft Decree 8665: On the release of Stasuk Mikli Ivanovich from office of Judge of the Hmilinick District Court of Winnitsk in connection with the acquisition of the legal force of the indictment against him. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u117	8665 is a little bit different. 8665 is the release of the judges, the resignation, and so on. So listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u118	8665. In accordance with article 126, paragraph 2.3.9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: To release the project from the judges' posts: Ms. Andriyovich, Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Cherniewec Region, has been dismissed in connection with the application for resignation; Svetlana Vasilovna's Targoni, Kiev's Court of Appeal, in connection with the achievement of sixty-five years; The Lithuanian Raisa Andriyevna, the Regional Court of Vilnius of Dnipropetrovsk, in connection with the application for discharge at your own request; Zakutski Vladimir Ivanovich, judge of the Regional Court of Wozniesen, Mikolaiyivsk, in connection with the application for resignation; Magaluk Vera Ivanovna, Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk City Court of Odessa County, in connection with the application for resignation; Demchenko Vera Stépanovna, Judge of the Zvenigrad District Court of Cherkas region, in connection with the application for discharge at your own request; and Llužnik Tetjana Fedorovna Judge of the Sosnov district court of Cherkasa, in view of the impossibility of exercising their powers under the state of health. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the ruling number 8665 on the release of judges. Please be supportive. [[12:44:10]] For 263 Copy that. And 8665-1 has already been reported to you. I'm putting to the vote a draft decision on the release of Judge Staszuk Mikoli Ivanovich from the post of Judge of the Hmilnick District Court of the Winnitsk Region, in connection with the acquisition of legal force by an arraignment against him. Please vote. [[12:44:43]] For 264 Thank you. Decision taken. Let us welcome the judges whom we have chosen on an untimely basis today. [[Applause]] And it will continue ours. Microphone, Karakai.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, in the morning vote for inclusion in the agenda, there was some disagreement between the governing factions: Law 8586 of the Sanitation Bank was not included in the order of the day. There's an offer, if possible, to go back to voting for inclusion, but I'll say from the authors: there's been a technical error in the text, and the word "private" has to be removed from the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u121	Right. Microphone. Arjun's minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u122	Dear national deputies, presiding officer! I would like to urge you once again to comply with the Rules, in accordance with 104 articles, we do not have the right to put this question to a vote. And I think it's not easy for this bill to steal a mistake. The law itself, the title of the law does not fit its purpose. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm very much asking you to address this very carefully, because this is about, frankly, not about the sanitization bank, but about legitimate raiding things, about a large state collector's organization with incomprehensible powers. I very much ask you not to make this mistake, please do not include it in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u123	Right. There are 104 articles, but there are other articles of the Rules that give the chairman the right to ask the question of return to voting. If such a decision is made, we will return if not, we will not return. So I'm voting on the motion to return to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Day Bill on Sanitation Bank 8586, taking into account the position taken by the drafters of the bill to withdraw from the text of the bill a reminder that it would be a private structure. So they're taking this away, this is going to be created by the National Bank. Please vote. [[12:47:26]] For 235 We're back. Once again, colleagues, there really are authors who have allowed the National Bank to create a private stockholder society, we exclude the word "private," a state structure will be created to really guarantee the return of population contributions in order to save banks. I don't see a problem here, I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session of the bill on Sanitation Bank 8586. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u124	We will discuss the matter when we consider it. [[12:48:14]] For 233 The question is included. Dear colleagues! You and I were looking at the second reading of Bill 6713, and there were some disagreements between the Legal Department and the Professional Committee, and we were asked to hold consultations, consultations were held, agreed upon. So I'm voting on the proposal to enact a whole law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the order of social protection of the population in the area of observation. [[Registration number 6713]] Please vote. Vote. [[12:49:06]] For 122 Dear colleagues, once again, when we considered the issue of second reading, Bill 6713, we postponed the consideration of this bill in connection with clarifying the contradictions that existed between the committee and the professional committee between the Chief Legal Authority. We held consultations and agreed on these issues, which is why we have to vote for the bill. I am voting on the motion to return to the vote on question 6713. Please vote. [[12:50:08]] Z-62 We're not back. Therefore, the question is not considered. Make sure you get it right. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask that we have a rapporteur for the Minister of Health and that he needs to go on a nard to the President of Ukraine so that we can now consider matters related to his presence and then follow the agenda. So questions 8032 and 7057 were considered a little bit later and there's a call for a profile committee. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Basic Health Legislation of Ukraine on improving the provision of medical care. [[Registration number 8602]] There is a proposal for a profile committee to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:51:21]] For 227 Supported. Reports by Health Minister Anishchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich. While Alexander Volodymyrovich is coming, let's welcome him with his appointment as minister, this is his first report at this stage. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u125	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, we are submitting a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Change to the Basic Health Legislation of Ukraine to improve the provision of medical care. These are fundamental fundamental changes to the previous edition of the Fundamentals of Legislation, because we have a new constitution, we have new realities. The bill defines basic and health care concepts: "health", "health facility", "medical care", "medical care", "patient". Structured and expanded standards for primary, secondary, third, and extramedical care are offered, namely, a clear division of medical care according to its species in the designated health care facilities that provide it. To ensure the proper quality and availability of free secondary health care and the effective use, unfortunately, of scarce resources in health care, the bill provides for the establishment of hospital districts, which will include medical facilities, depending on the intensity of medical care. The novelty is the introduction of a bill at the legislative level of the notion of "palliative aid", which is given to patients in the final stages of the flow of untreated diseases. The bill provides for the introduction of a patient’s system of medical care, which arranges for the provision of a specialized second level and a highly specialized third level of medical care. At the same time, the content and structure of the health standards and program performance indicators are defined. The bill lays the groundwork for a contractual relationship in the health system. Please, honourable national MPs, support this bill, for it is a legislative basis, the first steps to reform health care. Because we've been talking about this for 20 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u126	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u127	We talk a lot, but we don't do anything. And you as the legislative body, both the authorities and the patients, we are all, and we as health workers are not satisfied with the system. It can't be preserved for a few more years, because the system has a very short period of time to endure all these tests. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u128	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Head of the Committee on Health Care of Bacheyev Tetjana Dmitrovna Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u129	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! The Health Committee, at its meeting, considered Bill 8602 provided by the Cabinet of Ministers and decided unanimously to support it. This shows that, regardless of policy, health issues are of concern to everyone today, and we all sincerely understand that the situation is extremely difficult. The Act provides, above all, for a clear structural distinction between primary, secondary and third levels of medical care. What we have been talking about for many years and what this has resulted in is that the small budget funding that the industry receives is being used in an inefficient and unsustainable manner. The law also provides for the right to choose freely by a patient his doctor and primary medical care. It is very important that a clear structure of health services is introduced for each level of health care. So the patient comes to the doctor and the doctor sends the narrow specialist. But also, the law must provide, if necessary, that examination of any doctor will always be possible. The bill proposes to identify critical assistance such as palliative and medical care. The fact that we have 300,000 patients lying down and need help that unfortunately doesn't prove to be very important. The bill also provides for a transition to the practice of financing health facilities through free-of-charge contracts. In fact, this is where the Chief Research and Expert Office emphasizes its comments, but in fact public and municipal health institutions can not only work in the status of budgetary institutions. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u130	Aunt Dmitry, you wrote a letter about how to proceed with a reduced procedure. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u131	Thank you very much. These recommendations have long been given to us by the World Health Organization. I also reiterate my appeal to all colleagues, regardless of politics, without piranhas, without words that no one needs today, to unite and support the bill in the first reading. And by the second, we'll work it out together. Our committee will work with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u132	Thank you, Aunt Dmitry. If they're desirable, please sign up. Demidka, Party of Regions. I can't see. Please, Zarubinsky Oleg, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Beahu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u133	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I have read in detail the observations that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has in this bill, and I would like not to stop at them, because they are before your eyes, and on those positives, there are which are in the bill, because we are looking at it only in the first reading and we can take it as a basis. Well, first of all, it seems to me that this is not a sporadic, chaotic change to actual legislation, but the proposed bill by the subject of the legislative initiative is of such a complex and systematic nature. Three points that I think are serious enough and that we have to support, and obviously a bill to vote on as a basis. First. It is quite clear that I think the national MPs have to support this, that the order of creation, the termination of health facilities, their classification and the characteristics of activities are defined by law. So this is actually the prerogative of the Supreme Council. And in this bill, it's hard enough to say that. I think it's a positive. One second. He's already been talked about by the head of the profile committee about political aid. You know, the whole world is now looking at a questionable phenomenon and a phenomenon like euthanasia for people who are already destined to die. I think our Ukrainian version offers a lot more humane things that are in palatative medicine, that is, in humanistic, kind and humane, I want to say, approaches to people who are already terminally ill. From the point of view of real humanism, this is very true. And the third moment. Diversification in pay is foreseen. By way of allowances, by way of additional payments, depending on the performance of the criteria defined by Kabmin. So I hope that Kabmin will be very hard and detailed on these criteria.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u134	Finish it already, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u135	I'm done. Which would eliminate the equation that exists in both medicine and education, and everywhere. A comparison does not allow for progress in medicine as well. So good enough, I'd say yes, the modern things proposed in this bill. In addition to discussion issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u136	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u137	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I, all of us, have been listening for more than a month to the reform of the medical sector. And it seems like the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing. And the other way around. Why do I say that? According to European experts, 47 percent of the patients in our medical field are pensioners. And so when we're talking about reforming the legal sector today, we should not talk about it as much as we do about the social protection of our citizens. Therefore, the suggestions made today in the reform of the medical field need to be turned from one’s head to another. It's pepper. The other one. Today, reform of the medical sector is proposed in the form of Canadian. So today, again, there's a practice in Canada that some Canadians expect, 18 months' worth of medical professionals. And so before you press the pros or cons button today, think hard about what kind of decision we're going to make. That's more than that. Today, this reform, which is proposed, is the first thing that distances a person from specific medical services. That's the first one. The other one. The financing of the medical sector is being cut short, especially in rural medicine. For example, I think we're going to consider the second issue in this regard -- the pilot option of Dnipropetrovska, Vinnice, Donetsk and the city of Kiev, we're going to talk more about it, but for example, I want to give you an example of the Winnitsky area. Today we have 40 district hospitals, many of which make the decision to close. And these 40 district hospitals are now serving 450,000 rural populations, which is a third of the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u138	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u140	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u141	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland, Equality. First of all, I'd like to take this opportunity to welcome all the health workers with the coming day of the health worker, and to wish that all the reforms, including those that would be adopted in this room, that would come out of the government's pen and so on, would be for the benefit of both Ukrainian medicine and Ukrainian citizens. But, indeed, there are some warnings, because what is happening today with agricultural medicine in Ukraine, you can't call any reform or any other thing, except simply the destruction of rural medicine. And the fact is that a lot and a lot of things, the FAPs that are now just getting out of the way, the doctors' cuts in the economy, in the end, on the doctors' salaries. In particular, the Dubenski oncodispancer is now being cut short, and this is actually a huge problem because in Plains the number of cancers has increased by 7 percent. So, of course, medicine needs to be reformed, but it needs to be reformed by means of equipment and equipment for this new one, by increasing the wages and qualifications of health workers, by ensuring that the state also cares for the medical profession itself, and that the medical profession already cares for the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u142	Yes, Bully, the reform group for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u143	Raisa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u144	Who, who? I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u145	Soroczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u146	Soroczynski. Please turn on the microphone. And then who, Grigorovitch?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! When I study these two laws, I'm convinced they're not negative, or they can't be adopted. Medicine is no longer in place at all. And these two bills, both 8602 and 8603, have to be adopted for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. I'm convinced that it's the division at the level: the extraneous, primary, secondary and highly specialized third-party aid to people in Ukraine is provided, as a colleague said, not as much as you would like. Yes, really, 47 percent are pensionable people, and medical care should be provided at the primary level, namely, by family doctors. The Reform Group for the Future will support these two bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u148	Yes, Lilia Grigorovitch of the faction, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u149	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! If we characterize the medical field by using medical terminology, the health system is closer to the comatose state. Of course, if we were 5, 10, and even better 15 years ago, we started those changes that would be adequate to today's demand, we wouldn't have had to do it today and maybe in some painful way. But when a sufferer is in a coma, two ways are to put his hands down and let him go into another world or try to help himself. The change to the basics of legislation that are being proposed today is actually a response to the actual circumstances of today that need to be reflected and divided into levels. different levels of medical care: both funding, and the status of medical institutions, and the rights of patients and doctors. So I am convinced that we should rescue our sick person, who is today a health care system, and support this legislative act.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u150	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. Please prepare for the vote. I am convinced that all of us are united in the fact that such a situation is still intolerable in the field of health. I understand that this bill may cause complaints, but there is a Supreme Council of Ukraine for that purpose, so that it does not print out the decisions that will be made, further elaborate and prepare for the second reading of the relevant bill. But to do so, we need to take it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending the Basic Health Law for Ukraine to improve the provision of medical care. [[Registration number 8602]] Please vote. [[13:07:55]] For 306 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on the Procedure for Reforming the Health System in Winnitsky, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk and Kiev is proposed for consideration. [[Registration number 8603]] Let's look at it in a simplified way so that the committee can work on it in more detail. Please vote. [[13:08:33]] For 223 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Health Minister Anishchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich. And the co-reporter is the head of the Tetjan Dmitrovna Bachteyev Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u151	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Thank you so much for making a wise decision in the interests of the people of Ukraine. This is the first time. Secondly, the purpose of the adoption of the Health Reform Act in Winnitsky, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk and Kiev is to implement models and mechanisms for reforming the health system for further implementation at the national level. The bill proposed that primary, secondary, third and emergency health care facilities should be distinguished between health care facilities in 2011 and 2014 by means of the establishment of primary health care centres, specializing in the profile and intensity of health care institutions as hospital units and highly specialized health care facilities, as well as the creation of new approaches to financing health care facilities and the implementation of contracts for public health care services. The primary health care is expected to be financed at a district, urban level. Other types of medical care are from the district. The bill provides for a mechanism to finance incentives for health - care workers through the use of incentive payments, ranging from the scope and quality of work done. In addition, the bill sets out how doctors interact with primary health care providers who carry out the economic activities of medical practices as physical entrepreneurs. The bill foresees monitoring the process of reform in pilot regions and their scientific and medical support. We believe that the bill should be implemented in a certain order. By the end of 2011, we need to focus on the transformation of primary health care and emergency care, 2012 on the establishment of hospital districts, 2013 on the introduction of new ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u152	Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u153	By your permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you to support this bill, because you have made your decision first. If we make a decision the second time, it's a start, the beginning of a health reform. And why are we not the whole country, but just four subjects? Because you need to determine whether the right methods and ways are right or not. I'm asking you very much for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u154	Yes, thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dmitri Mikitovich. Yes, I'm already looking at the second law where Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich has to report. Bachelor Tetjana Dmitrovna, head of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, data. pilot projects, they've started since October of the month. And the Ministry of Health, together with our committee, were in visiting meetings in all the regions of Dnepropetrovsk, Donetsk and Vinnitsk oblast. Medical personnel, practical doctors, the public are very much asked to support our pilot projects through the legislative framework. And today's bill awaits these regions very much. I would like to point out, however, that each region has demonstrated its own desire to participate in these projects. And you know that in addition to the three regions, the city of Kiev has joined. The bill will, first and foremost, delineate primary, secondary and tertiary health care through funding. We are saying that funding for the industry is insufficient, and 80 per cent is funded by fixed assistance. In Europe, this is only 25 per cent and 75 per cent primary, secondary, today we have three times the size of a fencing fund than in CIS countries and Europe. Today, every second one of us is lying on a hospital bed for no good reason. That is to say, this distinction will also lead to a proper, rational and coherent focus on the provision of health care. In order to improve the effectiveness of specialized health care, the network is optimized and hospital districts are established. And many, perhaps a faction of communists might say that this is not explicitly provided for in article 49 of the Constitution. Of course, there is no provision, but no hospital, no doctor, will remain unoccupied, or without a job. There'll be re-profiling.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u156	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u157	One more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u158	Please complete the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u159	It has been said that we need both hospice and palliative offices for very severe cancer patients. The main point was the observation of the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration that the programme needed to be prepared, but not by law. In fact, it must be only law and in the way it is presented to us today, because it is a key conceptual observation and I want to say that 92 articles of the Constitution say that the rights, freedoms and duties of citizens are determined by laws but not by programmes. And I also sincerely appeal to everyone to support this bill because it will be done in these regions, which each individual and then the whole country will be covered by this reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u160	Thank you. Thanks again. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Please sign up for an exchange of views on this bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Irina Gorin, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u161	I wanted to draw the attention not only to our colleagues, but especially to the televised, radio listeners, our citizens, that the example of the adoption of these two laws is now the systematic, fruitful work of the Committee on Economic Reforms with the President of Ukraine on how reforms are being prepared. For more than a year, the working group, led by the Committee and the Ministry of Health, has carried out work every day by experts and our nationals and abroad to now propose two of these laws. It is absolutely right that selected pilot regions in which models will be worked out and errors, if identified, will be rectified, the first law will be amended to make the system more perfect and work more qualitatively. This is an example of how health reform is being proposed and proposed. A very good, faithful, literate approach has been supported by almost all factions. Note, representatives of various factions spoke and said that this was the only possible right path now in the reform of the health system and should now be taken without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u162	Anatoly Matvienko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u163	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, if you put the wagon in front of the mare, no matter how much you give the mare team, there will be no movement ahead. What happens now, if we've supported the first bill, the second is a serious methodological error in approaches to reform. Today, reform is to consolidate the efforts of all, not only the central executive authorities but also the local authorities. The reform aimed at providing services should be strictly linked to administrative reform, and then we can only do circuits, including medical ones. If we're not doing administrative reform with you and we're trying to do some kind of medical district, that's absurd. Because, once again, this is a very important medical service that cannot be provided without the active, interested and effective work of local authorities. What we do now will not work because it is inconsistent and does not fit in the logic of consistent steps. So if we say that in these three areas we want to do something, let's, as a last resort, go to administrative reform of the basic level in these three areas. Then bind these two reforms, and then you can expect a synergistic effect. Otherwise it won't work. And that's why it's nothing else, like, so-called optimization, cost cuts. And if what you want to do is call the districts, they demand an increase in the cost. And so by covering up some of the benefits and intentions, we try to make a mistake today. I warn our colleagues not to do this because it doesn't make sense. And that's why we have to do everything in harmony with logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u164	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u165	I'm handing Tomenkov over.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u166	Mikola Tomenko, please. Then Sergey Pavlovenko will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u167	Dear colleagues! I'd warn you a little bit about the optimistic mood that prevails here. I heard a deputy here who said that thanks to the President and the President's Administration, everyone would soon be happy and treated for free and live in joy and happiness. In short, the vesilla became a living thing and so forth. If these colleagues went to the countryside of Ukraine, as my colleagues and I did, and they saw that today at the field and obstetric centres, which were passed without the consent of the rural communities, to the district budgets, and the district budgets are unable to fund the district hospitals, that in FAPach today they pay grandparents for the disposable syringes to understand. Grandma comes to the village, she's told, you want a shot, pay for the money. So I would not want us to be in such a joyful mood, since the situation has gone so far as to be unknown today as to provide primary health care. Second position. I fully agree with my colleague, Matthew. What is the rural area of the hospital district? The hospital district is a community of three or four rural areas where everyone understands that this is going to be a district center in the future. These two or three rural districts will be disbanded because everyone knows that the center will be. This is how I, for example, am going to be in Zoldanosz in Chernobayivsky and there will be no Drabovsky district. Imagine the situation in the Ukrainian village, if there are professional doctors through these hospital areas, there will be no work, and the professionals who have education will not know where the children are. I'm told we'll hire them. Show me how you work. Take at least one example when a rural hospital closes, and you make a center, for example, for the elderly. Although one example we did and I did it in Poltavian with my colleague, Vadim Petrenko, and others. If there was a case of closure, it was not a closure, but a retraining. So it seems to me that if, of course, the people in Winnitzkin want to close the hospital or in Kiev, even though no one has asked the villagers. The Winnick district council, what made that decision? I don't know either. The city council of Kyiv made that decision? Because if city leaders, or districts, made decisions to please the President, one story, and local self-government did not make a decision. So I don’t think we can afford laws that narrow down the rights to protect our people’s health, especially in rural areas. Anyone who wants to experiment, experiment, come on, maybe start experimenting with Feofany, somewhere else. Well, experimenting on poor people in rural areas is a crime. So I think this idea is wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u168	Thank you. Sergei Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u169	Sergey Pavlenko, faction of the People’s Party, Kiev Please give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u170	Oleg Zarubinsky, please, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u171	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovich. I agree with the information that in Fapach grandmothers buy syringes. But they're not buying them in 2010 and 2011, they've been buying them since the 15th. And in order for them to stop buying syringes and taking pills that they want, because there's nothing else in the FAP, you obviously have to do something. But it's easier to say that it's the way it is now, and if there's a desire to change the situation, it's obvious that you have to filter out this desire in a good way, but to contribute to change. Well, in particular, I have to say, you know, when the subject of the legislative initiative is Kabmin, there's a certain block in the explanatory note and there's also a position like "the sixth regional aspect." And it says here that the representatives of Winnicki, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk district and Kiev city administrations in the process of drafting the bill were put forward by the working group with proposals for a draft law that were fully considered. Your Honor, it's true. That's true. And I found out about this, especially the Wynnick district council made their proposals, the district council deputies, and they're accounted for, so this is not a formalized paragraph 6, and that's what it is. And two more moments that I think we should also consider and not talk about all black or white, because, you know, the position and place of the seat depends on whether it's black or white. I want to be objective. What is being implemented since 2012, as a result of these pilot projects, the quality indicators of primary, secondary, third and emergency medical care on which the quality of this aid is taken into account and assessed, is it good or bad? That's good. So far, no one has defined the quality indicators. And so the number of deaths in Ukraine per thousand people is much higher than, even in neighbouring countries, I don't talk about Western European countries anymore. And one more moment. I think it should be supported and left behind whether it will be in the second reading or not, and I think that the second reading will have to work on the bill, but it should be left behind. It's a norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u172	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u173	This is a norm when rapid assistance as a result of the establishment of a regional emergency medical and disaster medical centre should be up to speed for 20 minutes. Today, in the system that everyone is criticizing, there is no such thing in the past, and you know it very well. We have to work and we have to work. We've got to back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u174	Thank you. Yeah, Communist faction, Beales, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u175	I have an offer for some of my colleagues to come not only to Winnica but to every area and village. In my home village, the hospital had been drenched with weed and the ceiling had fallen. That is the quality and approach and the reforms that we are proposing today. That's the first one. The other one. I mean, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will not take part in this adventure. That's two. Both the third and the syringes are bought, and instead of the tents, the shoes are tied to the patient’s bed and so on. It's all there is. You have to steal less, you have to put more money into medicine, that's how much it's gonna cost! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. Let's work it out this way. We're all extremely strong in the part of the statement. Calls: "Let us not steal!" Let's not steal! Come on. Because that's what we do, everybody's yelling that we don't want to steal, and everybody's stealing. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues! So let's think about it this way. If it's an experiment, let's say, in this medical district or hospital district, what kind of equipment will it be. Whether funding will continue to take place as it does today. 85 percent of the funding goes completely to the hospital, not to a person, and to specialized medical facilities. What can X - ray people do in this medical district? Will we give these coins as we give them at the district hospital now, and there is nothing there! And let them show a sample of how long a person can be taken to this medical district to ensure that he is fully treated. If such an experiment is effective, then let us continue to make appropriate decisions. We all say a lot of things, sucky words, but we're not gonna do anything. Let's do this. So let's make a decision. Dear National Deputies! I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Law on the Procedure for Reforming the Health System in Winnitsky, Dnipropetrovski, Donetsk oblasts, and Kyiv. Registration number 8603. Please vote. [[13:27:39]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The factions? Please. Region Party – 185, “BUT – Fatherland” – 1, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 12, Communists – 0, “Reforms for the Future” – 20, “The People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 7. Dear colleagues! I suggest that you consider the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the powers of the Scientific Advisory Council before the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The committee suggests that the bill be examined in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:28:26]] For 206 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. The reporter is Dmitri Mikitovich Pritica.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u177	Yuri Carmazin. Honourable National Deputies, with the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, which has substantially changed the legal principles of the organization of the functioning of judicial authority in Ukraine, have also changed the procedural order for the review of judicial decisions by the Supreme Court. In particular, in articles 240-1 of the Ukrainian Code of Administration, 111-22 of the Code of Conduct, 400 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and 360 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Ukraine’s Civil Procedural Code has established a procedure for preparing the case for consideration at the Supreme Court of Ukraine. One of the preparatory procedural actions necessary to deal with the case is the commission of a reporting judge to the relevant members of the Scientific Advisory Council of the Supreme Court to prepare a scientific conclusion on the norm of material law, which has been applied differently by the court of a machining institution in similar legal relations. At present, this requirement of procedural laws creates the greatest obstacle for the reporting judges in the preparation of the report and the adoption of the finalization of the preparation and determination of the case before the Supreme Court and, as a result, impedes the execution of the case. Such a situation is explained by the fact that members of these councils, because of their disproportionate workload and responsibilities to reach the stated scientific conclusions on public principles outside the basic workplace, are unable to prepare their conclusions in a qualitative and timely manner. As a result, honourable national MPs, you and I need to re-establish the Constitution 126, 129 of the Constitution, which states that judges are independent and subject only to the law. The Ukrainian Court of Justice Act stipulates that the courts exercise justice on their own. In the exercise of justice, the courts are independent of any illegal influence. The courts exercise justice on the basis of the Constitution and the laws, while ensuring the rule of law. In addition to the legal aspect, there is also a legal aspect.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u178	Yes, please, microphone. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u179	Thank you. In addition to the legal aspect, there are also financial and technical aspects of the problem. For example, for the purposes of the Supreme Court of Ukraine's review of only one civil case, the reporting judge is obliged to send materials to the case, which in many cases number up to 100 sheets, to 16 members of the NCR. In total, 154 approvals were issued by judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in less than six months and members of the Scientific Advisory Council are obliged to prepare the scientific conclusions. During this time, 1 thousand 12 materials, 552 household, 316 administrative, civil jurisdiction were actually sent. I want to say that, dear friends, this must be taken now to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u180	Thank you. Dmitri Mikitovich Pritica.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u181	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered, at its meeting, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputy Karmazin. [[concerning the powers of the Scientific Advisory Council before the Supreme Court of Ukraine]] The purpose of the bill is to improve the provisions of the Code of Administrative Justice, the Code of Economic Procedure, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as the Law of Ukraine on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, as part of the preparation of the case for consideration by the Supreme Court of Ukraine and to increase the powers of members of the Scientific Advisory Council in the exercise of the Supreme Court of Ukraine's scientific security function. In order to achieve the stated objective, the project proposes that certain rules should be repealed, according to which the reporting judge is required to prepare the case for consideration, to instruct members of the Scientific Advisory Council to prepare a scientific opinion on the case. It is also proposed to amend part 1 of article 46 of the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges on the involvement of members of the Scientific Advisory Council in the preliminary consideration of the subject matter of the law of the legislative initiative with proposals for amendments to legislation and the provision of a constitutional application on the constitutionality of laws and other legal acts. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the draft law can be adopted on a basis. Ukraine’s Supreme Court, Ukraine’s Supreme Administrative Court, has expressed some of its observations and believes that the project can also be accepted as a basis. The committee, after examining the proposed amendments to the bill, notes that they are correct, and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine as a basis. [[concerning the powers of the Scientific Advisory Council before the Supreme Court of Ukraine]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? If anyone insists on talking, sign up. If not, we'll vote. Ruslan Knazević, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u183	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't insist, but I'm just making an offer. Since this question is absolutely relevant, no one in the session room, no interested institutions outside this room have any warnings, on the contrary, everyone supports it, we might want to take a question in general right now, because I think there's nothing to add to the second reading. There, in principle, should be a completely original text, because it should be a right, not an obligation to involve members of the Scientific Advisory Council in any matter. Clearly, if there are such questions as where the judge is unable to figure it out, he will still turn around and do not have to make him responsible. And in that case, if this continues to stand in the way of the execution of justice, we will have the problem that we already had. Yuri Anatoliyovich told us what our problems were, for how many assignments are given and they are not carried out. Think of the situation. A few years ago, we took decisions on appeals courts and distributed cases that had been accumulated in the Supreme Court for years, including one of the problems and reasons for that is that the mandate was given, and a member of the Scientific Advisory Council was either delaying the question of whether he was providing such expert judgements that the judge could not, by definition, apply in his work. Therefore, this issue needs to be supported and voted on in general today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, are there any other suggestions? A proposal is put to the vote: the adoption of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning the powers of the Scientific Advisory Council before the Supreme Court of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 8032]] Please vote. [[13:36:17]] Z-91 It's not a decision. I'm voting on a motion to re-read the bill. [[13:36:39]] For-99 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party 2, "BUT" -42, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 10, communists – 24, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, "The People's Party" – 0, "Afterfaction" – 3. A draft Law on Economic Unions is being announced for consideration. The committee suggests that this issue be examined in a simplified manner. I'll bet you a vote on the committee's proposal. [[13:37:19]] For 206 Decision taken. Reporters: First Deputy Justice Minister Emilianova Inna Ivanovna and National Deputy of Ukraine Kseniya Mikhailovna Ljapina Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! A draft Law on Economic Unions is presented for your consideration. The need for the adoption of this law is due to the existence of gaps in the legal regulation of both the formation and the cessation of economic unions, the formation of their administrations, the formation of statutory capital, the withdrawal of participants from the compound, the relationship with its participants. This was due to the fact that the issues that have been settled today in the Master’s Codex, they merely schematically define what economic union is and what its legal status is. Also, the Ukrainian Act on the Management of National Property Objects contains some standards related to the creation of state - owned associations and the definition of their status. In contrast with the regulation that exists today, the adoption of a separate Law on the Uniting of Hostages will allow for a detailed settlement of relations related to the activity of economic unions as a whole, as well as a clear definition of the legal status of State economic unions, since this issue is addressed in chapter three of the Law. The project defines, inter alia, the concept of economic integration, their species, the order of formation, the rights and duties of the participants, the authorities, the legal regime of their property, the conditions and grounds for the withdrawal of the participant from the economic union, the order of cessation, the particularity of the creation, what I said, the economic union of the state form of property. Among the novels of this draft law is the fact that, unlike the current Code of the Master, there may be a circle of entities that may become members of the economic union, namely, that there may also be individuals who are entrepreneurs other than those who are in charge. Today, legislation forbids it. Considering that the project has made substantial changes to the legal status of the economic union and the settlement of the relations associated with their functioning, the draft law has also been proposed to regulate the final situation in a comprehensive manner, and changes have been made to both the Code of Lords and the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u186	Do you have everyone? Thank you. Xenia Mikhailovna Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u187	Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, where did it come from to regulate the organization? This left us with an inheritance from the Soviet staff of reeds who had management functions in relation to farm units. This was natural for the Soviet model, because the owner was the only state. In the early 1990s, when our legislation was formed, certain things passed without understanding the civil law framework, the relationship in this area. And that's what that led to. Today, even according to the Ukrainian Code of Lordship, state enterprises can join together on so - called voluntary principles with the transfer of management functions. So they're actually ignoring their only owner, the state. This may not be the case in all normal countries, and in private enterprises a transfer decision is made by the owner. In fact, my bill proposes that this decision be returned to the owner, the state in the Cabinet of Ministers, that is, its executive body should decide to create such a union, not just state enterprises, that is, the director himself would decide to hand over the government. Another important feature is that this principle of unification cannot be extended to subjects of private law. Because private-law entities around the world have long had a normal, transparent integration tool by creating concentration in the main company of decision - making stocks or particles in the statutory capital of other companies. And this is the only way and it does not require any further settlement, for the Civil Code still allows private subjects to join forces in this way. What I want to stress is the difference between my bill and the government bill. I insist that the unification of state enterprises may include exclusively unitary state enterprises. Because here, it means.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u188	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u189	It means handing over control. The transfer of the administration of private and public entities to a single centre cannot be reconciled; it violates the foundations of civil law. I'm asking you to lay the groundwork on my bill because it won't allow you to take control in an improper way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u190	Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev, please, from the committee. Deputy Head of the Economic Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! These bills were considered at a meeting of the Committee, and the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine send both bills for processing and that is why. I'll start with the first bill of government. [[7057]] If you look at this bill, you will see that this bill, which Mrs. Lapina has been paying attention to, by the way, it allows for a merger of public property enterprises and private property enterprises. In so doing, the decision on the statute of each party shall be taken by the association itself. What does that mean? This means that this association will decide how the statute of the State enterprise is changed, who will run the public enterprise and so on. This is the first innovation, we think it's wrong. The second novelty. If, under the current Ukrainian Economic Code, the property of members of the association of enterprises and private enterprises is not transferred to the property of the association, but is transferred to management only, it is transferred under this bill to the property of the association, it is a disguised form of privatization, we believe that this is wrong. Next. There is a contradiction in this law itself. For example, it is said that they retain, these enterprises, their legal status, and on the other hand, as I have already said, they cannot fail to change their leaders, they cannot change their statutes and so on and so forth. For these reasons, the Committee recommended a draft for further work. Such individual comments are available to Ms. Lapina's bill. [[7057-1]] For example, both there and there, the bills indicated that the State Fund should be allowed to privatize. We believe that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u192	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u193	The State does not own the property of the association. It is for the State to decide to privatize or not to privatize, not to participate in associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u194	And what a proposal for a committee, tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u195	Both bills for redrafting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there any other suggestions? Let's do it this way. Then I'll put the vote on acceptance as a basis. Based on the base. If not supported, then we will put to the vote the right to re-establish the subject of the legislative initiative. Puts the vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u197	Yes, please sign up for the discussion. If we return it for further work, why discuss it? Please sign up. And we're going to continue to work for 15 minutes: we have another bill to consider before we take a break. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u198	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I want to go to the government right now and to the pro-Kyprian majority that we have. You've just failed a bill amending the powers of the Scientific Advisory Council at the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Who are you, Carmazine? You didn't do Karmazin wrong, you did bad things to thousands and hundreds of thousands of people waiting for a decision to be taken by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. You didn't even do it to the Supreme Court, you did it to Ukrainian citizens, you made access to justice worse. That's who you did the wrong thing to. You've got it all over Ukraine anyway! You're already pushing it into the deflection. You're about to! Because when I said, answer, Azarov Mikola Janovich, you printed 100 billion or 150. You didn't answer. Because for 170 billion, they printed empty money, unprovoked. And now you're saying we're going to fail. All right, let's go. People will see and assess, including that you today and the judicial branch are obstructing work. And here you are obstructing the normal bill of Lapina, and you're also preventing it from developing. Because of this, the proposal was wrongly introduced by the committee, and more specifically, they had the courage to send a bill of government. But the Lapland bill has to be supported. It gives breath to those subjects of farming that are closing thousands of times today and who are going abroad or fleeing the modern - day racket, already this year that is coming. Because of this, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the committee's proposal should be accepted so that 1 send, they offered, for work, and I'm putting in a proposal for Lapp's support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u199	Thank you. My dear colleagues, once again, the committee proposes that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work — the Cabinet of Ministers and our colleague Kseniya Liapinius. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office agrees with this decision and such a recommendation from the committee. At the same time, I will put to the vote a separate bill on the adoption of it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Economic Unions. Registration number 7057. [[government]] Please be sure. [[13:48:59]] For 213 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on State and Municipal Economic Unions, by Xenius Leapina. [[13:49:29]] For-28 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Registration numbers: 7057, 7057-1. [[13:49:57]] For 296 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian legislation. [[on the simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities]] Registration numbers: 8521, 8521-1, 8521-2. On the committee's proposal, I'm putting to the vote the issue of reviewing these bills under a reduced procedure. Please vote. And once again, we continued to work for 14 hours for 15 minutes to complete our consideration of this issue. [[13:50:47]] For the 220. Decision taken. The rapporteurs are the first Deputy Minister of Finance, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, National Deputys of Ukraine Natalija Jurijovna Královska and Arsenij Petrovich Yacenuk. And, please, from the committee, who will report? Hometic Vitaly? There's a committee head. Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky, First Deputy Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u200	Thank you. Honorable national deputies, a simplified system of taxation, accounting, and reporting were introduced in Ukraine in 1998 and have remained unchanged to this day. The absence of systemic changes in its basic positions has led to a simplified tax system becoming a deterrent to small businesses. In addition, a simplified system of taxation has eventually been used by entities operating in the general tax system to minimize their tax liabilities. To this end, the introduction of a simplified system of taxation into modern economic conditions, led by Minfin, a working group composed of representatives of central executive bodies, small business, scientists, the public, developed the concept of reforming a simplified system of taxation that was presented to business and public representatives. As a result of the discussion of this concept, as well as consultations with business representatives, a bill was prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers, which took into account the complex problems of change in the business taxation system. The bill provides for a part of encouraging small business to increase the marginal income that can, if possible, apply a simplified system of taxation, introduce for individuals with an income of up to 2 million dollars per cent of the single tax, cancelling restrictions on the taxpayer's cost of income, the cost of purchasing goods, jobs, services to the individual and some other standards that are available on the Supreme Council's website. Simplifications were also applied in the administration system, including the cancellation of the annual single - tax payer’s testimony. And the granting of the right to natural persons is not to pay the only tax on vacation. In order to avoid the use of single tax payers to minimize tax liabilities large and medium.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u201	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u202	30 seconds. It was predicted that taxpayers would be subject to a tax on income and expenditure in the form of a single tax cut. Establishing requirements for natural persons who pay taxes at fixed rates for the provision of services exclusively to individuals and single taxpayers. Establishing financial responsibility for violating the terms and conditions of the simplified taxation system. Cancelling a witness in case of a violation. In addition, a simplified system in the form of, as proposed, enabling the development of small businesses to be stimulated, reducing the cost of administrative fees. To ensure parity in government relations and small business. Eliminate tax schemes. So the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers is to consider and adopt this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u203	Thank you. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska. Please refer to Bill 8521-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u204	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You know that despite the promises made on the tax scale, it has been six months since the Cabinet of Ministers prepared a bill on a simplified tax system as soon as possible. For half a year, the Cabinet of Ministers monitored the closure of enterprises, job cuts, rising prices, and the economy being destroyed. He saw the business of Ukraine being destroyed completely by the controlling authorities. The price of error is 250,000 unemployed. That's 400,000 taxpayers. These are tens of thousands of enterprises that have been forced to close. That's six billion dollars worth of budget money. This is the price of a mistake in adopting the Tax Code. The price of error is that, as soon as possible, there are no rules that will allow small businesses to develop in our country, middle class, independent people. People who were dumped on the streets in the 1990s but did not ask for anything from the country, created their jobs and organized their own business. The people who were trying to turn these six months into slavery and throw them out on the streets, choked because they dared to go out on the tax haven last year and say their word, say no to the powerless. But you know, people haven't lost these six months, they've gathered and written their laws, the people's laws, they've written those people who really know what it takes today for the economy to develop, to make taxes pay, for people to work freely. And the bill that I am introducing, I am only a guide, the authors are 200 social organizations that have indeed held a debate on the bill in all regions and expressed their position. The bill allows.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u205	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u206	In addition, 500,000 jobs will be created by the end of the year and an additional 2 billion gross revenue will be made available to the budget. I therefore ask the room to support this bill that people have written and that has been proposed to us as a test with you deputies: either we are ready to pass liberal laws today and show that we are really concerned about the economy, or we will continue to imitate the struggle for people. And in general, we believe that the Tax Code should be repealed and revised because the technical rules today will not correct the mistakes that have already been made here, in this room, and which have been destroying our country's economy for six months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u207	Thank you, too. Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk concerning the draft law. [[Registration number 8521-2]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! There is only one good news of today’s review of the changes to the Tax Code. It is that the Cabinet of Ministers not only admitted its error but also criminalized the adoption of the Tax Code last year. I want to remind you, most of you, I'll tell you, it's from the so-called pro-dominant majority that I supported this bill, and there are great results from this bill. Of the 13 million Ukrainians, 1.7 million have no jobs according to the ILO methodology. Why was the Tax Code to be adopted? Only one goal is to create jobs. This is the number-one job for the state, not the final juices from the Ukrainian economy. Cows must be fed before feeding. You've already done it. I would like to separate myself from the tax code that I am proposing. First of all, there was a conversation on a hundred round tables with entrepreneurs, with entrepreneurs who are now out of work. We demand that we return to a quality simplified system, a simplified system that enables the Ukrainian to earn money for himself and his family. They're not businessmen, they're businessmen, you're in the Party of Regions that hold the entire industrial sector of the country, and they're big capitalists. They're simple people who just want to survive. That is why I insist on the adoption of the bill and the introduction of a simplified tax system. Moreover, a simplified system will allow every Ukrainian to obtain his own small business, to pay minimum taxes and most important taxes, to get rid of the tax press and the incredible tax reporting. It's about complex changes to the law. Yesterday, unfortunately, you again failed a comprehensive bill that envisioned two dozen amendments to this sad tax code. And we're still going to have to go back, go back because the country needs to increase employment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u209	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u210	increasing employment and jobs, jobs and the future. Please support my law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u211	Yes, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. The lists are not yet formed. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u212	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The committee reviewed all three drafts of the Law Amendments to the Tax Code relating to the simplified tax system. If we take general conclusions, the only thing we can say is that there are too many policies on this issue. And if there were less political slogans and more constructive work, I think this question would have been solved a long time ago. That's the first one. It's different. Those statements that are echoed by politicians at the same time in some cases and by the authors of draft laws are unfounded. The committee asked for statistics, for the State Tax Service, and received official conclusions on 250,000 unemployed, 400,000 non-payers of taxes -- what was said, I can say the following, yes, really, for 80,000 entrepreneurs, it was less working with legal persons. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that 200,000 of the same entrepreneurs were both employed in businesses and provided services as subjects of the simplified system. So they were involved in some sort of minimalization scheme. At the same time, they've increased by 153 thousand simplify entrepreneurs who work on general grounds. So overall statistics are completely not tragic, it's, let's say, normal. And scare the hell out of it. That from January 1st something turned upside down, because all the positions of the simplified system for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u213	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u214	I'm sorry, I'm reporting on three laws. If you don't mind, a little more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u215	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u216	In fact, for today’s day the system is functioning the same one that began to function since July 3, 1998. And it is in force today, the President’s decree on the simplified system and reporting of small businesses. Hence, nothing has changed completely today. And once again, I confirm that all these fears are groundless, because when the President's veto was imposed on chapter fourteen, in fact the whole system is simplified, which is in the state, it remains the same as before. What's relevant to the bill. There are three approaches, three different approaches. In fact, in many cases they speak of the same things. But basically, the government bill proposes several categories on tax rates, and the first category is micro-entrepreneurs, up to 150,000 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u217	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u218	This is about the same situation. With regard to small entrepreneurs, the government's tax supply is 200 dollars, according to the Yatzenyuk National Deputy project, the same small enterprises, taxes are up to 300 dollars per month; if circulation is 1 million 600, then 70 percent of the minimum wage is 700 dollars. [[up to 1 million dollars]] [[up to 800,000 rounds]] Different positions are a little bit better, let's say, positions in national MPs are worse. But if you generalize, the government bill for today corresponds, first of all, to the balance found between entrepreneurs, associations, associations and government and the committee, this is the first time. It's different.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u219	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u220	I'm done. Second, it corresponds to today's economic and political situation. Therefore, the committee decided to adopt the following, on the basis of the Government Draft Law Amendments to the Tax Code: 8521 and in the process of furthering the project, to create a working group from all interested persons, certainly including the authors of alternative proposals and proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u221	Thank you, the offer is clear. Thank you, you've taken three hours already. Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, you will report for two minutes. If we are going through a full procedure, we will report not for 15 minutes, but five minutes will report everything from the committee. But to be clear, use time. Yes, please sign up for the discussion. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Sergei Sas, then Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u222	Thank you. Please pass the word to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. Tomenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u223	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, I think it would be fair for the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Azarov, to come to our meeting with the government, speak up and say that the honourable entrepreneurs, the distinguished representatives of small businesses, the tens of thousands of whom have left their jobs and salaries, we are officially sorry to you that we have submitted a criminal draft tax code, disobeyed an opposition that has proposed not to approve these standards, and now for the eighth month after the approval, with the amendments of the President, we have come to realize that this was a false step. I'm surprised by the ease and lack of political memory when the committee head comes and says, you know, we've analyzed it and the government is offering to improve our lives. And who is responsible for the improvement that 30 to 50,000 people have stopped working in every area? If you count in Ukraine, it is not one million people who have lost their jobs. So I think, first of all, there should be responsibility for the changes that have been adopted that have led to a total reduction in jobs in the small and medium-sized business system. Human responsibility, political responsibility. Second position. Friends, you've made a mistake twice, the first time you didn't listen to us, and the President partly considered the opposition's proposals. Now for the second time, you've disobeyed us and you're proposing your own bill, so even though for the third time, listen to and take the basis of the Royal Bill, Yatsenuk, so that even though we have partially returned the normal conditions for small and medium-sized businesses. Because no one has come up with another model to save the economy, to enable business to work. You create the benefits of a warm environment for a big business that hides in offshors and destroys small and medium-sized businesses. And when we propose social bills, you say there's no money in the budget. So once again, our position is: Thirdly, don't make a mistake and take the King's and Yatsenuk's bill as the basis, and even though we will partially support small and medium-sized business.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u225	Xenia Leapina, one minute, please. Someone else is going to come out of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u226	Xenia Lapina, "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues! The fact that a government bill that meets the requirements of entrepreneurs by 90 percent is a recognition of previous mistakes. And you have to admit your mistakes and speak honestly about them. In fact, this is a recognition of unfair claims to a simplified tax system that has actually allowed citizens of Ukraine to survive and work for ten years. In fact, 90 percent of all three bills repeat the model of a simplified tax system that existed prior to the introduction of the Tax Code. And that's actually what entrepreneurs want. They ask that you do not need to improve, leave the good that has happened. And that's what these three bills are all about, with the appropriate need for certain rights. But I want to make a point. The most interesting and most difficult, I'm already saying to our listeners and entrepreneurs, will begin after the first reading. It doesn't matter, we'll take the bill as a basis, and we can take it normally.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u227	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u228	I'm done. Taking into account the proposals made by the deputies. But it is very important that the political will to improve this bill in the direction of the support of entrepreneurs, not to make it worse in the direction of tax support, until the second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, be vigilant as they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u229	Thank you. Irina Gorin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u230	We support the bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. For six months, the work was carried out with entrepreneurs, not incomprehensible to whom, as the representatives here said, who were aspiring to vote. Systemic work was done, I guess, with tax work. And the law that is now being passed on first reading is already, and now confirmed by the previous speaker, favouring entrepreneurs by almost 80-90 per cent. There were mistakes. But the ability to admit mistakes and correct them is worth it. The second reading is not the task of either the Cabinet of Ministers or the deputies to do worse. The task is only to do better, we will work out, and the law will be passed at this session. And that's the main thing. And that's what entrepreneurs need to hear right now. And only the joint work of the business and the authorities will now yield this result, which is now being proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u231	Asshole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u232	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's Reforms for the Future. We'll support the government bill. In fact, I would like to thank the entrepreneurs who have stood up for their rights throughout this time. And in fact, I think that's an example that deserves that respect. We still have to warn today that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is not taking reckless steps towards pension legislation. To be honest, after a break, we will consider it. And I would like very much not to take the wrong steps, as did the Tax Code. And basically that's all I wanted to say. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m0.u233	Yes, Your Honor, let's move on to making a decision. The committee, I remind you once again, recommends the adoption of Bill 8521. This is the view of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I will put to the vote first, according to the registration, a government bill on adoption on the basis of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other legislative acts. [[on the simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities]] [[Registration number 8521]] Please vote. [[14:13:33]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask the committee to take into account all the proposals that deserve support, and there are many in Bills 8521-1, 8521-2. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll continue in plenary at 4:00.
