ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:24]] Cards were registered in the 332 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Honorable National MPs, on April 17, 2010, died tragically in the 47th year of our colleague, Ukrainian National Deputy, Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Appeals, member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, member of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mikola Pavlovich Lisin. Please honor our colleague’s memory by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, at 12 o'clock today, we will announce a 40-minute recess to allow us to say good-bye to the national MP, our colleague Mikola Pavlovich. The Panahid will be held at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies Baranova Valerija Alexiyovich and Nadosha Oleg Volodymyrovich. We need to greet our colleagues and wish them health and success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to give you a summary of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 5 to 8 April 2011. There were six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 80 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 16 laws and 21 decrees were passed, 13 bills were adopted on the basis of 1 draft decree sent to the Committee for Re-reading, 4 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, 16 bills and 8 draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law has been adopted in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, 1 law is aimed at furthering the committee. 131 parliamentary requests have been announced. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that during last plenary week we have considered 80 issues. For this plenary week, twice as many questions were asked by factions and committees. So I would ask that we work quickly, responsibly, and effectively, remembering what this week is like, that we do not have political turmoil and opposition. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs and groups. Please sign up for the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. Next up will be Roman Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u2	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! I want to raise the most painful questions about people's lives in the rural areas of my Volina. They are characteristic of the entire Ukrainian depth. Most of the citizens' conversions at the reception are completely destroyed roads to villages that are not repaired, are not built for years. And there are people there, people who feed the country. And they're almost cut off from the world. Buses in these villages refuse to go, and, God forbid, someone's sick, whether there's a birth in the village, or an accident -- a car or a speeding machine -- can't get there. And in this situation, we hear about the optimization of medicine, which means -- just a reduction. Is it possible to think that in a small village, there is no medical supply if there are even 60 or 70 families living there? They're human! I didn’t know how to explain to people in the village of Žishtev, Bujana of the Gorokhov region, but I have a huge list. The reception was attended by people from 9 districts, and everyone on the road. The second question. In the Lokachin district of our area, gas is produced. Vulnerable zones reach the villages of Rogovici, Holopichi, near the village: Cream, Conyuchi, Protection. People put 10 million dollars into the country’s gas pipelines. There's only 1 million left. And these villages that are around the gas, they're going to get gas, they're not just going to breathe it, they're going to smell it, they're going to use it. I'm talking to Minister Yuri Anatoliovich Boyk today, the Kabmin, to find an opportunity to allocate the money to people so they can still have gas. The following question. In Volina, like other areas of Ukraine, investors came and worked on the earth. The land is processed, crops are collected that give investors good profits, and rural areas are left with almost nothing, district budgets -- too. I was approached by the heads of the village councils, the heads of the circuits. It's just people who asked for attention: most of these firms that rent land are registered either in Kiev or in large cities and taxes are paid there. The faction suggested that all taxes should remain where the companies work. When the budget was adopted, the government adjusted everything. I want to go to the government today, and I ask you to count my speech as a parliamentary request to the government, to all the relevant ministries to question roads, fair taxation, so that people don't, as in the story, to someone -- the tops, to someone -- the roots, so that we can change the question of how to deal with farmers who feed the country. They weren't left alone with their problems, because we have them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u4	We've got it. We have other moments, the village has and the village has to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u5	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next up will be Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u6	Respectable fellow countrymen, respected colleagues, and authorities have been throwing up administrative muscles for a year, but this bodybuilder has proved to be weak in the face of the real problems of the state. Thus, they are fearfully silenced in both foreign and domestic politics. It's like a child's game, black and white don't take yes and no. But you have to call everything your own words. Will Ukraine join the Customs Union? The people did not have a clear answer. They come up with some optical formulas: three someone plus one someone. If, after a lot of thought, you've determined what the Constitution should be followed, and the priority is a free trade zone with Europe, then the authorities don't deny Putin's words about the Customs Union as a tremendous happiness for Ukraine. At some point in the towers, the leaders of the state seem to say that Ukraine will not enter and that we have not heard clear official statements. Are they afraid to anger the Kremlin? Internal policy? The government has done everything in its own hands to discredit the word "reform." Now it is shyly replaced by some modernization. In what other country do government leaders suggest that citizens take the shovel and grow their own food because of food shortages? In one of the world’s largest agrarian states. Is this not a confession of complete administrative incompetence? And then the Kabin will offer to go completely to natural agriculture? Because people's salaries are beggary, and there's billions of debts, and the purchasing power is falling. If the President cannot change the entire government immediately, then please begin with Vice Prime Minister Tihypak. Obviously, he's downgraded everything from the Tax Code to pension reform. Please refer to the results during the hours of the government on Fridays, on which he had been on many occasions. Do not view such mantras as the greatest reformer of all time and peoples. After smelling fried, Mr. Tihypco is about to retire. And then try to at least restore a little bit of your ruined rating by saying that it's white and fluffy. But something was holding him back, like a famous dancer, or someone was in the way, but he got knocked down on the takeoff and stuff. We've been through this before. But the full power, the honourable colleagues, the President's. That's why I'm asking Viktor Fedorovich about the need for a political decision on the dismissal of Vice Prime Minister Tihypek for failure in the workplace. I'm sure it's supported not only by colleagues in opposition from "The Fatherland," but also by Communists and other factions, including regionalities, because it's the Party of Regions that has to deal with the consequences of Mr. Tihypak's social experiments. Not surprisingly, most of her deputies are also in favor of his resignation, even if they do not say so directly. You will also be supported by the people, of course, better to have all the power evacuated somewhere, but since it's not real, at least take Tihypca out of power, it'll be the first reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u7	Chechev Mikhailo Vasilovich, faction. Olena Bondarenko, please, faction of the Party of Regions. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u8	The well-respected speaker, respected colleagues, stability and predictability of the Ukrainian authorities bring real benefits to the country in the foreign political arena. Ukraine is actively seeking not only investors but also reliable permanent partners in the world. Political stability in our country has allowed for a renewed constructive relationship with Russia, a renewed confidence from the United States of America and the European Union. In his message to the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, has set a clear objective of our State's foreign policy, first and foremost, a course for European integration. There are no alternatives to this course, as enshrined in the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles of Foreign and Internal Policy. Membership in the European Union is an ambitious political task that is now being pursued by the current Ukrainian authorities. Even our opponents acknowledge that, over the past year, President Yanukovic's team has done more in the direction of European integration than has been done in the past five years. The negotiation process with EU structures has increased significantly. Preparations are under way for the establishment of a free trade zone between Ukraine and the European Union. At the same time, the foreign policy of the modern State in the global world cannot be repetitive. President Yanukovic's pragmatism and the emphasis on economic issues have corrected the distortions previously committed and have given new qualities to Ukraine's relations with all strategic partners without exception. In today's world, the fundamental importance for any country is the ability to protect its national interests, which is a major challenge for any country, and we are not an exception here. It is therefore very important that we have renounced the practice of ignoring our neighbour of the Russian Federation. Moreover, normalization of relations with the Russian Federation has become an integral part of Ukraine's European choice, as the movement to Europe does not conflict with active mutually beneficial work with our traditional partners. Last week's visit to Kiev by the head of the Russian Government, Vladimir Putin, enabled Ukraine to identify its economic cooperation directions more emphatically. Negotiations continue at different levels, Ukraine is interested in cooperation in specific sectors: space, airprom, nuclear energy, machinery and agriculture. One of the most important issues discussed during the meetings of the Russian Prime Minister with the leadership of Ukraine was the price of Russian gas for our country. I recall that the problem of the overvalue of fuel delivered to our country was the result of the failed activities of the previous Government, which signed a contract in January 2009 for the purchase and transport of gas between Gazprom and Naftegaz for 10 years on cables for Ukraine. The existing conditions for procurement of Russian gas are detrimental to the economy of Ukraine. That is why we are now negotiating with Russia to reduce the price of gas. With regard to the urgent question of Ukraine's accession to the Customs Union, negotiations are continuing on the most appropriate formula for our country's cooperation with this inter-State association. Ukraine proposed its “3+1” formula, in any case, before the establishment of Customs blocs, a full-fledged area of free trade should be established without removing restrictions within the CIS. President Yanukovic's meeting with Prime Minister Donald Tusk on the day following the visit of the Russian Prime Minister confirmed the pragmatism of the foreign policy of the current Ukrainian authorities and Ukraine's continuing course in Euro-integration. Upon arriving in Ukraine yesterday, European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso also spoke optimistically about Ukraine's European perspective. Another proof of the pragmatism of the current authority was the visit of Prime Minister Nikolai Azarov to China. The development of Ukraine's cooperation in traditional markets is an essential element of today's foreign policy. Dear colleagues! We can only develop as a State if we find strength in ourselves for a rapid economic breakthrough. A prerequisite for this is the unification of all political forces, which we call upon you to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u9	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Next is Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! One of the major problems facing Ukraine today is the housing problem in general and especially for the military. Think about it. Today, 45,000 families of soldiers roam the time corners, beating the thresholds in line for housing. What capacity of the Ukrainian army could this be? The Company therefore considers it necessary to consider the issue without delay and adopt a state-owned housing programme. What we propose as priority measures. First. Decide on the allocation of land from the reserves of local territorial communities for the construction of housing for free soldiers. Second. Provide public funding for the construction of houses on this land at a rate of 18 square metres per family member. At the same time, public contracts for construction and construction should be distributed exclusively to Ukrainian producers. With only these priority measures implemented, it would be possible to address the issue of housing for the military within 4-5 years. Another flagrant violation of constitutional and social rights is the violation of the right of almost a million Ukrainian citizens living in their homes to privatize their dwellings. By law, before the end of 2011, all former government dormitories must be transferred to the property of territorial communities and their tenants privatized their rooms. But what do we have in practice? There is only one example of millions in Dnepropetrovsk and today more than six months before the end of the statutory period there is no complete list of hostels, local authorities do not know how many people live in them and no resident of the hostel has been able to exercise its right to privatization. What led to this situation? This privatization and inclusion of housing in the statutory fund of privatized enterprises. The dormitories, along with the tenants, became part of the property. They were sold and reselled as trees along with the peasants at the time of the citadel. Today, the owner of the enterprise, which means the dormitory, and the dormitory, with the unspoken but obvious support of local officials, are deliberately hampering the transfer of them to the balance of local councils. People from dormitories are deliberately overstretched utility tariffs, evicted through the courts, brought buildings to safety, and circumcised heating and water systems. This winter, when, as the people say, "A good landlord and a dog will not be driven out of the house," the householder's dormitory, ignoring the laws, was thrown into a frost of old people, disabled people, and families with small children. The Communists organized relief centres for such victims. On each occasion, Communist deputies sent requests to the relevant authorities, representing the interests of victims of arbitrary acts before the courts. But we are well aware that these are not just individual facts, but a system whose aim is to enrich through the debilitated political system, capitalism. I mean, who lives in dorms? Those who do not have the means to buy housing and who will never receive it from the State, because there is no real state-based housing programme financially supported. From this rostrum, I appeal to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of the Interior to personally monitor the implementation of the Housing Rights Act and to take the necessary measures to prevent the insolventness of business owners and local business officials. For its part, the Company will respond strongly to every violation and take adequate measures until civil resistance is organized in the raider divide. And one more question. We are preparing for the next date of the Great Victory, and on 9 May we will honor our veterans. I invite everyone who thinks about our country's future today to seriously reflect on how we will soon solve this problem for all veterans in line for housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u11	National MP Kamchatny, MP of Reforms for the Future. Next up, Zabzauk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u12	Kamchat Valerius, MP of Reforms for the Future, Harkushkin. Our MP group is expressing concern about the issue that is of great concern to our citizens -- pension reform. It is known that today the pension insurance system is within the limits of our state’s financial capabilities and certainly requires immediate reform. And we've talked about this in this room not once. For example, about 13.7 million retirees are working for 14 million workers this year. So essentially one worker has to make money to keep one pensioner. But in our view, the position of the profile vice-premier Tihypak, who has not yet been offered a clear and clear concept of pension reform, cannot be taken as being true. Because a government draft of the Law on Legislative Measures to Reform the Pension System does not solve the conceptual problem of pension insurance. [[Registration number 7455]] It seems that its developers intended only to overcome the deficit of the Pension Fund. Instead, world practice proves that the solution to the complex tasks to which pension reform relates can only be implemented after the detailed design of the concept, a description of the future model under which the relevant legislative framework is developed, not the other way around. Instead, we are initially encouraged to take firm measures to balance the solidarity of the pension insurance system, which are not always economically justified. In particular, a package of measures aimed at legalizing wages has recently been proposed, but how? It is envisaged to impose severe fines for breach of salary periods, below the minimum wage, and so on. We believe that a similar increase in fines will result in wages not being legalized, but even more shaded, since it is possible to stimulate an increase in official wages by applying economic rather than repressive methods. In our view, pension reform can be an example of the experience of Germany, where a model of the pension system is introduced, which provides for 3 levels of pension insurance. Such a model has proven to be effective in practice and has become widespread in other countries of the European Union, to which we want to integrate. Not only does it allow citizens to grow old but it also allows them to invest in various forms of pension savings in the economy. That, once again, there is a positive impact on the economic growth and the increase in pension payments. So our faction is convinced that the introduction of the above-mentioned measures in conjunction with the childization of the economy will make it possible to equalize social security conditions. And we will make every effort to ensure that the pension reform results in a higher level of wages and pensions for all categories of persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u13	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, BUT-Batychina faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u14	Respectable compatriots! There is now no more painful and resonant issue in the state as the problem of the fate of our sister-in-law. The emotional debate that is taking place in the land market is very clear. Dozens of arguments, both pro and anti, have already spoken and continue to echo. On the other hand, we would like to stress such a thing. In Ukraine, 27,000 villages and nearly 7 million landowners. And with descendants, that's half of the adult population of Ukraine and the future destiny of each individual and state as a whole. They're not vegetables, they're not even houses to sell, they're land. You can get it solid, but once. And the loss of something meaningful will take place once and for all. That's the first and the main thing -- that's going to have to be in power day and night tens and hundreds of times profitable and patient to explain to people as much as possible to avoid thousands of conflicts and scandals. The other one. What does the authorities want as a result of land reform on the way out? Some say that the budget will be fabulously rich. By whom? The sellers, the poor peasants? Fear God! At the expense of the oligarch buyers? They won't understand you. There are arguments that there will be a strategic investor with solid money. That's true. Billions of green paper, unsecured, is already printed. They are just waiting for us to adjust with new ones, including foreign owners, to our fertile land. But then the roles can change. We're not gonna hire them, they're gonna hire us. In addition, you will feel that you are selling gifts, and foreign buyers will know that they will also possess territory, the territory of our sovereign state. Consider the consequences. It is also thought that the earth’s market will provide a new impetus to development. You know, world food prices today are such that the best help for peasants from the state is not to interfere. And in order to avoid Greek, peasant, flour scandals, buy every year 2-3 million tons of grain in the range through the Agrarian Fund and the Derezers and forget about deficits. Third. After the adoption of land market laws and land cadastre, the moratorium will essentially be no more. And the land is not just going to be a commodity, it's going to be a capital. This means that the cost of land as well as fertilizers, seeds, fuel will be included in the cost of food. Do not then marvel at the expensive bread and the bread. Take this into account when analyzing social moods. And the last. With the introduction of the earth’s market, there will be problems with its rent, which means natural pay for pies. And really, who's at risk of making contracts for a very questionable lease when there's a daily temptation to buy-sales? Now, count that every year the peasants rented pies received up to 3 million tons of grain and other food free of charge. As a result, two thirds of animal production in Ukraine’s consumer market is made up of personal agriculture. Who, and how quickly, compensates for the possible loss of 9 million tons of milk and almost 1.5 million tons of meat and much of the rural budget? It is because of their farming that farmers pay for expensive gas, electricity, medicine, and children’s education. In addition, leases over the years have saved large, mostly boutique ore arrays. What's going to happen to them tomorrow? In each of these fields, there are about 20 breadcrumbs. Their areas are already personalized. Some will sell, others won't. Fragmentation, misunderstandings are inevitable. These, and a number of others, are very unforgivable, can arise tomorrow. Are there any answers? Is it better in these circumstances and at this time to support the moratorium and stimulate agricultural production on lease terms rather than to engage in a sustainable, controversial and difficult reform? Is it better to trade grain, not land, or territory? The answer, of course, is for you. Don't be wrong! Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u15	Honorable national MPs, statements by authorized factions and groups have been completed. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate instructions for proposals, comments, and requirements that have been made in the speeches of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to Tuesday’s schedule. We need to make a decision to resolve the differences in the text of the two laws that have been passed. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the appropriate materials. The point is, please note that on March 15, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. [[on the order in which medical devices are imported into Ukraine]] When preparing the text of this law for signature, it reveals inconsistencies and inaccuracies. In particular, the law introduces imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of unregistered medical devices without the right to implement the military forces of other States, which, according to legislation, are admitted to Ukraine for participation in multinational international military training or for transit through Ukraine. This provision allows for a free understanding of transit, both in terms of the armed forces and in terms of medical supplies. The adopted norm is also in line with the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Admission and Conditions of residing in the Armed Forces of Other States in Ukraine, which narrows down the legal basis for the presence of the armed forces of other States in the territory of Ukraine. Taking into account the initiative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Committee on Health, and in accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, a proposal is being made to eliminate and present disagreements and inconsistencies in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the adopted law. First. Part three of article 17 of the Ukrainian Medical Services Act, after paragraph four, is supplemented by a new paragraph in the following terms: “Medical security without the right to implement the branches of the Armed Forces of other States which are legally admitted to the territory of Ukraine”. [[Report of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 1996, article 22, article 86]] In connection with this paragraph, the fifth is to be considered paragraph 6. The other one. This law takes effect on January 1, 2012. I'm betting on the vote on that clarification. Please vote. [[10:32:21]] For 251 Decision taken. Next, the distinguished national MPs. On 15 March 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed Ukrainian Laws, amending the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities and amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on State Social Assistance for the Care of War Disability]] [[on the provision of State social assistance to low-income families and persons with disabilities]] In particular, the two laws amended article 8 of the Ukrainian Act "On State Social Assistance to Persons Without a Retirement and Persons with Disabilities" between the provisions of which, when preparing the text of the law for signature to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there were inconsistencies. In view of the appeal of the Supreme Council Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons in accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council Rules for the Elimination of Disagreements between the Amendments to Article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance for Persons with Disabilities and Disabled Persons, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has proposed to clarify the provisions of section I of the Ukrainian Act on the Amendment of the Law on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities. [[on State Social Assistance for the Care of War Disability]] First. The second and fourth passages of the law that was passed were written in this way. Item 1. After words and figures, “to the persons mentioned in sub-paragraph "A" of paragraph 1 of the number of persons with disabilities belonging to sub-group "B" of the first group, add with words and figures: "in sub-paragraph 2 (a); in the number of persons with disabilities belonging to sub-group "B1" of the group who participated directly in the fighting during the Great War of 1941-1945 and in the war of 1945 with imperialist Japan." In paragraph 3, the words and digits “in paragraphs 2 except for the invalids referred to in subgroup “A1” of the group; 3, out of the number of single pensioners; 4 and 5” are replaced by the words “in paragraphs 2; in addition to the persons with disabilities mentioned in paragraphs 1.2, 4 and 5 of this article; 3, out of the number of single pensioners, 4 and 5”. Two: "To complete chapter one with paragraphs five and six of this content. Paragraph 4: After the words and figures “listed in subparagraph (a) of paragraph (1), add with the words and figures: “in sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 2 which participated directly in hostilities during the Great War of 1941-1945 and in the war of 1945 with imperialist Japan”. In paragraph 5, the words and digits “listed in paragraphs 2 and 5” shall be replaced by the words and digits “listed in paragraph 2 (a), except for the persons with disabilities mentioned in paragraph 4 of this article, paragraph 5”. Offer. Dear colleagues, what may be the discussion? I'll put it to a vote, please. I want to do it again: it's not a discussion. You've been handed over, read it all. Vote, please. Please vote. [[10:36:13]] For 290 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the calendar of our work on May 10th, we are scheduled to hold a plenary meeting. At the meeting of the Conciliation Council, a proposal was discussed and supported for us to take a decision with you to change our calendar plan in view of the fact that on 9 May the deputies would be in the districts with the veterans and our people celebrating Victory Day, so that we would not be working in plenary on 10 May, and on Wednesday 11 May at 9 a.m., the Conciliation Council would start working in plenary from 10 a.m., and at 15 a.m. we would have to have a parliamentary hearing on the subject: "On the state and prospects of economic relations with the European Union, the Free Trade Zone and the Customs Union." In connection with the proposal of the Conciliation Council of Deputies of 18 April 2011 and in accordance with part two of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, it is proposed that a one-time change be made to the weekly 10-13 May agenda of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the provision of 10 May for the work of Ukrainian national deputies in districts, committees, commissions and factions, and 11 May for the Conciliation Council at 9 p.m., the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and at 15 hours for parliamentary hearings. Such a decision, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, is not required by a separate decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but is taken by a majority of the votes of the Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition, which is reported in the minutes of the plenary session. Is there no objection to such an offer? I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:38:50]] For 278 Decision taken. So, your honorary colleagues, the 10th of May MPs work, so we work in districts, committees and factions. On May 11, at 9 a.m., a meeting of the Conciliation Council. We've been working in plenary mode since 10 o'clock on Wednesday, which is the day of the opposition. At 3 p.m., parliamentary hearings. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to put a daily set of drafts into order. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of excessive government regulation in the field of road transport. [[Registration number 8397]] Please vote. [[10:40:10]] For 264 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Measures to Combat and Abuse the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors. [[Registration number 8158]] Please vote. [[10:40:48]] For 262 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the violation of the requirements of State Export Control legislation. [[Registration number 8211]] Please vote. [[10:41:26]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the organization of the functions of State authorities in electricity. [[Registration number 8152]] Please vote. [[10:42:01]] For 255 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of settlement in foreign currency. [[on nuclear fuel calculations for AES Ukraine]] [[Registration number 8119]] Please vote. [[10:42:37]] For 256 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the conduct of activities in the stock market. [[Registration number 8120]] Please vote. [[10:43:12]] For 256 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine on accounting matters. [[Registration number 8194]] Please vote. [[10:43:43:43]] For 260 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine on UEFA Taxation. [[Registration number 8332]] Please vote. [[10:44:15]] For 260 Decision taken. I would like to place a motion for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. [[on the identification of the State Environmental Investment Agency as the main cost manager]] [[Registration number 8373]] Please vote. [[10:44:52]] For 253 Decision taken. Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and approving export duty rates for certain types of cereals. [[Export]] [[Registration number 8321]] Please vote. [[10:45:25]] For 259. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the State Land cadastre Act. [[Registration number 8077]] Please vote. [[10:45:51]] For 241 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. [[on the granting of state-owned credit to individual rural builders]] [[Registration number 8126]] Please vote. [[10:46:26]] For-127 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. The Party of the Regions - 11, "BUT - "Fatherhood" - 37, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 14, communists - 25, "Reforms for the Future" -16, "The People's Party - 19, non-factional - 5. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts. [[on improving the institutional and legal framework for the fight against crime and corruption]] [[Registration number 8255]] Please vote. [[10:47:16]] For 264 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the decree to mark the 120th anniversary of the birth of the founders of the Zacarpathian painting school of Adalbert Mikhailovich Erdeli and Joseph Josephovich Boxhay. [[Registration number 8183]] Please vote. [[10:47:55]] For 308. Decision taken. I'm voting for a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a decree marking the 70th anniversary of the guerrilla movement in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8196]] Please vote. [[10:48:22]] For 265 Decision taken. Thank you. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the Order on the Celebration of the 200th anniversary of Eugene Grebinka's birth. [[Registration number 8226]] Please vote. [[10:48:52]] For the 320. Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. Order to mark the 120th anniversary of the birth of Eugene Konovaltz, please be sure. [[Registration number 8237]] [[10:49:24]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the Order on the Celebration of the 200th anniversary of Markian Shaškević's birth, so we only include it in the agenda, this is the order of the day only, we are. [[Registration number.]] [[Registration number 8322]] Please vote, it's our decision. [[10:50:03]] For 281 Decision taken. Thank you. I would like to vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Decision on Ukraine's participation in the formation of a single economic space with Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation and the development of mutually beneficial economic cooperation. [[EP]] [[Registration number 8151]] Please be sure. [[10:50:44]] For-33 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great War of 1941-1945. [[on the order in which copies of the Victory Flag are officially used]] [[Registration number 8157]] Please vote [[10:51:26]] For the 250. Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 181, "BUT – "Fatherhood" – 2, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 1, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 12, National Party – 20, non-factional – 9. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Law on the Higher Council of Justice and the Code of Administrative Offences for the Implementation of the Decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[Registration numbers 8246, 8246-1, 8246-2]] Please vote. [[10:52:23]] For 287 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. [[on the change in the source of payments of administrative sanctions and pennies]] [[Registration number 8302]] Please vote. [[10:53:03]] For 266 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 138 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on the change in the source of payments of administrative sanctions and pennies]] [[Registration number 8303]] Please vote. [[10:53:35]] For 243 Decision taken. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 is put to the vote. [[on the financing of the road economy]] [[Registration number 8399]] Please vote. [[10:54:08]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, another question in this chapter. At the Conciliation Council, we talked about this and we made a proposal to include in the agenda a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to create a museum of Chernobyl Polissy. It means that all the cultural acquisitions that have been taken out of the Chernobyl area need a suitable place to store them and leave them for the offspring. If you don't mind, we'd put this in the agenda. And when the committee's ready, tomorrow we can look at it. It's humanitarian. This is linked to the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the Order on the Recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the creation of the Museum of Chernobyl. [[Registration number 8272]] Please vote. [[10:55:27]] For 311 Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, all the bills included in the agenda, will be drafted by the relevant Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council Order of Ukraine on the Order of the Day Session. And I ask the relevant committees to provide operational preparations for the Supreme Council of Ukraine's consideration of the draft bills that we have just incorporated into the agenda so that we can consider them immediately. Dear National Deputies! According to paragraph 15 of the first part of article 27 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, two factions: the “BUT” faction, the “Fatherhood”, the “Our Ukraine – National Self-defence” faction, require a recess to hold consultations on the order of the day and to issue a statement. But these two factions are now ready to make a statement, please, Roman Zabzaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u16	April 29th of this year will be one year from the signing of the current authority of the so-called "harkiv treaties". By giving Sevastopol in the lifetime use of the Russian Federation Navy, President Yanukovic, the representatives of the Party of the Regions vowed to the Ukrainian people that such signing would cost the Russian gas and the price for it would not rise under any circumstances for Ukrainian citizens. However, the cost of gas for the population under the absolute authority of the Party of Regions led by Yanukovic has already been raised twice. Moreover, Ukrainian society has found it impossible to defend national interests, inability to contain the economic situation, to curb rising food prices, tariffs, gasoline, and at least one promise, not to raise the price of gas for the population. Instead, all the authorities are trying to translate their failures into the ex-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Julius Timoshenko, creating so-called provocative commissions and opening ridiculous and pretentious criminal cases. The initiators of these provocations are reminded that the agreements that were then concluded between NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and Gazprom on the supply of Russian gas to Ukraine were based on standard international formulas. In addition, despite the fierce pressure from Gazprom, Ukraine then failed to comply with its integrity, no state strategic object was given, the energy security of our state was not violated and, most importantly, the gas prices for the population were not raised. Thus, the signing of the "harkov treaties" by Viktor Yanukovic and their subsequent ratification in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is an open surrender of Ukraine's national interests. In continuing its anti-national course, today's authorities are making another manipulative attempt under the pretext of allegedly getting another so-called turn-up virtual discount on Russian gas, making an entrance to the Customs Union, thereby questioning Ukraine's economic independence and overturning any prospect of European integration. In view of this, the Fräulein of Yulia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland", insists on an immediate reduction in the price of gas for citizens and the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry in the Supreme Council to investigate in detail the anti-constitutional signing of the so-called "harkov treaties", a powerful method of ratifying them in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If the commission's work will result in gross violations of Ukrainian legislation in the ratification process, failure to comply with the provisions of the existing treaties, the faction of "The Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherland" will insist on nullification of valid treaties in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u17	Let us now consider the questions of second reading. We are considering a draft Act amending article 121 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. [[on guarantees and compensations in service missions]] [[Registration number 7183]] The committee reports to Vladimir Stanislavovich Maruschenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! On November 30, 2010, the law was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading. In order to prepare him for second reading, a working group was set up to include national deputies, representatives of relevant ministries, all - Ukrainian trade unions, and employers ’ associations and organizations. The working group was working on the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies. As a result, the committee was presented, agreed upon by all members of the working group, with the drafting of part four of article 121 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, which was approved by the committee on December 22, 2010. Thus, the draft law, adopted in the first reading, was supplemented by the provision for the retention of employees assigned to the service, the average wage during all working days on a schedule set by the place of permanent work. However, the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine noted that the committee’s drafting of the bill contradicts article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution and should be rejected. On January 13, 2011, the Supreme Council returned a bill to amend article 21 of the Code of Law on Work to the Committee for Refinement and Re-reading, taking into account the observation made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority. A working group was re-created to finalize the bill. However, none of the proposals were supported by the working group, taking into account the comments made by the Chief Legal Authority. In view of this, a draft law was introduced by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading, the Cabinet of Ministers. On March 2, 2011, the committee agreed to the decision and suggested that the draft law be adopted in a second reading and in general. With regard to the rejected proposals regarding the entry into force of the law of 1 January 2011, according to the conclusions of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budgeting, the implementation of the project does not lead to an increase in expenditure or the loss of revenue of the budget, so the law may become effective from the date of its publication. I mean, your honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council is offering to be accepted in second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u19	Thank you. Let's get some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u20	No changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u21	No, there's an amendment, and they're rejected. Why are there no amendments? What's the big deal? No, it's not. Pavlovsky, 2nd Amendment. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u22	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." However, it is not clear to me, Your Honor, that you have taken into account the legal authorities' observation that the day of departure and the day of arrival should be taken into account for the payment of a person's departure. So that this may not be the turn of the workers ’ social rights when they simply do not receive payment on their day of arrival and departure. And then it comes out that's the purpose of this law. And what's more, it's going to touch everyone, including the national MPs. I don't understand. And so I would suggest that I be very careful not to support it in my second reading. Thank you. And to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u23	Yeah, the committee didn't count. I'm voting on the 2th amendment to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:03:51]] For-26 Not supported. 3 revisions. Carpupuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u24	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Honorable national MPs, if you don't accept the amendment proposed, whether in an editorial that was Pavlovsky or mine, or even a better option, Carmazina, will lead to a deterioration in the social situation of the people who work. And there are people who are constantly working on the watch method, they spend a lot of time on the road, and they spend a lot of money on it. Unpaid work, unpaid work during these days, during travel, will indeed make their situation worse. And I insist on voting and listening to the amendments we make.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u25	The 3rd amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:04:55]] For-34 Not supported. 4th Amendment. Carmazine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u26	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, let's think about what's going on. There are changes -- and I'll remind those who don't know -- to article 121 of the Labour Code, where the rights of people who travel are getting worse with regard to those who are. Because of this, the observations were absolutely correct, in fact, both the national deputies of Karpuk and Pavlovsky; the very right conclusion was the Chief Legal Authority. I propose part four in this paper: "Workers who are assigned to the assignment service are paid for while they are away, including travel days to and from the destination, and working days per schedule are carried out according to the terms of the work contract or collective agreement. And the size of that salary can't be lower than the average wage of that employee." I would like to stress that it is necessary that we do not aggravate what is provided for in article 22.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u27	The 4th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:06:28]] For-38 Not supported. Yeah, the 6th amendment of Carmazin, although they're the 4th. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist? It's similar to 4th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely thank those 38 people who have supported my amendment and I want to tell you that look carefully, everything is being done to narrow down citizens' rights now. And is there a national MP for that to make things worse? There's no new Labour Code, and there's worse. As a result, I look at the factions that are also treating themselves as opposition today, especially the Communist factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to see why they're now being extended by the government in a valid manner, how citizens' rights are being challenged. I insist that the days of the employee’s journey to and from the place of destination and the days of work should be equal to the average wage of the employee. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u29	Karmazin’s 6th amendment to the vote. [[11:08:04]] For-33 Not supported. Yeah, next round, 7th. Don't insist. Carmazine, 8th Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u30	8 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. This law applies to the taking of effect. Obviously, if it becomes effective by the end of the year, people will continue to rob, regardless of the criminal tariffs, the price of electricity, the gas, and now pay for Telek. This is the only authority that sold the Shrimp in a month without a penny, 30 percent raise people's wages. Are we thinking about doing something about it, or are we pretending that nothing is happening, Vladimir Mikhailovich? That is why I propose that, in accordance with the Budget Code, if you even accept such an anti-national thing, this law will take effect from 1 January 2012, not as it is now, from the time of publication as you write. Thank you and please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u31	The vote is amended by 8th Carmazin. [[11:09:37]] For-32 Not supported. We've been through all the repairs. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole as a law amending 121 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. [[on guarantees of compensation in service missions]] [[Registration number 7183]] Please vote. [[11:10:11]] For the 220. The decision is not supported. Who's in charge of getting back to the vote, please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u32	Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u33	People's deputies have a right. [[11:10:39]] For 244 Dear colleagues, I am the one who shouts at you that you can't do, please look at the Rules. The chairman shall have the right to propose a vote on the return to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u34	Adam Ivanovich, was 220. Why are you so anti-national?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u35	And there were proposals that confirmed that 244 would go back to voting. We're back. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending article 121 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. [[on guarantees and compensations in service missions]] [[Registration number 7183]] Please vote. [[11:11:32]] For 246 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. [[concerning the import and export of alcohol]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number 6379]] The committee reports to Pinchuk Andri Pavlovich. Who's from the committee? Hometicist Vitaly Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u36	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, drafts prepared for the second reading and those proposals from the national deputies who came in are as well considered as possible. The only comment was on the previous consideration of this bill 6379, which was that the amendments of the Bondarenko People's Deputy, which did not comply with regulatory procedures, were not relevant to the substance of the bill. So the fundamentals of all positions are, all the amendments are also given out, there are few, there are seven amendments, most of them included. So there is a proposal to adopt this law in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u37	Thank you. Who insists on repairs? Carmazine, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u38	Yuri Carmazin, Amendment 6. I propose the first sentence of part six of article 14, which reads: "The annual licence fee for the export of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, the alcohol of ethyl retitified, grape, alcohol of ethyl retitified fruit is 780 bracelets, and the import of these alcohols is 5,000 bracelets." I'm told that this doesn't fit the rules of the WTO and increases the annual fee on the license. But I think in this case we can fill in the budget. And that's why the hundred won't fill our budget, first. Secondly, I haven't seen anything like it in the Soviet papers that forbids us to set up any salaries.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u39	We have a letter from the Ministry of Economics, and we will give you this letter separately, which tells you about a certain rule of the World Trade Organization and that these positions do not conform to these rules. And also, indeed, 6.4 times the price of the license increases, which is also, in our view, a very and very large increase and unwarranted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u40	Karmazin’s 6th amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:15:24]] For-13. Not supported. The rest of the colleagues don't insist. I put to the vote a proposal for adoption in the second reading and generally as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. [[concerning the import and export of alcohol]] [[Bill 6379 registration number]] Please vote. [[11:16:04]] For 238. The law is passed. We are considering a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on insider information (registration number 7330). Second reading. Report to the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Prassolov Igor Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u41	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! The main objective of the draft bill, which we are currently considering on second reading, is to implement the commitments made by the Government of Ukraine previously made by the FATF on the Council of Europe Convention against Money-Laundering. Since the use of insider information relates to so-called pre-existing crimes, there is therefore a need to amend a number of laws relating to insider information. The bill had been amended 14 times, two of which had been taken into account editorially and the rest had been taken fully into account. So I'll call the basics. Article 232 distinguishes the positions, in the Criminal Code, from the offences related to the transfer of insider information and offences related to the use of insider information in trade and, accordingly, the receipt of certain income from the use of such insider information. Similarly, the threshold of sanctions for insider trading will be somewhat lower from 3 to 2 years. In particular, I would like to emphasize that there remain very severe penalties, which are linked to the use of insider information once again, by conspiracy, or the severe consequences that have arisen, particularly by organizational groups. The maximum penalty for this offence is five years. We also discussed this a lot on the committee, decided to increase the financial responsibility of companies involved in insider trading. Large fines are therefore provided for. For legal entities, professional participants in the stock market, who have repeatedly engaged in the offence, for example, up to 100,000 unladen minimums or up to 300 per cent of the profits derived from such violations. Another important aspect is that the law obliges stock exchanges to report on insider transactions held at the Stock Market and Securities Commission. Dear colleagues, I strongly ask you to support the decision of our committee to adopt this bill on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u42	Okay, let's move on to the amendments. Please, the absolute majority of them are accounted for. Yes, Carmazin, the 10 revisions are edited. Don't insist. Yes, we're all accounted for. Yes, therefore, fellow honourable Members, we have reason to put Bill number 7330 -- draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on insider information on the adoption of it as a whole as a law. Please vote. Vote. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u43	On a very simple basis. Who wanted to make a statement? I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u44	Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u45	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, Adam Ivanovich, why did we have such a break under this bill? We had a very long discussion today at the faction: what will give us the introduction of this bill? And professionals who are professionally involved in this issue have some fear that through this bill any person who will not even be involved in the direct dissemination of insider information can be brought to justice. This may be the case when we have to accept this document, but we have to go step by step. Identify the category of persons directly involved in the possession of insider information, first and foremost, to identify them and to record them in this document. But it's not like you're gonna let all the possible people down. Moreover, we have submitted an appropriate addition to this bill. Unfortunately, get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u46	Give me a chance to finish. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u47	Regrettably, the Committee was unable to take this supplement into account. Therefore, we would very much like to ask Vladimir Mihajlovich for a second reread of this law. It will certainly be accepted, but a number of positions need to be refined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u48	No one has any further comments or suggestions? Dear colleagues, then let's go as required by the Rules, first the Committee's proposal, and if it's not supported, then the second. The committee's proposal to accept it in second reading and generally as a law. I am voting on this proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on insider information. [[Registration number 7330]] Please vote. [[11:23:05]] For-24 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to re-read the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on insider information. [[Registration number 7330]] Please vote. [[11:23:35]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! Here we go to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on rights relating to the property of minors and the prevention of corruption in the granting of custody and care permits]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's committee on legal policy, Elina Viktorovn Shishkin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u49	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting considered a bill prepared for the second time under registration number 6189 to amend certain laws of Ukraine. [[on rights relating to the property of minors and the prevention of corruption in the granting of custody and care permits]] I will point out that this bill has been developed for second reading, taking into account the proposals of the Ministry of Law and the proposals made by the Ministry of Youth. Only 18 amendments to the bill were made to the committee, and only 6 of them, or one third, were rejected. The Committee also took into account in particular the first amendment requested by the authors to make the title of the bill as follows: “The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Improving the Order of Custody and Caring for Allowances for the Real Estate of Children”. I will also point out that this bill applies primarily to the protection of the property rights of children, orphans and children deprived of parental care for the commission of their rights. Thank you. The Committee requests the Supreme Council to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u50	Dear National Deputies! We must now vote separately for the precise name of the law. The committee considered the proposal. The draft Law is now entitled “To amend certain laws of Ukraine”. [[on improving the procedures for the granting of custody and custody of rights in respect of children's immovable property]] May I have your attention, fellow officers? I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[11:26:18]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, who insists on amendments that are unaccounted for? A number of amendments by Vladimir Yavorowski are not included. What's the amendment, Yuri Carmazin?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u51	Microphone, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the content of Amendment No. 7 is extremely simple. The point is that we standardize when custody and care authorities may refuse to grant permission and what cases. To the point "g" of this article, part four of article 177 of the Ukrainian Family Code, I propose, where it is now written that if false reports are reported that are essential to resolving the issue of authorisation, it is such an amorphous definition. And I would like to write specifically: "The person who applied for permission was not respected by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the requirements of form, content and procedure for the application of permission; or this person has reported false information that is essential to the issue of whether permission is granted or refused." I consider such an editorial to be more legally perfect than what is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u53	Yes, please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u54	The committee considered all the amendments carefully, and the committee did not take it into account in this regard, since the failure to comply with the procedural requirements of the application only delays the issue of the granting of the permit. And the amendment contains such an expression as "were not maintained by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." And so on and so forth. The Committee believes that these issues can be settled by means of a secondary act, particularly those that the government should develop to implement the proposed part of article 177 of the Ukrainian Family Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment No. 7 of the National Deputies Group, including Yuri Carmazin, who is the author of this amendment. Please be sure. [[11:28:45]] For-7. Correction not supported. No other comments? Then, honourable colleagues, vote on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law on second reading and generally as a law. There is no chief legal authority to comment on the bill. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[11:29:23]] For 272 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act is being submitted to your consideration. [[to accompany medical advertising with warnings of the threat of self-medication]] [[Registration number 4708]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Freedom of speech and information, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u56	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, allow me to state the unanimous decision of the Freedom of Speech Committee regarding a bill aimed at forming responsible health and reducing the negative effects of uncontrolled medication in our fellow citizens. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information had three amendments to the Rules, which had been considered by the committee. Two amendments were counted, one was rejected. In accordance with the decision of the Committee approved at its meeting on 12 January 2011, the draft Law amending article 21 of the Advertising Act was recommended for adoption in a second reading and in general. [[Registration number 4708]] The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council has no comments on the bill and notes that it can be accepted on second reading and in general. Please support the committee's position and take into account the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u57	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u58	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Sir, the venerable nar, the wrong table. No one paid attention to this, including the legal system. Why? Because I am making changes to paragraph 1 of the draft text: "To supplement part four of article 21 of the Advertising Act with paragraph five of such content, because part four does not have the point: "advertise medical devices, medical techniques, methods of prevention, diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation should contain." And the fifth part of the fourth part of article 21 reads as follows: "text of warning of such content," and goes the text. I suggest you write this down: "Self-medication can be harmful to your health, which in the case of distribution of drugs: printed or external advertising on TV, in movies or on the Internet is constantly occupied by at least 15 percent of the area."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u59	Come on. Yuri Anatolyevich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, because there are actually two amendments. "..not less than 15 percent of the total advertising area, and the text color must be in contrast to the background of the warning." And point "b" is: "Radio constantly takes at least 15 percent of the duration of all advertising." Ladies and gentlemen, you've been receiving letters from voters who have somehow fallen for unsuspecting advertising. They say, "We don't understand from the text of that commercial that's on TV or that's on the radio or that's printed." That's why I'm asking the question that there should be at least 15 percent of advertising.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u61	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u62	The committee’s position is that in fact the amendment of Yuri Anatoliyovich is an alternative to the amendment of Karpuk, which is also taken into account, which says that self - medication can be harmful to your health, and the text should contain at least 15 percent of the area or length of all advertising. That is, the committee did not take into account Karmazin’s amendment in view of what it considered to be too detailed. And it doesn't really affect the essence, because it's completely open in the Carpupuk amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u63	Amendment 2, Yuri Karmazin, is put to the vote. [[11:33:52]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's proposal is to adopt the bill as a law. The Chief Legal Authority has no comment on the draft bill. I'm voting for a second reading proposal and, as a whole, a bill amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[to accompany medical advertising with warnings of the threat of self-medication]] [[Registration number 4708]] Please vote. [[11:34:43]] For 285 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear National MPs, I'm announcing a bill for the Volunteer Movement Act. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports, and Tourism. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u64	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee has made careful preparations for the second reading of the draft Law on Volunteering. In adopting the bill as a basis for both the Ukrainian people's deputies and the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Pritika noted that the bill needed substantial elaboration and specificization of its norms. The draft Law on the Volunteer Movement of Ukraine was amended by 73 members of the people of Ukraine. Of these, 25 amendments were taken into account, 26 were partially taken into account and 22 were rejected. The Committee supported the amendment of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, Mr. Steshenko, to change the title of the law to the law on volunteering, since this was more consistent with the content of the bill. Due to the requirements of standard-setting technology, the position of the articles has been changed. On the proposals of volunteer organizations and charities to expand the range of potential volunteers, it is proposed that the volunteer organization be a legal entity engaged without the purpose of profit-making and volunteering under the requirements of the Act. The submission to a person of the status of a volunteer organization shall be made by the central executive body in the field of volunteering on the basis of a written statement on behalf of that legal person. It is proposed to determine that a volunteer has the right to volunteer solely through the conclusion of a volunteering contract for a volunteer organization. However, a volunteer organization has the right to volunteer by entering into a voluntary assistance agreement with the recipient. In the opinion of members of the Committee, the obligation of the treaty would protect both volunteers and volunteers from conflict situations. It is proposed that a legal entity be deprived of the status of a volunteer organization in connection with a violation of volunteer legislation that will protect volunteers from abuse by volunteers and volunteer organizations. I would like to point out the great assistance provided by specialists from the General Legal Office in the drafting of the bill. I also emphasize the fact that the adoption of the Volunteering Act is part of Ukraine's commitment to UEFA in deciding on the 2012 European Championship for Football. The Committee proposes the adoption of the bill as a whole, I would like to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the title of the Bill on Volunteering, we must vote in favour of this name. Please note, I am voting in favour of a proposal by the Committee to clarify the name of the draft Law on Volunteering. It used to be about volunteering. Please vote. [[11:38:29]] For 260 Decision taken. Now let's go to the repairs. Amendment 8th, Vladimir Yavorowski. Are you insisting on her? The point is, your first amendment to repeal the law. If he doesn't. Well, please, 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I made some amendments to this law. But when I analyzed it, I concluded that in principle it would be advisable to reject such a law. Because volunteer organisations are a variety of social organizations whose activities are governed by citizens' unification laws, charities and charities, other laws that contain sufficient legal preconditions for the development of volunteer movement. Otherwise, we will have to pass separate laws on voluntary tourism organizations or on the organization of dog lovers, cats, and so forth. That's why I wanted you and me to stay out of the way about mice, rats, and so on, so we wouldn't have to adopt laws. To make this a general law on unity, we could make separate chapters. I urge you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u67	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote for the 1st Yuri Karmazin amendment. Please identify yourself. [[11:40:18]] For -6 The proposal is not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 10. Does the executioner insist on her? No, it's not. 12th and 13th. No, it's not. Tushenko, 15th repair. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 21st Amendment, Carmazin. Are you insisting on her? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u68	Yuri Carmazin. I propose that part two of article 5 of the bill be made available in such an editorial. "Governmental authorities, local self-government authorities and specific enterprises, institutions and organizations that intend to involve a volunteer or volunteer organization in the performance of their jobs, provide services to recipients of volunteer assistance, post this information on their official websites." Keep in mind that I'm only talking about those. This amendment concerns public authorities, local self-government and enterprises, institutions and organizations. I mean, I want there to be openness, and we don't have to go somewhere else, and there's something going on. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u69	Is there any reason on the committee or do we put it to a vote? Dear colleagues, the 21st Amendment of Yuri Carmazin is being voted on. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:42:06]] Z-11. Repair is not supported. Heresy, the 25th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Shamanov, 46th. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Stishenko, are you insisting? 58th. No, it's not. Carmazine, 63. Is she insisting on it? It is included in part in article 11. Oh, no? No, it's not. So it's 66. Yuri Carmazin. It's partially accounted for. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u70	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm paying attention to you, including "speakers or moving hands," and I'm noting that the first reading said, "what is the harm done by a volunteer is being compensated in full." Now all of a sudden, it's gone. The point of my amendment is what I'm asking you to write down in the first part of article 17 is this: "the damage done by a volunteer during volunteering is compensated in full by an organization on whose behalf he acts, except for direct purpose." This will be in line with the basic beginnings of civil responsibility that must be provided for by this law. I don't understand why we didn't want to take it into account, but we took it into account. I'll ask you later for the reasons of 67th, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to give me my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u71	Puts to the vote 66 amendments. The author is Yuri Karmazin. [[11:45:04]] For-23 The amendment is not accepted. Vladimir Yavorowski, amendment 64.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I made an amendment because I think it's still necessary to make it clear that volunteers must have some kind of reward either from the organization that involved them or from the volunteer organization itself. And, of course, give them the opportunity, if he wants to be absolutely, as it were, a pure volunteer, to voluntarily give it up. I would insist, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that she be put to the vote. But I realize that 56 or fewer votes are going to be won, so I'm going to give it up. Because most of what I don't bring, they're still like that. And it's not just me and Carmazin that they're still giving it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, George Carmazin insists that the vote be put to the vote. One minute to confirm amendment 67. This is Yuri Carmazin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, it is suggested that part two of article 17 be deleted. What was written in part two? "For failing to report on the use of funds provided to volunteer organizations on the basis of the contract provided for in article 7 of the Act, or their purpose of use, to obtain these funds in violation of the law, the perpetrators are liable, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine.".. Now this part is being thrown out, and I don't know why. You absolutely have to bet on confirmation, because in the first reading, if you leave this law being passed, it has to stay, the editor of the first reading, it was much better. The first part, too, has been changed in this article, see if it has also deteriorated in the final edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Amendment 67, authors are national deputies Jereshko and Steshenko, accounted for. At the same time, Yuri Carmazin insists on the need for a vote to confirm this amendment. I'm voting on Amendment 67 to confirm it. Please vote. [[11:47:54]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all other amendments are included. There is no chief legal authority to comment on the bill. I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill for the draft Ukrainian Act on Volunteering. Please vote. [[Registration number 5266]] [[11:48:34]] For 270. The law is passed. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now submitting to your consideration a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the order of payment of services provided by natural monopolies. [[Registration number 7420]] Mikola Martinenko is the head of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u76	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, have considered the status of preparation for the second reading, adopted at the first reading on 17 February this year, of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the organization of payment of services provided by natural monopolies by the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7420]] The Committee notes that in connection with the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 17, 2011, the Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities, the provision of the Act and the draft Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts on the organization of payment of services provided by natural monopolies entities should be harmonized, since both contain positions aimed at settling the same circle of issues, namely, the integration of consumers into engineering networks. [[Registration number 7420]] After examining the situation, the committee concluded that Bill 7420 could not be prepared for second reading without violating article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. Taking into account the above, as well as the fact that members of the committee are preparing a new bill on this issue, the Committee considers it appropriate to recommend the following to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First. Remove the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the organization of payment of services provided by natural monopolies entities submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[No.7420]] The other one. Admitting that the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 17.02 had become invalid. 2011 No.3051-6 on the adoption as a basis of the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the organization of payment of services provided by natural monopolies. Therefore, I would like to support the committee's draft Order on the Withdrawal of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Ordering of Payments of Services Provided by Subjects of Natural Monopolies. [[Registration number 7420]] I would like to add that the draft decision was also discussed at committee hearings, which were specially drafted on two bills, both for 7,420 and for Bill 7418, which has already been adopted. Both the position of the people's deputies and the public was unanimous -- to go that way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u77	Thank you. Honourable National MPs, when there is no objection, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on the withdrawal from the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Order of Payments of Services Provided by Subjects of Natural Monopolies. [[Registration number 7420/P1]] Please vote. [[11:52:34]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear People's Deputies, we still have a draft decree to change and establish the boundaries of the city of Ljuboml in the Luboml district of Volin County, this is registration number 8317. Here, come on now from the committee, the head of the State Building and Local Self-Government subcommittee Vasil Vasilovitch Demčin. Let's take a brief vote and take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine was approached by the Wallin District Council with concern about the change and establishment of the city of Ljuboml in the Luboml district of Volin. The project to change the boundaries of the city of Ljuboml is developed by the State Enterprise Volin Research and Project Institute of the Land. The need to establish a new border of the city of Luboml is due to changes in the composition and configurations of land under which the city borders. New housing, land reform, and utility facilities are needed. Today, there is a need to adjust the master plan to take into account the objects around the city and to develop the necessary infrastructure. In particular, the provision of water and water, sanitation, street lighting, and their well - being. The area of Luboml is 965 acres [965 ha], and it has remained unchanged for 36 years. During this time, however, housing and public construction were carried out both within and outside the city. Outside the city, more than 100 dwellings, a cemetery, and a gas station were built. According to the project, it is proposed that the city of Luboml be increased by 233.6 hectares. Including the 218.26 hectares of land in the knowledge of the Birkow Rural Council of the Luboml district, 14.29 acres [14.29 ha] in the knowledge of the Zapil Rural Council of the same area, 1.05 acres [1.05 ha] of land in the Viszný village council. The city of Luboml has a total area of 1198.6 acres [1198.6 ha]. The question of changing the city’s boundaries is in line with legislation. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations has been discussed and supported by all of the above-mentioned rural councils and the government. On March 2, this year, the State Building and Local Government Committee discussed the issue at its meeting and proposed to support the submission of the Volin District Council on changing and establishing the boundaries of the city of Ljuboml in the Luboml district of Volin district and the concerns of the territorial community of the city of Luboml. People's deputies, please support the appropriate decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, no objection? () [[B in m in s a l in]] Vladimir Karpuk, please. One minute, Vladimir Karpuk, come on, we have to call it a twelve-hour break. Please, Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u80	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I understand that it will be supported and thank you for your support, because this is really an impetus for the development of the city. Although there's something about the text of the decree itself, I'll explain. descriptions, correct immediately so that they do not change. It refers to the city of Luboml, in the Luboml district of Poltava, in the last paragraph, page. It's a technical error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u81	Thank you for your clarification. Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, indeed, have studied this issue for all levels, both rural and urban, and district, and Wallin County. And I think it's absolutely an acceptable question, supported by all the committees. This is the gate, to some extent, to Ukraine on the side of Poland. And the city of Lummel has an ancient and glorious history. And let's all vote now for the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u84	Yuri Carmazin. I have a question about what I have seen of the land being passed on to 151 acres [151 ha] and 15 acres [15 ha], and the forests also 8 hectares [8 ha]. I'd like to ask what their fate will be after the transfer? What, then, will be on earth that we have, the Lord will not give us any more agricultural assignments, and what will happen to the forests? Because we can already see around Kiev with the woods. What about the forests, whether they are destroyed or the restaurants near Kiev will be built and everything else, and no one will respond to anything at all? Any questions? I couldn't find that answer in the explanatory notes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u85	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. The fact is that the hectares you called were already built. There. And this is the land where the hospital is located, this is the road around Lubomil. That's what they write. That's all of them. There's no other way to write it, a kind of thing that's been built and used a long time ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u86	Sergey Shevchuk, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a long time ago. The question of expanding the city’s borders was raised as a yet missed call. Therefore, it must be taken with certainty. With regard to the land and the forest, if the honourable colleagues were in those lands, this is the Wallin Police, this is the Torpians, this is a special forest, so there will be no great harm. Rather, it is the expansion of a city that is the gateway to a united Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for a draft Order amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Ljuboml, the Luboml district of Volin. [[Registration number 8317]] Please vote. [[11:59:29]] For 299 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a 40-minute recess, up to 12 hours 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Judicial Congregation has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Valerius Pisarenko. And you're going to report it? All right, we got a deal. Dear colleagues, the author suggests that we consider a reduced procedure. But I can see now that we can't make a decision. So let's maybe do it this way. Now the reporter, Valery Pisarenko, will report, then Yuri Karakai, from the committee. And I'd like to ask, dear colleagues, there are no people. Well, it won't go away now, that offer. Dear colleagues, I think that the authors will be concise, the essence of the problem is understood, so that we can look at all of the things that are scheduled for today. Please, Valery Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your consideration is proposed by the draft Law on the Judicial Assembly, which provides for the establishment of legal principles for the administration of a judicial assembly in accordance with the rules of the Ukrainian Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Administrative Judiciality. These procedural codes provide for the adoption of a special law on the administration of the judicial assembly and provide for the taking of effect of such a law, and when referring the court to a court, the court is paid in the order and extent established by the law for public service. The bill defines the concepts of the judicial congregation, the payers and the objects of the procedure, the size of the rates, the payment benefits, the order of payment and the return of the court, the grounds for the postponement and delay of the payment of the court’s fees, the reduction of the amount or the release from payment, and the direction of the court. Subjects for the administration of the judicial assembly in the draft law are determined according to the rules of the existing procedural codes. The rates of the court are proposed to establish in parts of the minimum wage established by the law on 1 January of the calendar year, a percentage of the corresponding price of the lawsuit, to a fixed extent, taking into account the economic changes in the state that took place during the adoption of the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs. With a view to encouraging operators to observe contractual discipline, it is proposed that the payment of the court’s payment to the household court be determined in a larger way than civil court-martials. That is, the general principle is that we do not increase the payment of court fees to citizens, but we do strengthen it for the owners, so that today the courts, which do not even have the ability to send cards to the parties, will be given the opportunity. In preparing the project, the constitutional principle of equality of all the parties to the trial before the law and the court, as enshrined in article 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine, including for the authorities of the State. In this regard, a substantial reduction in the aid paid by the court in comparison with the amount of the aid provided by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers for State Customs is proposed. The court’s full scope is proposed to join the Special Fund of the State Budget of Ukraine, which will allow for the formalization and normalization of all the judicial congregations to be paid. The bill also provides for amendments to the following legislative acts: The Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Administrative Justice, the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on State Customs, the Law on Consumer Rights, the Law on Access to Judicial Decisions. The adoption of the bill will strengthen the material and technical base of the courts and allow us to continue with you to reform the judicial system. Please support the bill and accept it today in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a reporter? Please sign in. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u92	Yuri Carmazin. Dear reporter, there is no money today that judges are not even paid for life support, the debt of today’s authorities — four months in Kiev alone on the life support they are obliged to pay. I understand all of this, but I would like you to explain to me how much more fun this will be for Ukrainian citizens? Because if we used to calculate the percentage of an untaxed minimum, that's 17 dollars, that's now from the minimum wage, where you're offering 941 bracelets to do it, and Azarov's paying today to engineers, doctors, where the largest category, the highest category, counts 642 bracelets. So why don't we do 642 bracelets from this Azarian standard? Should we leave 17? How much this law will cost.?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u93	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u94	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, dear colleagues, I have already said to this, that we have certainly taken this matter into account, and what bets will be at the end of the court, we will decide this here with you, in the session room, and, Yuri Anatoliyovich, you will also be able to make appropriate adjustments to the second reading. Once again, we have laid down such a principle that where companies and landowners today are judged for millions and millions of dollars, we want to pay for the normal court congregation. Because today, you know, in some cases, they pay three bracelets and then they condemn millions for themselves. For citizens, we do not want to change the rates of the court and we will ensure universal access to justice, as set out in both the procedural codes and the Constitution of Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u95	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yuri Vasilovich Karakai, head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u96	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, our committee discussed the draft bill on March 16 at its meeting and after the discussion, taking into account the Cabinet's position, the government's support for the bill decided to recommend it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u97	Is there a question for a coconspirator? If there is, please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin. I have a similar question for you. Because I didn't get the right answer from the author of the bill. How much will this bill cost to the private taxpayers? Because I quote, this is article 4, "Dimensions of the Court". It says here that for filing a property claim with the court, the filing of a claim of immaterial character, the filing of a marriage claim, the division of property, the filing of a court order. [[Why does one percent go there?]] In short, everyone will have to be paid for absolutely everything. So let's see, and within what it is, and how much it's going to cost. A cassation complaint, an appeal -- we'll bet everything here. We're making a full transfer. Whether this corresponds to the Tax Code or whether this corresponds to the Constitution of Ukraine. As you think, and perhaps already.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u99	Dear Mr. Carmazin, in my humble opinion, the previous speaker fully answered your question. I don't understand why you didn't understand. Moreover, considering that our Constitution, our State, does not provide for free work in the courts. And obviously, even if a card is to be sent, not to refer to a judge’s work, it should be worth something. Right? So do not engage in populism.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u100	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions. Please state the names of the national MPs that will come from the factions. Paul Zebravsky. I'd like you to sign up for the National Deputies. Names, please. Thus, Paul Zebrowsky. Oleg Lazko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u101	A rather interesting approach was suggested that the person doing the work is fed from it. So now you also need the haicher, as in the anecdotes that the haicher hasn't come to pay in a long time. He's asked, "Why don't you get paid?" He says, 'cause I thought they gave the wand and rolled as hard as you could. This is about the same in the courts of today. It is absolutely true today that they want to make the work of the courts count. I apologize, there are three branches of authority: the legislative, the executive, and the court. The legislative branch of authority is also underfunded, so let us pay the tax for the adoption of laws. The executive branch is also not fully funded. For their legitimate performance, let us give them the opportunity to work to have full funding available. Because if you follow that logic, it turns out that Ukrainian citizens pay twice. First, for the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government, they have to be financed exclusively from the State budget of Ukraine. Taxes are paid differently and, I'm sorry, they're not small enough. And that is why I am convinced that such an approach is wrong. And to justify only that the judges have nothing to send a letter for or anything else is the wrong approach, because it is in general a violation of the principles of the formation of state authority in Ukraine. I think that the support of this law is not constitutional, wrong, unfair, because it reduces human access to the protection of their rights and freedoms provided for in the Constitution. I urge the session room not to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u102	Oleg Easy, non-faction. The next one will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u103	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Neither will I vote in favour of this law in view of the following. We are trying to solve the problems of financing the judicial branch of government at the expense of the citizens of the country. In fact, it's the same thing as raising the retirement age for women and telling them that it will solve the pension fund's problems. It is quite obvious that even if women and men are raised up within 100 years of retirement, the pension deficit will not be reduced. Similarly, if you put in place, you will be obliged to pay for the sending of court reports, and so forth, it will only limit people’s access to justice. I have another proposal where I can get the money to finance the judicial system. We have 1.5 billion dollars to keep the President alive this year. Compared with the previous year, expenditures increased by nearly 500 million. So let's take it off of the maintenance of the Presidential Office and channel these funds into the financing of the judicial system. The same is true of the Supreme Council. The cost of maintaining the Supreme Council is nearly 1 billion dollars this year. Let's cut these costs. The same applies to the Attorney General’s Office, the Security Service, the police, and so forth. Let us not address the country's problems, particularly the lack of funding for the judicial system at the expense of the citizens of the country. I think that if we reduce the cost of maintaining state authorities, which in general make up several tens of billions of dollars this year, we will be able to fund the judiciary, but not at the expense of the citizens. So I will not vote in favour of this law, and I propose to reject it. People who are already deprived of the opportunity in court to find the truth, since in addition to having to pay the official fees, bribes must also be made for judicial decisions. Now the law proposes to restrict people’s access to justice in general. Let's imagine Grandpa, Grandmother from the village, or some simple job, where he can find money to pay for these court services? Clearly, there is no money. So instead of seeking justice in a court of law, a person will explain in a fistfight his rights, who is older, who is younger. I propose not to lead to sin and to stop upholding the rights of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Valérie Pisarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u105	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am impressed by the Ham response of the speaker, who was not authorized here by the committee to answer to the national MP that he had a populist question. Ham is essentially "headless" in terms of content! Because, and if a person had the money to pay for a lawsuit and then no funds to pay for an appeal, for a cassation facility. Is she being deprived of her right to legal protection as provided for in the Constitution? What are we going to do? It turns out that if you failed to pay, you would be deprived of the right provided for by the Constitution to defend yourself. Here, you know, we're going to go so far with these laws, I've looked into what to pay for, and you know, I'm getting a little creepy. I don't think anyone will be happy with what's written in this law. That's why I'm proposing that we make changes, first in the decree, or in the State Customs Act, and then in that case, we reduce the duties for those or other services that are provided in this case. In doing so, they are services, and the right to appeal to the courts for justice is the responsibility of the State. The other one. I would like no one to come from national deputies, including the so - called majority. Just get out of the Supreme Council, from the central entrance, walk to the left 200 meters, and look down. There are now 70 workers working there every day, 4 floors of the so-called 1 building site in the state where the helipad is being built, 4 floors are already being built, 5 cranes are now operating there, all the time. It is at a time when the monument to history and culture, the palace of Mary, which is next to it -- nothing, no employee is working, the monument is falling apart, what are we going to show? You say today about the Euro. And what are we going to show people when they get here, a helipad of concrete? That's why 96 million dollars are on the site, and we don't have the money for the courts. Therefore, we should follow the code that we have adopted, including the Tax Code. What is stated in article 4 is that “The national taxes and congregations which are not provided for by this code are not subject to payment.” I'm asking you to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u106	Valerius Pisarenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I'd like to return what I've been saying to my sanity. We're not starting a new court meeting with you right now. It's just now called a government bribe. And all of this works according to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which was adopted 20 years ago. And here's what's happening today. For 20 years, we have been adopting laws with you that stipulate that there should be a judicial congregation in the country. What bets the court will be, is also our task with you, which we will have to decide on the second reading. To speak of populist statements here today: that we don't need to draw anything from citizens, then let me have these people who have never even been interested in what they're talking about here, yes, let them tell me: and how do we work today when we need to send dozens of letters in the case, and when a single letter costs more than a public duty paid by the party on the case? Well, for example, today in the process, if even the amount of the lawsuit can reach millions, for example, in the administrative process, we might have a government tax of 3 bracelets of 40 copies. Please tell me, is it fair for a court that only sends one card -- it'll cost him more than the party wants to sue? If we have thousands of institutions working with you today that thus ensure citizens' access to justice, is it fair today that they work on a document that hasn't changed in 20 years? Of course, you and I should take this step. In the first reading, we need to accept it. I fully agree with some of my colleagues' thesis that we need to look at them in the second reading. Besides, the Cabinet of Ministers and I have just talked about that we need to take a little bit of a stand on the Antimonopoly Committee, and we're also going to do that for a second reading, but today it's obvious that we need to ensure that citizens have access to justice through the mechanism for adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u108	Valentina Matthew, please microphone, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u109	Thank you. As has already been noted, this bill, as we can see, will lead to further harassment from our own, and so already from the very disadvantaged, citizens. To the electorate, this bill, unlike the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on State Customs, in which State Customs, by the way, is set at a percentage of the non-taxable minimum income of citizens, which is only 17 dollars, is proposed to set the rates of the judiciary as a percentage of the minimum wage, which is already going from 941 dollars, starting on 1 January of this year. That is, it is suggested that the court’s rates be increased significantly, seriously. That's why the Communist faction won't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. What is the position of the Ministry? Please. The Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Ministry of Justice supports the approval of this draft law in the first reading. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, to date, there is a Decree on State Customs. At the same time, the Constitution determines that such relations must be regulated exclusively by law. Because this is about paying taxes or compulsory payments. And this decree has been in existence for many years, since 1993 for a transitional period. On the second reading, of course, you can look at the rates. If questions arise and some bets need to be lowered or more objectively approached, or perhaps raised. But at the same time, the law of the State is essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, this was the position of the Ministry of Justice. Another woman named Ivanovna Jemelyanova sounded it. The Committee's conclusion is to accept as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill needs to be finalized. I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law on the Judicial Assembly. [[Registration number 7530]] Please vote. [[13:03:53]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Well, if we're not there, I'm voting for a return to consideration. Then, dear fellows, do not shout that they have not arrived. I'm responding to your calls. I'm betting on a motion to return to the draft law. [[Registration number 7530]] [[13:04:27]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Could you put the first reading back on? Not if, I understand, your honors. But could it be the first time again? There may be such an offer. I would like to vote on the bill for re-reading. [[13:05:11]] For 238. Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 185, "BUT – "Patkaščina" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 6, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 2-, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 7. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain legislative acts is being tabled. [[on improving certain provisions of the Tax Code]] [[Registration numbers 8217, 8217-1, 8217-2, 8217-3]] Why don't we just consider it as a reduced procedure, shall we? Yes, the chairman of the committee suggests that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[13:06:16]] For 210 Decision taken. Reporters: Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, National Deputy of Ukraine, Kseniya Mikhailovna Ljapina, and National Deputy of Ukraine, Natalia Yuriovna Královska. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u113	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues! The committee today has generalized all the proposals that come from the departments of profile, departments of intelligence. For four months, since the adoption of the Tax Code and the actual work of this document, we have held several meetings of the committee. People’s deputies, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, and other entities, both legislative and public organizations, were invited in particular. Today there are 31 drafts registered in Parliament, 31 bills for amendments to the Tax Code. This is a question, starting with technical issues, ending with, say, questions, there, as global as the question of making changes in rent payments that have a resource component. The committee proposed not to take decisions on individual draft laws and not to modify the Tax Code every week, to merge most of the constructive proposals into one document and to adopt on the first reading this document, which I now report, is Law 8217, which was introduced by the committee itself. I'd like to think that maybe I've been given two more minutes, given what I'm reporting from the committee. In short, it's a project. In addition to the technical rules that are decided in the changes to the Tax Code, and the removal of certain plural treatment positions that propose changes: the block of harmonization of the individual rules of the Ukrainian Tax Code on certain powers of the National Bank of Ukraine with the relevant laws on banking matters; the simplification of the procedures for the collection of fixed agricultural tax payers; the refinement of the determination of income from implementation, the conversion into leased production capacity; a separate cluster of issues that improves the taxation of transactions with fixed agricultural taxes on their initial location and repurchase; and the acquisition of the income of natural persons in the purchase of securities and their conversions; individual issues that regulate the relationship between local budgets and the central budget for the maintenance of local budgets. [[Let's say I don't focus on these positions.]] You remember that under the Tax Code, we cancelled a tax like that of the transportation congregation. And this tax was directed directly to local budgets and the ongoing repair of roads. With these changes, we propose to make some adjustments and leave 20 percent of the excise revenue from oil products in local budgets for subsidies, construction, repairs, and distribution of roads. A separate issue that is being addressed is changes to legislation on the only social contribution. The point is that today entrepreneurs who choose the general tax system.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u114	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u115	Yeah, I'll be done in a minute. ..who choose the general tax system, have to pay 15 or 17 percent of the tax on the income of the natural person. I mean, if you want to work with legal persons or you're going beyond what's commonplace today, you're working on PDF. But it's a very burdensome form of work, given that this entrepreneur has to pay the only social contribution he's getting from the difference in income. So in fact, 34.7 percent is an extra tax burden. So 51.7 percent is the total tax on such an entrepreneur. We offered to make a limit and to make a single tax on a single social contribution of 341 bracelets, which is equal to the minimum premium as for a simplification. Also in this block, we proposed to cancel the fines at the sole social contribution that was paid to entrepreneurs in the second half of the year. When this tax was introduced in the summer for entrepreneurs and in fact, well, many subjects of entrepreneurial activity were unable to make it at, say, the pace set by the Cabinet of Ministers. And on January 1st, there's a certain debt that we've agreed with the government and we've decided to actually cancel it. When I finish this report, I want to emphasize once again that there are 31 drafts on the committee today, a bill. And we've suggested the following approach: to accept this document in the first reading, which is now in agreement with the government and with many deputies, committees and public organizations, and in the second reading, to maximize the proposals made by the people's deputies that are now registered in Parliament. Thus, after the May celebrations, perhaps we should go to the second reading – and propose to this particular bill to unify all the proposals that are in Parliament today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u116	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, Kseniya Mikhailna Laupina wrote a letter to Parliament to consider without her involvement her bill to amend the Code of Tax Registration No. 8217-1. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, please, for two bills: 8217-2, 8217-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u117	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Draft law 8217-2 and 8217-3 are requested to be combined with one statement. Proposed bill 8217-2 amending article 139 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the costs of enterprises that are not included in the determination of taxable profits. The purpose of the bill is to repeal the Tax Code, which prohibits legal persons from taking into account gross costs for the purchase of goods from natural persons engaged in a single tax. You are well aware that the Tax Code, which prohibited legal persons from working with natural persons entrepreneurs, has paralyzed a number of businesses in Ukraine today. Since it was not only the small enterprises that had lost their ability to work in Ukraine and had been subjected to a totally discriminatory article and such a reservation, so the large enterprises that had built commercial production chains for years also suffered. Because many of the very valuables were supplied by small enterprises, and in particular, small-scale enterprises, and small-scale tools, were supplied to large-scale enterprises — packages. I was in a brick factory just the other day, so here are the bottoms, all the packing materials -- all the small businesses that had up to 10 people working, they had small productions, and they worked and they didn't ask for anything from the State, and they helped large businesses. So the system of clustering the economy was built in a natural way. What happened after this rule? That is, they were forbidden to work, that is, hundreds of thousands of people who participated in the formation of a single, large product.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u118	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u119	In fact, they were found on the street because of one piece of feathers, because of one unfortunate article of the Tax Code. Today, I understand, we do not all adequately assess the possible consequences of such a rule. Such a rule has been introduced, and we have all been told that it is the fight against optimism, that it is the fight against money-laundering and that it will be very helpful for our country to fill the budget. Dear colleagues, there is a need to combat optimism and to combat income-laundering, but for today a bill on a simplified tax system has been drafted and it contains precisely rules that do not allow a simplified system to be used in working with legal entities to optimize and tax-laundering. Unfortunately, however, the simplified system law is not being considered in Parliament. There is no alternative to the Cabinet of Ministers. The simplified system is completely paralysed, and this is a million people employed in our country. And I want to remind you that 400,000 in the past year alone has been closed and only a million left. So this rule, which we will not cancel today, will only close in April and in May another 200,000. We therefore propose the adoption of the simplified tax system Act, which clearly sets out the criteria that do not allow this rule to be used in the circumvention and optimization of taxation, but before the adoption of the simplified tax system Act, abolishing this absolutely lax norm, a criminal rule that today paralyzes the work of hundreds of thousands of people. I'm asking for a hall, listen! Because your vote will now depend on 200,000 enterprises in our country sitting and waiting for the Supreme Council to allow them to continue their activities. They created a small factory, small production, a small job, and now they've just been thrown out of the street and forced to go to the unemployment benefit and paralyze their activities. Come to the county, ask the businesses, they'll tell you what's going on today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u120	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u121	I'm done. Thank you very much. I very much hope that Law 8217/2 will be supported. Or at least take this rule into account in the finalization of 8217. Because do not provoke people, do not provoke people to act out of hopelessness today. Only a Drogby initiative has been organized in recent days. People are getting organized.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u122	Thank you. Natalia Yuriovno, it's politics. Let's go to the content of the bill. If you have everything, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u123	I'm done with the bill. That's why 8217/2 please support. With regard to Bill 8217/3. Please withdraw the bill, as the amendment had already been taken into account last week, and it had already entered the legislative field. And thank God, the Jesuit norm for providing empty declarations for the construction of thousands of orders, I hope the President has signed and the tax will quickly take account and will not continue to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u124	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a bill discussion. Two for, two against. Names of the national MPs, please. Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u125	Please tell Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u126	Oleg Lazko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u127	Thank you very much to Ruslan for the opportunity to express his views on the bill, because under the reduced procedure, non-faction deputies are not allowed to speak. And I, Vladimir Mikhailovich, am addressing you as Head of the Supreme Council to settle this matter. Now essentially the bill. I'd like to support a colleague of the Royals who has reported on an extremely difficult situation with small and medium-sized businesses. I confirm that the situation is catastrophic. Last week, I was in Lugansk. Thus, in Luhansk itself, after the adoption of the Tax Code, about one and a half thousand small entrepreneurs obtained their certificates. [[It's up to the government to let them know.]] As a result of the adoption of this Tax Code, you have deprived people of their jobs, their families, and they have given them nothing in exchange — no government support, no employment, no wages. At the same time, a person is trying to earn that coin somewhere, and today’s authority, today’s government, is depriving a person of the ability to earn that coin on his own. So I also think that there should be an elimination and a rule that prohibits small entrepreneurs from dealing with legal persons who actually deprive people of their jobs is a draconian norm, and hundreds of thousands of people today are left without work as a result of this Tax Code. That's why I'm talking to my colleagues in Parliament. It's clear that small business in the last place hurts you, especially big business, because we have an oligarch government that only protects the interests of big business. But once the small business is up and out again, yes, where will your big business be and you with them? So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support small and medium-sized businesses, because it is the foundation of any democratic state. Not as we have a dozen families today have doubled their billions of dollars, and millions of people do not know what to pay the utility bill and how to make that coin, and why to put the child out of school.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u128	Dear national MPs, no one insists on the faction that did not share? No, it's not. Now, Ruslan was. Too bad. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I understand. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt Bill 8217 as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that draft laws 8217, 8217-1 can be adopted. And Bills 8217-2 and 8217-3 have observations about these projects by the Science and Experimental Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand the importance of making these decisions, so I am convinced that one of the projects we need to take and then work on the second reading of all those valuable proposals that are mature so that we can make the decision that people need, for the country. So I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a bill based on registration number 8217. It's a committee bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u129	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u130	What?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u131	And that's no hindrance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u132	So it's now that we're done and we're going to say that we've counted everything. Dear colleagues, the draft law is put to the vote to adopt it as a basis. [[Registration number 8217]] Please vote. [[13:24:45.]] For 263 Decision taken. I ask the committee to consider all the other suggestions if they lie down in logic and they have an acute need, and to come up with a document that is so systematic that we don't then make any changes by adopting this 31 bill that you just said about. For reasons, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u133	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, these bills are completely different. And if the questions that were reported now after the Royal Project were to be accepted immediately and immediately in the first and second readings. They were extremely simple, there was a suggestion to delete sub-paragraph "D" of article 176.2 and paragraph 139 1.12. All they had to do was get rid of them today, and from now on, people would say, "People, you can supply products! Because that's what you're not allowed to do if you're sold by a natural person by an entrepreneur.".. This is not what we have done, article 116 of the Rules will not allow unless there is a special commission. I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we be with you now, or vote, please, for 116 articles of the Rules in this case, or for these two laws to be voted upon. Because now you're going to knock them down, and there's a preference in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u134	Thank you! Dear colleagues, I think we will always act wisely and responsibly. When it's prepared for the second reading of the bill, we'll see that it counts that we don't, and we'll take a special decision from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We agreed with you that change should be systemic and that the issues that are obvious should be taken into account. Natalia Kraljevska, for this matter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u135	Thank you very much! I would like to point out once again that there is nothing in Bill 8217 about the relationship of legal persons to the costs of individuals. This article in Bill 8217 does not explicitly refer to the text of the law, the bill. Therefore, we must either support this separately or vote in favour of this article. Because then there'll be 116, which means we'll get away from this issue and we won't solve this problem. And every day thousands of businesses are closing down, thousands of people are not getting wages. It's not a ridiculous norm, it's not some kind of little correction -- it's a disaster today, because a completely paralysed system of industrial, productive communications, stands for both large enterprises and small businesses. It's like an internalized special-provoked crisis. In general, those who have introduced this rule must bear their personal responsibility for this. Because it's an antidote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you, we have moved on to a procedure of discussion. I just gave it to the authors. Well, Paul Zebrovsky is the last. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, only the cosmetic induction of the Tax Code defines nothing. What Natala Královska has offered is really a very key and very important, very important question. In fact, today’s lawyers have stopped, stopped, stopped, stopped, and stopped the activities of both large businesses and today’s small businesses. If we want to form an oligarchic system for the functioning of the state, we need only large enterprises. If we want to give people the opportunity to make themselves a piece of bread, we have to make what the Royal One has to offer. I emphasize and urge everyone, which is absolutely necessary today. Because the force for counting is impossible. Because once again, the scientific expertise will say: 116 does not foresee changes and additions if the first reading is not accepted. Or we can join the King’s proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move forward in this way: we can now vote on the assignment, count it, and we can put it another way. To vote in favour of all the other bills that were still in existence, and when they receive support, to entrust the committee to unite in one bill and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u139	Well, that's how we can go.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u140	Well, please let the committee head say so. Because then we're going to meet again really on 116 articles, and we're going to stumble.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, well, if we take a few projects now, well, the committee will be both in terms of the Rules, and in other positions it will be difficult to work. The position reported by the Royal People's MP, she realized, is in two words. These are positions that will logically be included in the second reading as your amendment as your proposal. This is chapter III of the income tax, which is changing in 8217. So we're changing other positions in chapter III by profit tax. So you can submit this project and we'll settle it on the committee. I don't see any problems voting here for other draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u142	Please, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we've gone into discussion. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, it's hard to tell who registers them because they don't study drafts, they're both alternative and they're not entirely alternative. Because they make changes to the same articles. Therefore, in order to insist, and the right of authors, since the Royal Bill is not essentially an alternative, because it amends another article, it is necessary to vote on this bill now and then, in preparation for the second reading, we will not violate 116 articles and there will be a bill in general. Let the session room be determined so that there is no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u144	Please, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u145	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, everyone understands, and the discussion has shown it, and the speeches, the question on the political plane. Dear colleagues, it is imperative that the Royal Law be voted upon as a separate law, as Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk rightly said that these are different rules of the Tax Code, different positions, so vote as a separate law. And Karmazin is absolutely right, and in the first and second readings you can vote on the Royal Bill. But the hall has to be politically defined. We support this position or we do not support it. We're going to support this approach, what was said from the Royal Tribune, or we're not going to support it. Decisions, believe me, political decisions. If you don't support it, you know, hundreds of thousands of people on board without a piece of bread, as one of the deputies said. Let's vote as a separate law of the Royal Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u146	Dear National Deputies! Let's get out of this situation this way. Since National Deputy Kseniya Lapina has proposed not to consider Bill 8217-3, she proposes to consider Bill 8217-2, which does not intersect with the bill that the committee chairman has reported. And if the Supreme Council supports it, then the committee should prepare for the second reading, taking into account the proposals of the Royal Natalia. And in the final edition, we're going to make this decision or we're not going to make it, it's going to be the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Right? So right now and in accordance with the Rules, I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law reported by Natalia Kraljevska. [[Registration number 8217-2]] Please vote. [[13:33:50]] For-63 The decision is not taken. All right. There are no more motives, please. Dear colleagues, there is no motive under the reduced procedure. We're already looking at this issue with no twenty-twelve. Dear colleagues, when preparing for second reading, I would like to ask the committee to be careful about all of these issues, which have not only economic, social, but also political, and to consider as much as possible all the proposals that are obvious and necessary. Do you have a deal? It's a deal. Dear colleagues! I'm announcing a draft for a local referendum. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Justice, Inna Jemeljyanova, co-rapporteur, head of the Subcommittee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Sergey Petrovich Podgorny. So, how are we gonna look at it, tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u148	Another Ivanovna, can we do it on short notice so that we can make it? In short, can we consider it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u149	Well, I'm asking her. Dear colleagues, I ask the author and the reporter, the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, and you are to be identified. Suggested to consider the simplified procedure. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[13:35:31]] For 199 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u150	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Our nation has already gone through a difficult stage of reflection and recognition of the principled position, according to which the important task in a democratic state is to uphold the rights of the territorial community as the primary subject of local self - government. It is very obvious to all of us that the establishment of effective institutions of local democracy will enable us to eliminate the existing kind of alienation of the people from dealing with matters of local importance. To date, the local referendum has not yet become a real and effective mechanism of the democratic model of local decision making. First. This is an outdated and ineffective legal regulation of the organization's mechanism and the holding of a local referendum. There is a powerful administrative factor in the text of the current Law on the All-Ukrainian and Local Referendum, which affects the nature of preparation, implementation and practical implementation of the results adopted by the territorial community in the local referendum. Procrastination in local self - government, as well as the lack of interaction between local governments and civil society structures. And full, very often, I don't think it's worth hiding, but very often even ignoring the interests of the territorial community when making decisions at sessions of local councils. I want to highlight the following points among the pros and cons of the bill. First of all, a clear draft law regulates the form of a local referendum decision, because the disadvantage of the current Law on the All-Ukrainian and Local Referendum is the inappropriate regulation of the implementation of decisions. So this law, operating on the concept of "a local referendum decision", does not define the act in which it is accepted, how much it is necessary for adoption, for consideration; the definition of a territorial commission from a local referendum subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u151	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u152	the subject of the registration of the initiating group and the appointment of the local referendum. At present, the territorial community is a hostage of even less than 2.5 thousand people, but in fact, of the Soviet system of local self-government, because the central link of this system remains local councils, whose over-authorization in making decisions, especially when it comes to mistrust, such as the head of the local council, and when they take decisions or register, whether or not to register an initiative group on what they have to do with the final decision; establishing the basis for an early termination of the full powers of the territorial commission; regulating the possibility of registering issues proposed for a local referendum only one initiative group; establishing the right of the initiative group to create a fund for the local referendum; and simplifying the procedure for initiating and holding a local referendum in the territory of that citizen who has fewer than 2.5 thousand citizens. In addition, the authority of official observers from local community centres and international organizations is greatly enhanced What I'm saying is that this bill was an expert in the Council of Europe and received, although of course, some comments were made, but a positive decision was finally reached. This law is vital to our nation. And I very much ask, honourable national deputies, to support and approve it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u153	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Sergei Petrovich Podgorny, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u154	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, the distinguished Presidency! At its meeting on March 30, this year, a draft Law on the Local Referendum, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill proposes to determine the legal principles, organization, and conduct a local referendum at the village, village, city, and district level. The Legal Policy Committee, on the basis of its consideration of the bill, noted its innovative nature, aimed at putting in place effective mechanisms for the preparation of a local referendum conducted at the proper level of regulatory technology. In commenting on a number of comments to the project, the committee stressed that the project largely addresses the issue of full regulation of the legal relations related to initiation, appointment, preparation and conduct of a local referendum in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Budget Issues, in its conclusion to the bill, made a number of observations on the inadequacy of certain provisions of the bill to the requirements of individual articles of the Budget Code and recommended that these observations be taken into account in the drafting of the bill. The Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, having examined the proposed bill to meet its requirements, concluded that the bill had been registered in accordance with the requirements of articles 90, 92 of the Rules. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following its consideration of the bill, has expressed a number of observations and suggestions to it and considers it appropriate to review the bill in the first reading to return its subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. I would like to point out that the bill on the local referendum was previously discussed and discussed at a round table, which the committee held on 7 February 2011 in conjunction with the Council of Europe programme on Strengthening Local Democracy and Supporting Reforms of Local Self-Government in Ukraine, the Electoral Law Institute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u155	Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u156	and other partner organizations that have been dedicated to regulatory issues. During the round table, the participants were familiar with the European Council’s expert opinion on the bill on the local referendum, which was given a positive assessment of the bill. And the comments and suggestions made in the conclusions can be taken into account in the drafting of the bill on the local referendum for second reading if adopted today as a basis. So during the discussion of the bill on the local referendum submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a decision was adopted unanimously by the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government on 30 March this year by the National Committee members: recommending a draft law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine when considering the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u157	Thank you. So, shall we vote? Talk about it, huh? Please sign up for the bill. Please show the names of the national MPs who signed up. Alexander Steshenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u158	Please give my colleague Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u159	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, we have been going to this important bill for so long that I think it would be desirable to take it more seriously and more seriously. The point is that we respect the position of the Council of Europe experts, but that Ukraine is not only geographically but practically a European country, we would vote for it in the first reading and believe that between the first and second readings, well, at least 28 pages of the amendments to our Scientific and Expert Office and very serious warnings from the territorial communities. If I generally evaluate this bill, I would say that the bill makes it possible for a local referendum in Ukraine only for the consent and support of the local government. Without local authority, it's impossible in principle to organize any local referendum. Now let's look at the ideology, essentially the local referendum. A local referendum by nature prefers an initiative of the public that wants to influence, to prevent some acceptance of local authority, to instruct local authorities, or to correct the actions of local authorities. So if this bill is adopted in general, we're going to repeat history, when a few years of community organizations have tried to hold a referendum on the resignation of the Czernovicki, Long and all the "young team," and this "young team" just didn't register the initiative groups. So the key is that the local authorities have to be completely distant from the referendum process. A territorial commission and a community that initiates. Because if this procedure is left, there will never be a question for the local authorities. Well, the question will be, what color will the banisters paint or what flags hang? And the question is, Can we not privatize utilities, or should we do other things where the authorities are not interested? So once again, our position is that we need to radically change the law or the concept of the law in that part so that the local referendum is an initiative of the territorial community, not an initiative of the local government alone. Without such a change, the point of the local referendum is completely lost.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u161	Vladimir Karpuk. Ruslan Knazevich, please. Then there will be Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, in July of this year, we will celebrate a remarkable event: the 20th anniversary of the Universal and Local Referendums Act, which was adopted in July 1991. It's far from the Constitution, even until we, in principle, have received our independent state, but it's one of those bills that is still a stumbling block in this session room and, unfortunately, we can't accept any of the bills that have been adopted in the final edition for 20 years. Do you know the fate of the Law on the All-U.S. referendum? He was even accepted, even a lengthy discussion on the possibility of overcoming the veto, but unfortunately, he was rejected. I understand that in the near future, since the issue has disappeared, no one intends to return to it. And even if we try to regulate this bill now, there will be a series of questions, because the transitional positions say that in the area of the local referendum, the 91st will not work. But it is so harmoniously linked to the whole of Ukraine that we want to or do not want to, we still have to consider this in a package. This is not a matter for Minsk, for for the sake of objectivity, they have been quite professional in the drafting of the bill. Mikola Volodymyrovich, that question you just mentioned, was just decided on behalf of that proposal you said. For the first time, they took the consent of the authorities to initiate the referendum and handed it over to the territorial commissions. This is exactly what this bill is about, and this is a huge novelty. The other thing is that these are the committees that were formed for the local last elections. We know that a certain flaw in the formation of those commissions, given the overall political situation, was. And so we need to think, perhaps, about the second reading, how to address the interests of those political forces that are not represented in those commissions, but are active players in the political field in each self-government body. A big problem for me may arise hypothetically with questions about the subject of the referendum. To write that these are all questions of local self-government that are not related to the competence of other authorities or the relevant organ of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, quite, you know, sporadicly, because not everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u163	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u164	Not every authority of local self - government understands what this is about knowledge. Therefore, constitutionality and other issues should be excluded from this bill. Similarly, if you only isolate questions about preschools that cannot be regulated by this law, you also need questions about schools, we know that this is a very relevant issue at this point. But given that this bill basically contains a large number of positive monetary things, the first reading should be adopted. And we need to keep working on it. I think we can go to a good edition of the Local Referendum Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u165	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u166	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to start by quoting the Explanatory Note, which says that this form is meant to refer to a local referendum, a local democracy would be an effective means of controlling the local community's activities, particularly in the part of the commitments it takes as a step towards building civil society. It's absolutely modern, I'd say, a progressive disposition. The only thing to be taken into account is that a local referendum is not a form of local democracy, it can't be a local democracy, it's a form of direct democracy, it's a part of decision-making. But, you know, to talk about what he might be generally accepted in today's edition, you just can't. Because the system's work still has to be done to remedy the flaws in the project. They are, many things are not settled at all. I can't talk about everything right now. I'm just going to take one aspect. The question is, how many questions are raised in the local referendum? How do they fare? What is the mechanism of delivery? Who is the subject of alternative questions? The second moment is very important. What signatures do voters collect, on what question? On all the questions in the referendum or under one? If there are a few questions, it should be a separate set of signatures, for a person may want and consider it necessary to have a referendum on one question and be firm against having another question put to the referendum. Therefore, the signature assembly should take place separately. And it's a very important moment. And that's what PARE is talking about, and it's a science-experimental government, which is the norm, which is "can be asked a few questions." "Several" is not clear how much? Eight, twelve, twenty-two. They're supposed to be very serious about these things, because you know, they say the devil is hiding in detail, that's very serious details -- the question of referendum, the number of questions of referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u167	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u168	captions for this question and how, what is the mechanism for formulating these issues? Thank you. Therefore, in the first reading, we can either vote on the basis of a vote, and then, indeed, there must be a system of work on this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u169	Thank you. Yeah, no one's insisting anymore? No, it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office, as you've seen, has made a lot of comments, obviously they need to be examined carefully by the committee when preparing the bill for second reading if the Supreme Council of Ukraine now makes a positive decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Law on the Local Referendum. [[Registration number 7082]] Please vote. [[13:51:53]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine continues for 15 minutes. So that was your offer, and I made it happen. Dear people's deputies, I suggest you think, here are a few government bills, the more there are representatives of Kabmin, let's take a quick look. I suggest that you consider the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving regulation in the field of protection of economic competition]] [[Registration number 7419]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Krachenko Yuri Grigorovich. The correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Belowov Irina Anatoliyevna. And here was a proposal to consider this issue in a simplified way. I'm putting her to a vote. Please vote. [[13:52:58]] For 199 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u170	Thank you. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, Bill 7419 was drafted on his own initiative by the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee in order to improve the regulatory framework for the protection of economic competition. First of all, this bill proposes amendments from 17 to 68,000 to the size of a fine that may be imposed by our territorial offices of the Antimonopoly Committee. So far, the Antimonopoly Committee is spending a considerable amount of money on holding temporary administrators in the regions, and the average fine there is between 40 and 50,000 dollars. And the maximum amount of a fine that can be imposed by our territorial divisions is only 17,000. In addition, according to the law, those who encourage others to commit or promote violations of competition law will be held accountable. Because according to current legislation, such acts are a violation. Instead, valid legislation did not provide for responsibility for the commission of such violations. In addition, making changes will allow non - Ukrainian operators to pay for applications for a concentration of reconciliation not only in bracelets but also in euros and US dollars. The bill also points out the need for a normative strengthening of the obligation to prove that the documents requested by the authorities are submitted to the Committee on Post Offices. This is due to the existence of a large number of disputes and jurisprudence with regard to the proper performance of operators in providing information on requests from the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee. Honourable national MPs, the adoption of the bill should ensure the effectiveness and predictability of the application of legislation on protection of economic competition, which in turn will help improve the level of implementation of competition policy. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u171	Thank you, too. Irina Anatolyevna Belousova, deputy head of the committee. Please refer to the committee's decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u172	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The proposed bill aims to improve legal regulation in the field of protection of economic competition. As a bonus, I would like to mark the granting of the right of operators to appeal to the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for conclusions on the compatibility of their planned actions with Article 151 of the Law on Protection against Unconscionable Competition. The change in the level of the fine, which will be entitled to impose the territorial branch of the committee, will reduce the costs of economic operators, particularly in relation to the need to send documents, by sending representatives to the capital of Ukraine, since sanctions of up to 68,000 dollars on infringements of competition law will be able to impose territorial offices of the Antimonopoly Committee. In general, the adoption of this bill will contribute to the predictability of the application of competitive legislation and will significantly reduce the risk of noncompliance by operators with its requirements. The Economic Policy Committee is proposing to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there any warnings on this matter? Are there speakers? I can't see. The committee, as has just been reported, is proposing to adopt a bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving regulation in the field of protection of economic competition]] [[Registration number 7419]] Please vote. [[13:57:37]] For 244 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is given to the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. [[on the admission of medical devices to international standards]] [[Registration number 7412]] The reporter is First Deputy Minister of Health Anischenko Alexander Volodymyrovich. Correspondent from the committee: Vladimir Karpuk. I would like to put the motion to a vote on the issue of reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:58:21]] For 206 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u174	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices sets out the necessary measures to protect patent rights when registering medical devices, as well as the five-year deadline for the exclusiveness of data for clinical research. It does not determine which treatments are subject to an exclusive regime, the term from which data can be used for the safety of medical devices, for the development and conduct of expert studies, where it is possible to use registration information to protect the population of Ukraine. This has led to a dangerous situation in Ukraine due to restrictions on access to life - sustaining medical supplies, an increase in budget costs for health care, a decrease in the level of development of the pharmaceutical industry, which is based on generic medical supplies. The proposed amendments to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices, the development of the implementation of paragraph 3 of the Protocol Council under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister of Ukraine since 16.06.2010 "On ensuring the accessibility of the population of quality medical devices, medical devices and medical equipment" taking into account international law and the provisions of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. The bill proposes to provide for the possibility of issuing a compulsory license, i.e. the registration of a medical device and the establishment of certain restrictions relating to the maintenance of the balance of interests in the protection of intellectual property rights and the protection of social health. It is required that references to the registration data of the original innovative medical device containing the new active substance may be allowed if necessary to ensure the protection of the population of Ukraine in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers or, where it is established by a court or other authorised authority that the owner of intellectual property rights has abused his rights, in particular the monopoly right to the market. The introduction of this bill does not require additional costs from the State Budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u175	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Karpuk will inform us of the committee’s decision, fellow dignitaries.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u176	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On March 17, this year, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health Care reviewed Bill No. 7412, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is aimed at legislative settlement of admission to Ukraine's market and a balance between the protection of intellectual property rights and the provision of affordable medicines for Ukrainian citizens. The proposed changes remove artificial barriers at the stage of registration of generic medical devices. They allow two years earlier to develop and produce more affordable generic analogues of patented drugs. In addition, these changes give the State the right, if necessary for the health care system, to permit medical registration in exceptional cases, i.e. to issue a compulsory trade license irrespective of when the product was registered and whether it was protected by a patent. The proposed changes do not go beyond the requirements of the TRIPS World Trade Organization trade agreement and the commitments made by Ukraine when entering the WTO beyond the TRIPS Treaty requirement, but they retain the right under Ukraine to apply the flexibilities related to the issue of a compulsory licence. The proposed changes will contribute to the saturation of the Ukrainian pharmaceutical market with generic drugs, which will be much cheaper at the cost of the original drug. But they will not yield to him in either efficiency or quality. Thus, the cost of treatment for one patient will be reduced, and medical care will become more accessible. For example. In April 2010, the HIV/AIDS/AIDS Committee and other socio-dangerous diseases published price comparisons for generic and original drugs. The data show that the average difference between generic and original drugs in Ukraine is 26 times!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u177	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u178	twice. Therefore, our committee at its meeting decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis and entrust the Health Committee with the drafting of the bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions of legal entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u179	Yes, thank you, too. Is there anyone who would like to speak on this? I can't see. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office has reached a positive conclusion on this bill. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. [[on the admission of medical devices to international standards]] [[Registration number 7412]] Please vote. [[14:04:01]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. Now, honourable colleagues, it is the turn of the draft Law on Liability for Damage Caused by Product Deficit. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Bandurovo Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Correspondent is Secretary of the Committee on Legal Policy, Tolstenko Volodymyr Leonidovich. I'm betting on the vote to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:04:36]] For 209 Decision Adopted Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u180	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! A draft Ukrainian Law on Liability for Damage Caused by Product Deficit is being submitted to your consideration. The need for the drafting and adoption of a separate bill is based on two main factors. The first is the elimination of existing differences between the Ukrainian Civil Code and the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act. The second factor is the introduction in Ukraine of liability for damage caused by a defect in production, which is a movable property based on European principles. In line with the Action Plan of the European Union, Ukraine has undertaken to adapt its legislation on liability for defective production to the relevant EU legislation. The bill provides that the liability for damage caused by a fault of a movable property product rests directly on the manufacturer of the product, since it is the manufacturer who has full information about his production and production process and must ensure its safety. While the seller does not possess such information and is objectively unable to ensure the safety of his product. If the manufacturer is a nonresident of Ukraine, the liability for the damage rests with the person who brought the product into the customs territory of Ukraine. Only when both the manufacturer and the person who imported the product cannot be established is the responsibility for the damage relied on the seller if he does not inform the victim of the manufacturer’s appointment and location within 30 days. The patient is entitled to require the manufacturer to provide documentation on the extent necessary to prove the circumstances of the damage task. According to European practice, the bill establishes a three - year limitation period for the submission to victims of claims for damages and a ten - year period for damages from the date of the manufacturer’s introduction into the course of such a product, resulting in a defect in which the damage is caused. Given that the bill is aimed at increasing consumer protection in case of damage caused by a production defect, please support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u181	Thank you, sit down, please. I'm asking the committee of Vladimir Leonidovich Tolstenka to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u182	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Legal Policy considered the bill under registry 7408 on liability for damage caused by a defect in production. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee drew attention to a number of shortcomings contained in the project. The specified project is not in line with the need to systematize legislation that excludes multiple acts from the same issues. The provisions of the project also duplicate the position of other legislative acts in this area, such as the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act, the Ukrainian Law on General Security of Non-food Production, and others are flaws. In its conclusion, the main scientific and expert management is proposing that the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Liability for Damage Caused by Product Deficit be rejected. The Committee on Legal Policy made the same decision. The bill is proposed by the committee to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-19-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there any other thoughts? Are there any suggestions for this? You read there. Who read the findings of the science-expert management, the conclusion is that there is no subject in the project, actually, to the legal regulation of this problem. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as the basis of the draft Law on Liability for Damage Caused by Product Deficit. [[Registration number 7408]] [[2:08:57]] For 228 The Supreme Council decided otherwise, for a change of 228. The bill was adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, let's make one more decision: this is the draft Law on the Announcement of Natural Areas of the City of Slovenia Donetsk Region by the resort of State importance. The question is obvious. You have this bill. The Committee’s conclusion is positive. The main scientific and expert management came to a positive conclusion. Let's vote in favour of this bill, if you don't mind, please pay attention, on the basis and in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am voting on the proposal, taking into account your unanimity, unanimity of support, the adoption as a basis and in the entire draft Law on the Announcement of Natural Areas of the City of Slovenia, the Donetsk Region as a resort of State importance. [[Registration number 7533]] Please vote. [[14:10:10]] For 272 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, here we have a bill -- this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on targeted bonds. Shall we consider it? It's a government bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we've got four minutes to go, and we can't break the Rules. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll continue in plenary at 16 hours.
