ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:34]] They registered cards in the 403 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day of the birth of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies: Grysak Vasil Mikolaiovich, who was 50 years old – Jubilee, Leochny Yulia Volodymyrovna, Pierre Vijacheslav Grigorovich and Saucenka Igor Vasilovich, 45 years old. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them all that you can wish for good people. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on February 16, 2011. Eight issues of the agenda have been considered: one decision has been adopted, one bill has been converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, and five bills have been rejected. Honourable National Deputies, on February 16, 2011, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on September 30, 2007, in the multi-mandatory national constituency of Netecko Olen Anatoliyovna, is included in the election list of the Party of the Regions. According to article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies hold office before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath, I invite you to the rostrum of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Necksky Olena Anatoliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, please welcome Olenna Anatolyevna. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give you an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, and articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ms Anatoliyovna, is to be appointed as a member of the Party of the Regions. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider, Your Honor, we need to consider if you don't object to organizational issues, namely the deployment of deputies to work on the relevant committees that have just joined the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to decide on the election of the committee head. Is there no objection? I would like to announce a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation and election of the head, first deputy, deputy heads, secretariat of members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Makeinko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on 16 February 2011, the Committee considered the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bebabel, head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Simonenko. [[by number 8080 from 04.02.11]] At the suggestion of the Communist Party’s deputy faction, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Igor Grigorovič, was elected head of the Supreme Council Committee for Combating Organized Crime and Corruption in the Establishment of the Committee. According to article 83, part 7, of the Supreme Council’s Rules, if the head of the committee is withdrawn from office, the right to apply for that office belongs to the deputy faction whose quota he was elected to the post. Thus, the post of head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption falls under the quota of the Communist Party’s deputy faction. At the same time, the committee points out that the title of the draft regulation does not meet the requirements of article 84, part 4, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which states that “in deciding on the changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the election of members of the Committees shall be adopted”. In this connection, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change the name of the draft ruling and to make such amendments: “To amend the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation and election of the head, first deputy, deputy heads, secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization”. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the agreed draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, taking into account the Committee's observations, namely: to change the name of the draft decision. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, no objection? None. Any questions? If only one, no one has any further questions? You don't? Then, Vladimir Karpuk, please don't take notes on questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u6	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear Mr. MacKeenko, when committees and committee leaders were formed, the Anti - Corruption Committee was an opposition. Now most of the time, it turns out that virtually all the committees: the budget, the fight against corruption -- belong to the majority. Who, then, will control all these acts of authority?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u7	The Committee on Rules of Procedure. Our Ukraine will control it. The Rules Committee consists of employees of all factions, including our Ukraine. We have quotas when we elect committee members we use this right. I gave you the information that the committee almost unanimously supported the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, the question obviously has a basis, but first of all, let's make sure that this is in line with the quota principle of distribution, second of all, we agreed with you, we don't need to start the "brounian movement" and start redistributing the committees, because then we're going to have a lot of opposition and a lot of insults. So these two, so these two factors, the respectable colleagues, so these two factors, so these two factors are obviously going to be the basis for our decision. [[Laughter]] Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u9	Dear colleagues! I fully agree with Vladimir Mikhailovich's logic as well. On the other hand, the current professional comes to the chair of the committee, yes. Well, first of all, the Company's in opposition. You can ask Peter Nikolaevich, they're in opposition, yes. They will vote against many laws today, yes. It's a real opposition, so there's an absolute plus here at three. I think we should put a vote on and support a professional on a committee like this, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u10	Thus, honourable colleagues, taking into account this third important factor, of which I have just said to Mikhailo Chechev, I put to the vote the proposal to adopt a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call, and the election of the Head, First Deputy, Representatives of the Head, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization, in part of the election of Bewaza Valerija Ananievich, Ukrainian National Deputy of the People's Republic of Ukraine from a multi-manage state election district, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the issue of criminal law. Draft Decree 8080 is a vote. [[10:12:01]] For 263 Decision taken, thank you. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the next one. Please, Peter Simonenko, a replica. The last name was on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! Simonenko, the Communist faction. I am grateful for your support, and I am convinced that Valery Ananiyovich will be able to run this committee. But I'd like to ask you and support the next proposal that I've come out with, realizing that the candidacy will be supported. Instead of Valeri Ananiyovich as secretary of the Committee on Law Enforcement, we have released him from his post, to appoint Lechnik Vladimir Alexiyovich, a member of our faction, and he is also, let's say, on a quota, considering this candidate. Vladimir Mikhailovich! Vladimir Mikhailovich, I propose, we have implemented this project, and I suggest we look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u12	Well, I'm telling the committee head that the committee should speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u13	Peter Mikolaiovich, we have a very tightly working committee on the Rules of Procedure on these personnel issues. We will consider the application that will follow procedure, and we will take the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u14	Come on, there's no objection. Let's let the committee take a look. We've taken up this question as to what the question might be. The committee was sent to make a decision. All right, let's make a second decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on February 16, 2011, reviewed the statements made by Ukrainian national deputies (Andersa, Eutuhova, Stepanenka, Soltus, Lithuania, Zvarič, Stolar) about their election to the relevant committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That proposal by the regional party’s MP for the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Pshonka as deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fight against organized crime and corruption, liberated him from the duties of a member of the committee. Let's get this over with. According to paragraph 2 of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Amendments to Certain Decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Quantification and Personal Composition of the Sixth Call Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, from 13 April 2010 to 2117, the replacement of the members of the Sixth Call Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine instead of those who erupted is carried out according to the ratio of the representation of the deputy factions on the Sixth Call Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which took place at the time of the formation of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the beginning of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the time of the formation of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 15 Ukrainian national deputies were elected to the Committee on Budget Affairs. On February 16, 2011, there were 11 national deputies working on this committee from the Party of the Regions. On February 4, 11, the national MPs suspended their parliamentary powers for a period of time. [[Boyarczuk, Zločevski, Salamatin]] Eleven Ukrainian national deputies were elected to the Committee for Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. On February 16, 2011, this committee has nine Ukrainian national deputies from the Party of the Regions. On February 4, 2011, the Ukrainian national deputies suspended their parliamentary powers. [[Jiga, Deputy Head of the Committee, Illashov]] Thus, in the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the deputy head of the committee and member of the committee, as well as members of the Committee on Budget Affairs, falls within the quota of the Party of the Regions. In the Committee on European Integration, one Ukrainian national deputy is working from the MP of the Party of the Regions. And the quota for the Party of the Regions' MPs in this committee is 6, which is the quota not used. In view of this, the Committee decided to support the proposal of the Party of the Regions for the election of Pshonka as deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fight against organized crime and corruption and statements by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Androssa, Eutuhova, Stepanka, Soltus, Lithuaniawinova, Zvarić, Stolar to elect them as members of the relevant committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to submit to the National Committee members a corresponding draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee voted unanimously in favour of the matter. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, no objection? There's one question about Andrew School. Please, Andrew School, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u17	Thank you. I'd just like to come back and remind you of Mr. Teriochin's removal from the head of the committee. And there somehow the majority forgot to follow both the quota principle and justice and logic, they just threw up and put someone who didn't mind making unpopular decisions to the government. So let's not even use all this nonsense here on account of justice, on account of quota principles. You say you want to go in there and insert it, you don't have to justify your actions. You need to take all the committees of the Supreme Council, take them away. Gentlemen, get out of here! You've already turned the Supreme Council into a service device on Bank Street. So please, justice and quota principles from this rostrum are not worth it because they were repeatedly violated here. And I'm sure they're going to be repeatedly violated by the fundamental principles of democracy in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u18	Since this question applies to the entire Supreme Council, let me give the honorary colleague an answer. First of all, let's not compete with anyone who's more cynical about the Supreme Council. If you don't like it, do this: we'll cut the county, go prove your need. Secondly, dear colleagues, let us realize that when there was a vacancy on the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, this office was handed over to representatives of the “BUT – Fatherhood” faction. And it happened, if you want, the size on the basis of the deals. So first, you will have complete information on this subject, then you will talk, you will humiliate the Supreme Council. We can't humiliate her any more than we all did with you. So, dear colleagues, let's not go on with this discussion. I'm saying it's not a big deal. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation and election of the head, first deputy, deputy heads, secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. [[Registration number 8118]] Please vote. [[10:19:43]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us now move on to practical work, namely, the issues that are set out in the February 17 calendar. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Order to honor the participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga is a reporter, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster. Him? Why don't you cut it short, Anatoly Ivanovich? The committee does not object to supporting the MPs' initiative to deal with the issue of reduced procedure? Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[10:20:46]] For 222 Decision taken. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u19	Honorable national MPs, distinguished compatriots, April 26, are fulfilling the 25th anniversary of the tragedy, the Chernobyl tragedy, the greatest technological catastrophe in human history. The Chernobyl AES accident has had severe consequences of a social, demographic, economic, environmental and socio-psychological nature. In time, problems caused by it do not disappear. Special attention is due to participants in the elimination of that terrible technological catastrophe. All of the world's societies are preparing for action in connection with the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. The president of Ukraine issued a decree on measures related to the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl accident. On January 20, 2011, the first meeting of the preparatory committee was held. The purpose of the draft decision is to ensure proper respect for courage, dedication, and high professionalism, and to improve the social protection of particle destruction in the Chernobyl AES. Because its scale could be immeasurably greater if it were not for the courage and self - sacrifice of hundreds of thousands of participants in the elimination of the consequences of the accident, our fellow countrymen. By risking their lives and health, they fulfilled their responsibility. The draft decree proposes to provide state-level support for actions related to the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl accident. Recommend to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local government administrations, local self-government authorities to prepare and carry out a set of actions related to the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, and measures to honor participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster discussed at its meeting on 16 February 2011 a bill on honouring participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES disaster on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u20	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u21	Registration number 8093, introduced by national deputies Seminog and Sherschun, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a whole. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u22	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues! Please sign up to express your attitude toward the proposed draft decision. Andrey Pavlovski, Faction "BUT is the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u23	Respectable compatriots! People's deputies! The Fatherland faction proposes to support the stated decision, to pay tribute to those who gave their health and life by eliminating the accident at Chernobyl’s AES. What is more, the 25th anniversary of this tragedy. At the same time, I would like to point out the need for adequate and social protection and the support of these people. At the same time, the government passed a bill on January 14 at number 7562, which allegedly had no bearing on the social issue of guarantees of enforcement. But at the same time, the transition states that all social benefits, the social benefits of black people, are largely limited or eliminated. I mean, they're going to be limited their entitlement to quarter-pay benefits, utility benefits. And they're also denied the right to an annual sanatorium trip, to be treated by this law in the Cabinet of Ministers. So in order to honor these people who have saved the country from the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, we need to do everything we can to avoid missing this disgraceful government bill that deprives not only the Chernobyls but also the 16 categories of citizens. Starting with the same black people, Afghans, participants in hostilities, children with disabilities, war veterans, and ending with miners, militias and prosecutors. I think we have to do everything we can to keep him from even going out to the hall, this disgraceful bill! And black people, protect your interests! Come to the Supreme Council and take care of yourself with the Chernobylites, and don't let us bring this disgraceful bill of 7562 to the Supreme Council, which deprives you of the benefits and social benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u24	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u25	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! This year marks the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. A draft decree honoring participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. This bill aims to ensure proper respect for courage, dedication, high professionalism, and improved social protection for participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. It is proposed that support be given, at the national level, to actions related to the 25-year anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. The decision should encourage the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, local authorities, and local self - government to prepare and carry out practical activities related to the anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, and to honor participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. Dear friends, we owe you eternally to hundreds of thousands of people, those who value their lives, to save their lives on earth. Therefore, the faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u26	Yes, who insists on the faction that they did not participate? Yes, Yuri Carmazin. Who else? All of it. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u27	Yury Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders of Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, the actual determination of our colleagues, Seminog and Shershun, is absolutely correct and the faction will support the honor of the participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. The faction's position is to unanimously support this project. But I have to state that, to date, I have made the right statement to the National MP of Pavlovsky regarding the Law 7562, which yesterday the majority of the regional votes, 12 to 7, were extended to the Justice Committee. In a disgraceful way, Bill 7562 is called “State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments”. What would you think there? And there goes the language, and the articles are called, and an additional pension is eliminated for damage caused by health to those referred to in the first category; they are eliminated for other liquidators. There.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u28	Yuri Anatoliyevich, finish. Do you have everyone? Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u29	Because of this, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I very much ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to speak, perhaps you and Mikola Janović Azarov, who is the head of the government, because he does not accept the MPs, tell him to call off this disgraceful bill, because it all ends in a very sad state.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u30	Thank you. I report that I had a conversation with the Prime Minister of Ukraine this morning, and we discussed the issues that require a joint coordinated position between the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal like this. I also ask Anatolia Seminogue to provide some clarifications, if you don't mind. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? It suggests: “Considering that support should be given at the state level of action.” and further follow the text. Maybe let's write it down. It's number one. Consider it necessary to carry out measures at the state level related to the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. In paragraph two, the word “recommend” should be deleted and the words “Ministers' office” should be written after the test. Not "strengthen the plan of action," but "create" because "strengthening" is technical. confirm" and continue after the test. The same in paragraph 3 delete the word “recommend” and continue to follow the text. And add the eighth paragraph: "This decision takes effect from the day of publication." No objections? You don't? Please, Anatoly Seminoga. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u31	There is no objection, only to paragraph 2 for development. The point is that the plan of action has already been drawn up by the committee, and it is only approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u32	Then let's take this offer off. If they're designed, they'll be hard. To this point? Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u33	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have to go to paragraph 7, if you'll excuse me. Well, it's a ring that's repeated in fact in every decision we make, but I remind you that there is an appropriate decision of the Constitutional Court, and we've already made changes to the Rules. The Constitutional Court's decision stipulates that control on behalf of Parliament under the Constitution cannot be exercised by any committee, but can be exercised by Parliament as a body, and Parliament cannot delegate such control to anyone. So even if the committee does it, it can do it, of course, in the working order, but it doesn't have to be fixed at the standard level. It is clear what the committee will do, not Parliament in general. But to repeat these things again, I think it is inappropriate for us to be corrected again by the appropriate body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, let us heed this good advice. If there's no objection, paragraph 7 we're just going to delete, point 7 we're going to write that this is going to take effect from the day of publication. No warning? The committee will provide control in one way or another. Taking into account the clarifications and proposals made, I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to adopt it as a decree, to honor participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. [[Registration number 8093]] Please vote. [[10:32:30.]] For 370. I'll take the order. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to include a number of drafts in the agenda. May I have your attention, please? I'm betting on the vote a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Central Executive Authorities, for inclusion in the agenda. [[Registration number 8055]] Please vote. I vote, I vote, I vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, [[10:33:10]] For 263 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on Powers]] [[Registration number 8056]] Please vote. [[10:33:39]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to include in the agenda the Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2011. [[Registration number 8102]] I would like to place this motion on the vote. Please vote. [[10:34:11]] For-140. Something didn't work. It's not working, I've got it. No, no. Now we're voting first because my computer didn't work, and I can't see what it's all about. I'm asking you to see why the system doesn't work. As long as they're watching, please, Vladimir Yavorowski. No, it doesn't work here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u35	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Dear colleagues! Once again, I would like to remind you that, by agreement with the Conciliation Council and with the Head of the Supreme Council, we are proposing a list of memorable dates against which no one - I emphasise - is absolutely true. We put on a separate list those names that are certain there. Well, first of all, of course, ideological objections. But not to vote for the first list today, where there is total consensus, and not to mention the memories at all -- well, if you'll excuse me, I don't even know what to call it. That's why I'm very simply asking, let's now put this first list to the vote, and the second one, please, let's talk about it. Don't want to vote, don't vote. Period. Well, how much can you push on this question? In addition to the reproach of the Supreme Council on its head in this matter, it takes nothing else. I believe in your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u36	Mikhailo Chechetov on this subject, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u37	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the previous vote on the Chernobyl disaster, has shown that we can join forces both right and left, and the majority and minority, and vote in favour of the strategic papers. We know the experience of Parliament's work that there are alternative bills when it comes to solving a problem. And if one doesn't go to the bill, then the other one has to be accepted. An alternative bill is now being prepared with the same reference to this problem: the definition of memorial dates and Jubilee. That is why we propose that, since this bill is not being passed, we will reject it today, but we will introduce another, alternative, and we will discuss it and vote in favour. Therefore, the problems will be resolved. So do we. And for the bill that unites the hall, it will be voted, yes. We have no doubt there will be 250-270 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u38	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u39	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Regrettably, the Supreme Council was unable to adopt the Memorial Dates Regulation for 2010, unable to accept the Memorial Dates Order for several months, and for 2011. This leads to many inconveniences, as many other decrees are being made to designate the date of a person who is usually accepted as a preeminent when there is little time left to prepare, in fact, until marking at the state level. This bill, which was introduced and worked by the committee, if viewed, has two appendices: Appendix One, which is consistent with all factions, no faction of objections has submitted, and Appendix Two, for some reason, raised doubts about the marking at the national level of one date or another. But I don't understand, for example, what objections are there in another part of the Hall of State marking on the anniversary of Les Martovich, or John Mogilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, it takes three minutes to restart the system right now. That's why Peter Cibenko, then Vladimir Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u41	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council The chairman of the committee now expressed, as it were, righteous anger over the fact that the document had not been voted on. But I want to say one of the reasons why he doesn't vote. And that's why it's a selective approach. As Ukraine’s national deputy, as head of the Ukrainian Veterans’ Council, I have made proposals to mark a number of dates dedicated to the Great National War, and in particular I have proposed to mark at the national level 90 years John Alexanderovich Gerasimov, Hero of Ukraine, deputy of three calls, commander of the Kyiv Special Military District for nine years. I don't see that last name there today. So I view this as a separate, selective approach to the formation of this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u42	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u43	Thank you. I'm not going to repeat my colleague Chechtov's words, but I'd like to say that everything wasn't included by Mr. Yavorowski. And when we were preparing an alternative bill, I approached all the factions myself, taking this draft of the Yavorovsky decree, and we literally have today to register, and we will file it. And for example, according to Yavorowski, what I would like to say is, by his determination, for example, it's as simple as a hydrometeorological service, which in November will be 175 years old, but it, the first station was opened in Lugansk, is no longer there. So that's what politics is. Although there is a committee, there is a meteorological service, and there has been a holiday since 2003, Kuchma has also appointed him for November 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u44	Yes, Catherine Lukyanova, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I don't understand why we're breaking the files. To vote for Appendix 1 or Appendix 2, you have to have these apps in order of the day. We have a question about putting this item in order of the day at all. Let's bring it in, we'll talk about what names we make, what names we don't make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, we exchanged thoughts on this matter. Now, one minute, they're going to start the system. I'm going to put the vote back on the question of including it in the agenda. If you support it, then there will be time for discussion. Still, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. Well, please, 30 seconds, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u47	I'm addressing Landik, who's honored by me very much. Understand us, the Hydromet service was introduced when the draft decree had already been registered. What's bothering you right now, from the voice. Vladimir Mikhailovich and I have agreed, please make your proposals, and we will include them. We don't deny it. But we could not include it, for it was given two days before the discussion. Well, understand us. It's going to be immeasurable then. Enter your suggestions and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Unfortunately, we can't make a sound right now, because the question is to include the draft decree in the agenda. Then we can talk about the specific content of this document. Can I put it to the vote now? Ready? Dear colleagues, I'll be heading there on the board. I am voting for a motion to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the day’s draft decree on commemorative dates and Jubilee in 2011. Registration number 8102. Please identify yourself. [[10:42:33]] For-144 [[B in m in s a l in]] What? It's not working? "To" is 144. You say it doesn't work. Once again, I put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the day’s draft decree on commemorative dates and Jubilee in 2011. Please identify yourself. [[10:43:12]] For-152. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we will now do so: the initiative of the deputies, the preparation of the decision is verified and we will then consider in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, another unfortunately we cannot find a position. Show the factions if this information has been preserved. Regional Party – 0, “BUT – Fatherland” – 100, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 44, Communists – 0, “Reforms for the Future” – 5, National Party – 0, non-factional – 3. It was Adam Ivanovich and I who voted here. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the laws that the President of Ukraine has made his remarks and suggestions, i.e. he has applied the veto. I would like to announce the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation with proposals from the President of Ukraine. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Miroshnichenko. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Construction of Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u49	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you know that on January 13, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of urban activities. [[Registration number 7418]] And this law is designed to improve the regulation of urban relations, to significantly simplify permit and consent procedures in the construction sector, which will contribute to the further development of the building and adjacent sectors of the national economy. Yet, along with the positive sides, this act of legislation also contains a large number of additional problems that have created and caused considerable social resonance. In recent times, the name of the President of Ukraine has received many appeals from Ukrainian national deputies, including opposition. I want to mark Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, who has prepared such a great letter to the President of Ukraine, where he has set out his point of view. There have also been appeals from Ukrainian citizens, representatives of environmental, historical and architectural organizations, local self-government authorities, requiring the application of the veto to this act of legislation. After careful consideration of them, the President of Ukraine returned the law to Parliament with his proposals for reconsideration. According to the head of State, the law cannot be signed for the following reasons. First, the law violates the rights of citizens to participate in the planning and construction of areas. The Head of State pointed out that the provisions of the law have substantially narrowed down the subject matter of public discussion, the content and scope of which is defined by the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Landfilling, which loses the validity, rights of natural persons, as well as the guarantee mechanism guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine, the right to life and health of the environment, this is article 50 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Secondly, opportunities are being created to intervene in the exclusive competence of local self-government authorities to approve urban documentation. According to the head of State, the stated rule of law limits the rights of territorial communities to local self-government, which is guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. And it is the constitutional right of the territorial community to decide for itself the matter of local importance within the framework of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, this is article 140 of the Basic Law. This is also not in line with the constitutional standard of local self - control for executive authorities only in the exercise of executive powers. Thirdly, the law violates the right of owners to own, use and dispose of their property, since the issue of the construction or reconstruction of the engineering and transport infrastructure in their respective land areas can be achieved without their consent or even a report on it. This does not meet the basic constitutional principles for guaranteeing property rights. It is the right of everyone to exercise, exercise, and manage his or her property. The integrity of private property rights, the protection by the State of the rights of all property subjects, are clearly defined by the Constitution. Fourthly, the law has fundamentally changed the approach to the question of the obligation to conduct project documentation experts for construction. Amendments to some Ukrainian laws invalidate the obligation of a number of experts on construction projects, including environmental expertise, project expertise and other documentation to comply with regulations on fire safety, state health and epidemiological expertise, state nuclear and radiation safety expertise, state energy conservation expertise, and expertise on compliance with labour protection legislation. And I can also say about the preservation of cultural heritage, and the need for such expertise is being reversed. In support of measures to liberalize building activities, to remove excessive administrative influence in this area, and associated corruption risks, the President of Ukraine states that such measures should be accompanied by the definition of an adequate mechanism to ensure that construction projects are sure to comply with appropriate standards, standards, and rules, guaranteeing the quality of construction works. In his view, one such mechanism could be the personalized responsibility of the construction work subjects. In this regard, the Head of State considers it necessary to add to the final provisions of the law the task of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop and submit to Parliament a bill on responsibility for the negative consequences caused by the alleged violations of building standards and standards in the construction of the facilities concerned. The president of Ukraine proposes the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities, taking into account these observations and suggestions. Because the change in existing regulation in the construction sector should be balanced and balanced. Take into account the interests of both the builders and the citizens, the territorial communities and the state. After all, the results and consequences of construction work have a definite impact on the vitality of citizens and society as a whole. Dear colleagues! It's a very important law. That is why the president of Ukraine initiated a review of his proposals this very plenary week. And I urge you to support the President's proposals and to approve these proposals, the City Activity Act as a whole, as a law, so that he can act as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I now invite you to. Oh, I'm sorry. Yuri Romanovich, question. Please sign up for the questions, dear colleagues. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u51	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Yuri Romanovich! I am grateful to see that the veto has been vetoed on this law and that disgraceful phenomena such as the substantial narrowing of the subject of public discussion and everything else will finally be stopped. But I would ask you to bring to the President the concern that has even now been expressed on the front page of our parliamentary newspaper Voice of Ukraine, where to stop a scandalous construction near the Theatre Metro, near the Russian Dramatic Theatre on Bogdan Hmelnicksky Street, which is already being asked by the Russian President because they no longer believe in Ukrainian. So I would ask you, because this has a direct bearing on this law, because the monster is being built by a Russian businessman in the center of the Ukrainian capital. How can this be prevented, including by this law? And help me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u52	Thank you, thank you, Yuri Anatolyevich. Well, first of all, I thank you for your activity and your suggestions. It seems to me that the President's cooperation with the MPs when it comes to the comments that come even after the adoption of the bill shows that the President will listen to the thoughts of all the national MPs, regardless of the faction they represent, and by directing his attention exclusively to the proposals and their constructiveness, which are actually and are set out in their statements. Now, about the fact that you're quoting. That is why the President made his proposals so that without proper discussion, no construction in the city would take place without adequate expertise. As to the fact, I'm convinced that he's already studying at the President's office and I'm going to take another look at that fact. Thank you for your activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u53	Roman Zvaric, faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u54	Mr. Jury, let me say, first of all, to my sincere congratulations on this, that the President, at least you've sounded such a thesis, is willing to listen to the thoughts of everyone, without exception, of the Ukrainian people's deputies. It would be good, by the way, for the President of Ukraine to also draw the attention of the majority in Parliament to demonstrate similar behaviour, including, by the way, the President himself. Why do I say that? Because the President's proposals coincide with the criticism that was made in the session hall and by the opposition deputies. Unfortunately, this bill was introduced by the government, supported by the parliamentary majority, including, by the way, and you voted in favour of this bill, and most of it then did not listen to the arguments that were just being heard by members of the opposition. Therefore, the President should pay attention and still force the majority to listen to the rational arguments of the opposition MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u55	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich, thank you. Facts are stubborn. You can see that the President will listen. I have quoted today a whole list of references that have come, and, in particular, I have pointed out that the observations, such fundamental remarks by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, whom he has taught, and by other national deputies, have been heard and taken into account, and have even been the subject of a return to the Supreme Council of this bill. As for the President's influence on the majority or on Parliament as a whole, I would like to draw your attention as my colleague with the Committee of Legal Policy to the fact that, under the Constitution, the Supreme Council Institute is the only legislative, higher representative body that is independent, and any acts of parliamentary governance, to my conviction, and to the President's conviction, are all the more unacceptable. We have to find a common language with you, form a culture of discussion, and, I'm sure we already have.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik will now ask the questions calmly. She's giving Anatoly the right to Matthew, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u57	Mr. Yuri! Anatoly Matvienko, Sobore S.R.P., “Our Ukraine is National Self-Defense”. I'd like to address you. I'm less optimistic about what the President has taken into account, he's listening so much. Because in a formal way, maybe some side is there, but let's say in terms of expertise, it's not ecological, it's not archaeological, it's not nuclear. We go that way because of simplification, but we can lose just value, we can lose quality. That's one thing. And the second. Mr. Yuri, I will continue to address the President through you. If the President doesn't respect the Supreme Council, and you're the President's representative here, then it's a game. The Supreme Council is nothing, and the President is a good uncle. If this style of relationship with the Supreme Council continues, it seems to me that we will not go anywhere, because we are wasting time, and we have already turned the Supreme Council into a non-negotiable body. So I would like you to advise the President, and you, at the time of the adoption of the law, have defended the right decisions, not the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u58	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. But, well, I can't agree with you that the President doesn't respect Parliament. See, the comments and suggestions offered by the opposition are taken into account. And the requirement for this kind of expertise that you're talking about is in the president's comments. As for the honourable colleagues, our work with you and the drafting of the bills before they are approved, and taking into account the proposals of both the Cabinet of Ministers and the President at the first reading stage before the second reading, we have started this work. And thank you for your suggestions, and I invite all the deputies, including me to address the President so that he doesn't have to come back with his proposals. So I assure you that with regard to the drafting of drafts, this work must be systematic, to which I invite all our colleagues, including the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think the observations and warnings that have been made are absolutely correct. But let's see, before the second reading, the Chief Scientific and Legal Office gives its observations and recommendations. In many cases the committees don't take them into account, and when I sign the law, I send these remarks to the President all the time, which form the basis of the veto. Therefore, the problem lies with the committees, because the committees, one minute, all the committees, the question not only concerns the problem, should take the best possible account of the recommendations of the legal administration. And we are guided in many cases by political or corporate interests. So let's go back to the committee then, if we don't take note of the recommendation of legal administration, then we don't have any problems like that. Please, Vladimir Vasilovich, head of the Committee on Construction, Construction and Housing and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u60	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council has considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine for the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities, as well as a new version of this law, taking into account the President's proposals. 11 comments by the President of Ukraine have been processed, which are included in the comparative table of laws. All the president's remarks are taken into account by the committee without exception. The new edition allowed the text of the law to be fully accountable to the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the modern needs of society. It is possible: to reduce the number of allowable and agreeable procedures; to introduce in a permissive system the principles of a single window and the organization of unity; to carry out individual activities without obtaining a document of a permissive nature on the basis of a declaration of responsibility; to personalize the responsibility of the construction activity subject; to gradually move from licensing the economic activity associated with the creation of an object of architecture to professional certification of the performance of individual types of work; and to deregulation of economic activity through the transfer of parts of functions from state regulation and control of self-governing organizations. Thus, the law in the new edition will provide favourable conditions for conducting business, for exploration of the construction and adjacent sectors by improving arbitrary and agreeing procedures in construction, adapting the regulatory policy of Ukraine to European standards. The main scientific and expert office has reached a positive conclusion about the value of taking into account the President's proposals and the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation in a new edition. In view of the above, the committee proposes to adopt the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. [[No.7418]] Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, we will vote on the amendments that the committee has taken into account. The Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to support the committee's proposals. Amendment 1. What, what? There are no questions for the coconspirator. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, before the vote, then. Well, it's not a vote yet, we're working on the amendments. Well, I think we should stay for a while, yeah. Dear colleagues, 1 amendment, the committee supported it. Please note, I vote in favour of 1 amendment. Please. I'm voting on the proposal for 1 amendment, please vote. Vote. [[11:04:24]] For 260 Correction accepted. Now I'm putting to the vote 2 of the amendment, which is supported by the committee. Please vote. [[11:04:45]] For 262 Correction accepted. I'm betting on the 3rd amendment, and the committee supported it. Please vote. [[11:05:05]] For 268. Correction accepted. I'll bet you a vote on the 4th amendment. The committee supports it. Please vote. [[11:05:27]] For 265 Correction accepted. I'm betting on the 5th amendment, which is so supported by the committee. Please vote. [[11:05:48]] For 267 Decision taken. I'm betting on vote 6 of the amendment, which is also supported by the committee. Please vote. [[11:06:08]] For 266 Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of 7 amendments that are considered by the committee. Please vote. [[11:06:28]] For 268. Correction accepted. I'll bet vote on the 8th amendment. She's approved by the committee. Please vote. [[11:06:50]] For 268. Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of nine, which is also considered by the committee. Please vote. [[11:07:11]] For 273 Correction accepted. I'm putting 10 amendments to the vote. It's counted by the committee. Please vote. [[11:07:32]] For 270. Correction accepted. I'm betting on the 11th amendment taken into account by the committee. Please vote. [[11:07:58]] For 267 Decision taken. So the honourable colleagues, all the amendments proposed by the President of Ukraine, are taken into account. Kirilo Kulikov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u62	Thank you very much. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In fact, I said that the law had a good purpose. Because they must remove this administrative burden, the requirement of each builder’s construction cost. But unfortunately, not very good things are being seen. Looks like somebody's got to build something now, because. For example, the president's amendment to public hearings. There is no imperative, what is the significance of public hearing? The other one. This law in the Ending Positions is, should be, correct, that no changes are made to the Master Plan until the approval of the Master Plan. I have the impression that this is exactly what this law is about making changes to the Master Plan. And the third. I mean, in three months, the Law on Personal Responsibility will be introduced. And if they're already hurting, if they're destroying the city, if they're damaging the environment, then I have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u63	Please complete the formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u64	The main goal is someone wants to build something, like always near Sofia, near Lavra and somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u65	As far as responsibility is concerned, we have not introduced a personification for 20 years. And for three months, let's wait and develop the Cabinet of Ministers. They've been destroyed for 20 years. The second is public discussion. It states that the Cabinet of Ministers will continue to develop a full situation. But most importantly, colleagues, what the President has really said and written down everything about public debate. And we'll do it. And here's this Conciliation Council that's going to be looking at these issues. Here, too, these questions will all be resolved. There will be no introduction to Henplan. It also says: Who accepts, when, no one can change it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u66	Please sit down, Vladimir Vasilovich. For reasons of vote. It's a breach of procedure, Ivan Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u67	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, as I appreciate the President's proposals. Those proposals that are in large part, they're normal. But the whole president was just set up. The president rightly says that this law makes the regulation of urban activity worse, restricting human rights. This law does not reestablish any kind of prejudiced expertise. Instead, such a mechanism is proposed, corrupt, that we give in fact. Imagine building an object, destroying an archaeological heritage, or aggravating an ecological situation, and saying: Answer now. And they're gonna go after that construction guy, the D.A.'s office and stuff. The same with public hearings. Public hearings are now stipulated in the law, but this has been destroyed and is proposed to convey the order of discussion set by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thus, this law today, as amended by the President, did not diminish his destructive power. The president was just set up. I propose not to vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Let's move. Perhaps the law is imperfect, but if we do nothing, then our life will be completely imperfect. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the whole law, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, is the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation. [[Registration number 7418]] Please vote. [[11:12:37]] For 269 The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u69	We're looking at Bill 6380, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar on the Declaration of Presence of Sugar, with proposals by the President. Please, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich, representative of the President of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u70	Sugar. That's right, sugar. A sweet life. Honorary voters, honourable colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act of 21 December 2010 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar on the Declaration of the Presence of Sugar. [[Registration number 6380]] This law establishes the obligation of all business entities, regardless of the form of ownership, to declare the available quantities of sugar in order to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There is also financial responsibility for the failure or timely submission by entities of an enterprise of a declaration on the amount of sugar held in their possession or the inclusion in a declaration of incomplete or unreliable data. By the way, a fine of between 10 and 200 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes is foreseen. Under this law, the obligation to declare leftovers of sugar will apply not only to owners who manufacture or engage in wholesale trade, but also to every individual undertaking or small enterprise who has purchased sugar, for example, for their own consumption. The implementation of this standard in practice can lead to numerous abuses by controlling authorities. For example, regarding food establishments or small businesses. At the same time, the analysis and accounting of declarations made by legal persons will become much more difficult, making it virtually impossible to draw up a real picture of available sugar resources in the country, as foreseen by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. To adequately influence price policies in the sugar market. In order to avoid such risks, it is more appropriate for effective governance decisions to be made regarding the state regulation of the sugar market and the projected development of the price situation to be made more specific with regard to business entities, which will be extended to the specified declaration mechanism. And limit it only to those who produce sugar and store it for future implementation or do retail trade. Therefore, the President of Ukraine proposes a review of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar to declare the presence of sugar, taking into account the comments and proposals cited. Actually, I think that's pretty simple and clear. We need a list of subjects to regulate the sugar market. We need to file declarations. But only on the part of those who either produce or engage in wholesale trade. So that we don't make the accounting more difficult on the one hand. Because if there's the same calculation of sugar produced several times, both by the producers and by those who sold it retailly, and by those who actually consume it, we're not going to have a real picture. Please support the President's proposals. And to adopt a law that takes these proposals into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u71	Sign up for questions. Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u72	Mr. Jury Romanovich, this is a huge number of drafts on which the President's veto and the President's proposals testify to the unprofessional drafting of the bills and that we accept them as a short-term program without discussion. Because the objections are: with regard to the clear regulation of the circle of those who make declarations on the surpluses of sugar, it would also be submitted during the discussion and submitted by the Scientific and Expert Council. I don't think this proposal solves the whole question either, because, let's say, many farms that produce sugar, they still sell it. [[There's 50, 60, 70 bags.]] So it creates, it doesn't solve this question. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u73	Thank you for your attention. Well, you know, I'm not a sugar expert. So it would probably be inappropriate to comment on the effectiveness of the mechanisms that are being proposed on my part. But I'm a lawyer, and I can say that given that this law provides for compulsory declaration and responsibility, including financial responsibility, for non-declaration, I can say that if we don't define clearly the subjects involved in manufacturing and wholesale trade, we can actually cause another point of growth of corruption. Because they will come to small entrepreneurs and say, ‘ You have declared, you have not declared; you have more or less than you have declared. ’ And this is going to cause, well, additional corruption pressure on end consumers, who, well, wouldn't even, according to the Cabinet of Ministers, be the subject of this sugar. So I'm pretty sure on the one hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u74	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u75	Is it on? On the one hand, the proposals made by the deputies in this room and taken into account by the President clearly improve this mechanism, which is proposed by law. Will they be perfect? I can't say. But the fact that the quality of the law will be improved, as a result of taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, I am absolutely sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u76	Matthew Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u77	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” Block. Yuri Romanovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, by declaring deregulation, the government today, and the President, including, is going to reverse the regulation of an absurd one that does not exist in the world and which you just want to establish a state monopoly. We're fighting the consequences. Understand that the reason is that there is no infrastructure in Ukraine. These things are regulated by wholesale markets, an optical subject. We don't have options. We're not doing anything. Seven billion have been allocated, funded, and stolen. So if we don't create infrastructure, today we don't have flour, we're not going to have anything in this state, because the state can't be a regulator in market conditions. And that's why, Yuri Romanovich, we're not going there. I salute the President. And if we keep moving like this, we'll soon come to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u78	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. I want to remind you that the laws are passed by the Supreme Council. And this is what you and I have offered the President to sign the law that we believe will do. When I say we're with you, I mean the Ukrainian Parliament. And of course, I absolutely agree that under the conditions of the developed commodity market, with the existence of all the infrastructure, when the commodity markets are in operation, when the accounting is done, when the quotas, when future contracts are projected, of course, such a form will not be necessary. But if you speak for regulation through a declaration, a declaration is not an act of arbitrary order, it is an act of informational order. So I agree with you in essence with the problem, but I want to say that there is a specific law, there is a specific mechanism, and there is a threat that this mechanism will cause.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u79	It's a match.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u80	Thank you. Matsuk, Our Ukraine. Mr. Yuri, please tell me. Until then, whenever the government intervened and regulated some position, especially in the food market, it usually ended up in trouble, whether it involved oil or wheat, flour, or meat. The crumbs are still remembered. Now we see this situation with Greek. But it never occurred to me until now that I had previously gathered all the information about how much of this position is in Ukraine at all. Don't you think it could just end up a disaster because then administrative intervention can carry, well, just a destructive character? And then there's the second question. In which of the developed countries of the world is such a mechanism generally used, can you call it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u81	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Well, actually, you answered it yourself. When it comes to additional adjustment mechanisms, they are not acceptable. But you said yourself that we need to collect information, predict the quantities that are consumed in the market, the quantities of stocks that we have, from doing or doing product interventions, in order to keep market mechanisms price in the market. But all of this can't be done because there's no market infrastructure, markets don't work, and the only way to do that is to collect information through declaration. It's not a restriction on activity, it's just statistical information that's going to go to the appropriate ministry to let them know how much sugar in the country, so that we don't run and look for each of us, and we couldn't buy ourselves a kilogram of sugar to prepare something at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u82	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, from the committee we have the Kaletnik Grigory Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u83	He knows, he knows, Obama knows everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, there are proposals by the President of Ukraine for the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar on the Declaration of the Presence of Sugar, which provides for the introduction of a mechanism for the mandatory declaration of the presence of sugar. According to the President of Ukraine, the provisions of the adopted law on the introduction of mandatory declaration of the presence of sugar will apply not only to sugar-producing or retailing entities, but also to every individual undertaking that purchases sugar, for example, for its own domestic consumption, which can lead to numerous abuses by the controlling authorities, particularly regarding food establishments, small businesses and so on. The head of State therefore believes that in order to avoid such risks of ensuring effective governance decisions on the state market for sugar and the projected development of the price situation, it is necessary to specify the nature of the business activity in which the specified declaration mechanism will be extended and to limit it only to those sugar producing entities that store it and conduct wholesale and retail trade. The committee supported the comments and proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the adopted law and suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider it and approve it as a law in its final edition. Please be supportive. In addition, I would like to explain that sugar does not refer to goods that can be called “in the ranks of all others. ” We all understand that sugar, flour, grain is strategically an important food, product, and so it's a quota, and that's why we've made a commitment with you -- 260,000 tons to enable it to be implemented by other countries in the Ukrainian market, so knowing the availability of sugar is very, very important. I won't take up time with the national MPs, but we haven't taken care of you in this room once since we don't have sugar, we've adopted some legislation, we've got sugar. And no one knows where he was or why he came back. So it's a very important law, it's not regulatory, as the people's deputies here have been paying attention. It's not governed by the state, it's up to the state to know how many Greeks there are, how much sugar there is and how to plan the right actions. So once again, in view of this, I would like to ask for the support of the people's deputies to adopt this law with the President's proposals as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u85	Thank you. Sign up for questions. Bondarenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u86	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Timoshenko, Reform and Order Party. Of course, this absurd law allows today's controlling authorities to go to any kiosk, to any store, because it says that to control all those who engage in wholesale, retail trade, it can be complemented by a point, to ensure control of the level of sugar in the blood of citizens, in the power and so forth, it would be a complete logical addition to this law. I want to point out that only this government is taking on any problem, the Greeks -- so there is no deficit in the country, there is no flour -- it will soon be gone, you will take on the sugar that you are obliged to bring from Cuba 270,000 tons, recently Kopilov has reported it, and it will not happen either. Don't touch anything, it's all right, it's going while it's going. You're the only one who's getting married, and now there's a problem. This control will allow you to take bribes from anyone holding ten sugar packets in the kiosk. This law will allow you to go into every, I'll say, point of sale and take advantage of it. So take it off the table and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u87	There's nothing to answer, sarcasm is inappropriate, and in fact there's more politics than any common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u88	Take away his sugar. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u89	Yuri Carmazin. I, Your Honor Gregory Mikolaiovich, wanted to ask you this question. The name of the law, regardless of the President's remarks, did not apply, there is nothing in the law on state regulation of production. There's nothing about what the state does. There's nothing. Hence, it may be necessary to throw off the law’s title that this regulates production. Still, if we go this way, do you think we should go this way of developing legislation on the state regulation of production and implementation of Greek or sunflower there? Or furniture? Today, furniture has been announced in the morning that it will cost about a third of the furniture. And now the furniture is going to be expensive, and now the panic is happening, and people are calling, what are they going to do? So maybe you have to make changes to the name of the law here, because declarations and production are a little bit different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u90	Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you for asking. As a person who constantly investigates all the bills and you always have what to say, all I can do is ask you to read the title of the law carefully -- this is the Act of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on State Production Regulation and Implementation of Sugar." That is, the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of production and implementation of sugar is, works and, Glory to God, triumphs. It only changes the declaration in the online presence of the named entities. the presence of sugar. And all the regulatory issues are in the basic law that works and is passed just before.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u91	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, you've heard the report, the report. The committee's proposal, supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, is in line with the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. I'm voting on the President of Ukraine's first proposal. Please vote. [[11:32:16]] For 255 Supported. And it's the president's second proposal. [[11:32:35.]] For 254 So we have every reason to vote on the adoption of the entire Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State. [[You're not the President yet.]] "On State regulations for the production and implementation of sugar." [[on the declaration of the presence of sugar with the proposals of the President of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 6380]] Please vote. [[11:33:13]] For 260 The law is passed. We are considering the Law of Ukraine on the Return to State Property of a Whole Property Complex of a Society with Limited Responsibility "Herson Engineering Plant" with proposals from the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4530]] Please, Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u92	The right of immediate admission to a member of parliament is even during a meeting. That's why I'm sorry. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 4 November 2010 the Law on the return to state ownership of the entire property complex of society with limited responsibility "Herson Machine Plant". [[Registration number 4530]] In fact, the law provides for the compulsory alienation of a private property right object, which is a limited liability society called the "Herson Machine Plant", without defining in this or other law the order of such alienation. The law then contradicts the constitutional principles of forced alienation of private property and guarantees of the protection of property rights. In accordance with article 13 of the Constitution, the State guarantees the protection of the rights of all property subjects, the equality of all subjects of property rights before the law. Article 41, on the other hand, guarantees the integrity of private property rights. This article 41 of the Basic Law clearly defines the conditions for the compulsory alienation of private property. Such alienation is possible only as an exception to social necessity, provided that their value is fully compensated on the basis and in accordance with the law. Forced alienation and the next full compensation is allowed only under conditions of war or state of emergency. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has repeatedly stressed the inadmissibility of violating the constitutional guarantees mentioned. Before me at least two decisions are from February 12, 2002 No.3-RP/2002, from June 20, 2007, No.5-RP.2007. And let's say the October 16, 2008, decision No.24-RP./2008. It should also be noted that the Constitution of Ukraine clearly defined the powers of the Supreme Council in the area of property relations and established that the powers of the Supreme Council are limited to those referred to by the Basic Law of the State, in particular to determine the legal regime of ownership, to approve the listing of property rights that are not subject to privatization, to determine the legal principles for the removal of private property. At the same time, the Constitution does not authorize the Supreme Council of Ukraine to restore an object to state ownership. Therefore, the President of Ukraine proposes the Ukrainian Act on the return to the state ownership of the entire property complex of society with a limited responsibility of the Herson machine plant to reject as one adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine against the Constitution of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this is not about the proposals that need to be taken into account, but about the rejection of the law as a whole. It cannot be improved, for his philosophy is in itself contrary to the principles and standards of the Constitution of Ukraine, which are related to the protection of private property. Thank you for your attention. Please support the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u93	Who has any questions besides Carmazin? Is it? Please sign in. Yes, please, Viziewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u94	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". Would you not mention to the audience and to the radio audiences of Ukrainian citizens who voted in favour of such a weak law that it was necessary to abolish it to the President?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor. The Supreme Council of Ukraine voted. The decisions of the Supreme Council are approved by the majority. And including those who vote and uphold laws are representatives of both the Party of Regions and other factions that present opposition today. That's why I wouldn't want to translate the discussion into a debate about who's responsible for us adopting such a law. More importantly, the President, as a guarantor of the Constitution of Human and Civil Rights and Freedoms, is always the last Rubikon to control that you and I do not violate the rights of Ukrainian citizens. We should be grateful for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u96	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u97	I ask my questions carefully to listen to those Ukrainian national deputies who think they are patriotic. I voted in favour of this bill. During the vote, Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar’s speech was the most well - reasoned criticism. In a legal way, he put this bill in the draft, which is now confirmed by the President's veto. I voted because there is a problem. Yuri Romanovich, the problem is that, using different schemes, the Herson Combinary simply stole the Ternopil Combin factory under the same scheme, released 4 and a half thousand KM-6 complexes in 1991. Today he's just been robbed, robbed. We used to have this big patriot in the session room, who also grabbed sugar factories, cut half of them into scrap metal, and now we're looking for where to get the sugar. Yuri Romanovich, this problem is and we will return to it someday.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u98	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. And thank you to Alexander Bondar, because he's really been drawing our attention to you and he's one of the most professional people in privatization. I confirm that there is a problem. You remember that there were numerous appeals to both the deputies and the President of Ukraine, and they were discussed in the media, but at the same time there is a constitutional legal mechanism, and this mechanism is linked to judicial review. When it comes to a violation during privatization, we need to identify these violations, including through our Privatization Control Board, where Mr. Bondar is a substitute, and ask this question to the Holding Fund, for example. He may be the initiator of an appeal to a court, but applying a precedent when a state can first sell and then take away is dangerous in terms of the principles of democracy and the rule of law in Ukraine, to which our President draws attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u99	That's a little wrong, Yuri Romanovich. The state can sell, and it can take. The Constitution allows, so don't say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u100	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u101	Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the Herson Combins for Herson is an absolutely remarkable enterprise. Today, the population of Hersonians has fallen by 50,000. Because people essentially have no place to work. They cannot earn either their own or their children’s bread. The solution to this problem is absolutely important to both the government and the Supreme Council. I agree that the proposed law has some flaws. But the government does not offer anything in the form of this law. I can see some reasons for that. The owner of this plant is Mr. Olijnik, who is the eyepiece of the White Church Regional Party. In fact, he is seriously leading businesses to degradation. The activities of its executive structures in the factory carry a number of crimes. But neither the government nor the President reacts. This factory could only be returned on the basis of a criminal offence. There's no response to power. There's a reduction in the population in Hersonian. These are innovations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u103	Thank you. I want to emphasize once again that the state, like anyone else, can't take over anyone's property. It can be eliminated on social grounds by paying off money that belongs not to the State but to other owners. And in this way we have to regulate, adopt the law. As for the proposed mechanism here, it is not predictable at all. Although the Constitution speaks on the basis of the mechanisms to be provided for in the law. As far as the problem is concerned, I agree with it. As I answered Mr. Suhigo’s questions, I emphasized that there was a problem. And we should be acting as deputies, including with a monitoring commission on privatization issues, as authorized by the Supreme Council, to work in this direction. Control the privatization situation and initiate lawsuits in case of violations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u104	Thank you. Please sit down. Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee on Economic Policy
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u105	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The committee considered the proposals proposed by the President for the law, supported the President's veto by a majority of votes and considered it appropriate to reject the law. But I would like, from a professional point of view, to give some explanations, especially that there was a reference here. I am very grateful that they remember my previous speech when this law was passed and when I spoke to the committee. What was I stressing? In his form, the President did the right thing by rejecting this law. But in fact, he was prepared with absolutely unqualified explanations of the reasons for the veto. I want to explain what they're all about. And the next two vetoes of the President, I, too, from the professional point of view of the Secretary of the President, would like to give an analysis. The fact is that this law, this object, was never sold by the State or privatized. The state had nothing to do with the sale process of this object, so to speak of nationalization, and more than the law stipulated, the return of some of the funds from the budget to the owner is a complete nonsense that I've been talking about from this rostrum. This object, in its time, was handed over to the government by a package of shares in the Agro-Invest holding company along with all the agro-industry companies. And Agromashholding himself, violating all the laws, the Constitution, laws, without any permission, sold these objects and took the money to the account of Agromashholding. There was a vicious corruption scheme for which all its perpetrators were to be held accountable. The fund has repeatedly filed with the court on this matter, but legal scribbling has always prevented these objects from being returned to state property. By the way, I want to say that all the heads of the foundation, starting with me, signed the letters, insisting that these packets, which were passed on to government property, were state-owned and had no right to sell. The only letter we considered on the committee led by Odarchenko on this subject, which was signed by the head of Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk Foundation, said that these packages were not state-owned. And that's what started the whole problem. So I want to say that when I came out of this rostrum, I said that the object should be returned to state property, but that it should be returned through the courts, because of criminal offences, because of orders from those involved. I want to say again, the State in the State Property Fund has always opposed this sale and has repeatedly appealed to the court. Before voting on this package, by the way, who voted for it, I want to remind you. I approached my colleague, who led the fund after me, Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov, who knows very well how this object was sold, and told him that this law could not be passed, because it does not carry anything in itself in fact, it cannot be accomplished, and he does not decide anything. But the party solidarity of the Communist faction, because the authors of the law were Simonenko and Tkachenko, refused to listen to my arguments. Now, the President seems to have heard it, but the veto language is completely out of proportion to reality. What we read by the President's representative in Parliament is about the privatization process, the articles of the Constitution that refer to the nationalization of objects, where we really need a preliminary compensation or a refund on reselling. How can the state here return money if the state didn't get it for any of these packets? I want to remind you that in due course a special commission of investigators was set up, led by my colleague from BUT Odarchenko, who prepared a very qualified, principled analysis of everything that was going on. The report of this committee, which was to be supported by parliament but did not support it, recorded everything that needs to be done, starting with the prosecution's office, the Cabinet of Ministers, the holding fund. Sadly, though, no one wants to do so. One of the explanations on a particular subject has already been given by my colleague Odarchenko, and on other subjects, I think that the same interest is in the people who were involved in this affair, I would say so, on an international scale. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u106	Sign up for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u107	Yours, yours, yours. This was when Yushchenko was prime minister. Can I have a glass, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u108	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Montenegro. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, it is impressive that you recognize that privatization or acceptance was carried out under corrupt schemes. You're saying the only way to get it back through the courts right now. But you also said before that that you tried through the courts to get back, nothing worked out. So it won't work in the future. That's why I think it's the most faithful thing to do if the Supreme Council beats the President's veto and returns this factory to state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u109	I want to say again that even if the President's veto is over, his signing will not solve the problem of the return of this plant, because there is a mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, and it is anticipated that the owner of the money from the state budget that has never been budgeted from this facility will be returned. The other one. If the Maintenance Fund is qualified with lawyers to defend the interests of the state, if they are supported by the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers, all courts can be won. I can assure you that all we have to do is prove that the objects that passed on in their time at the Agroshholding were state property, and they weren't deleted. That's why no one had the right to sell them. All right, you don't have to do anything anymore. But it takes political will and legal qualifications, nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u110	She's a blacksmith.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Bondar, I have a question for you. You gave a very beautiful account of what it was, but you didn't name it or name it, which means the participants of everything whose government it was, who was the prime minister, who was the president at the time, who headed the Agrofond. I mean, well, and maybe it would be worth it if we were to refer the Supreme Council to the DA's office to look at it, to establish the guilt, the responsibility of it all. Well, once again, as I understand it, the only way to resolve this issue is through the courts. This is certainly a question that should be raised by the Supreme Council, and perhaps we should take such a decision now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u112	Thank you for asking. I did not aim to make political assessments here and to determine the circle of those who took part in these schemes. I want to ask my colleague Odarchenk, he will give you a full report of our committees he's reported, called all the names, all the governments: when, where did this happen? He'll give it to you, it's all written there. This is absolutely not the new information that I'm supposed to announce to you right now. From a professional point of view, I appreciate today's issues, not in terms of politics. This was done many years ago, but the main problems that have arisen in the implementation of these packages have occurred since 2003. That's the only thing I can say.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u113	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u114	Eugene Kirilchuk, BUT-Batychina faction. Dear reporter! The Honourable Head of the Committee! That's how many people's deputies are ready to sign today under the MP's request to the Attorney General's Office. If we have it, then. Yes, and not just political repression, then we have some legal basis in the state. Is there such a possibility? And will the Attorney General file such a criminal case on this affair that you called it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u115	I repeat, you have your colleague sitting next to you on the faction of Deputy Odarchenko, who has all the materials as the head of the Temporary Control. There's a commission of inquiry. We made all these decisions on the committee by a majority. And there's an appeal to the Attorney General's Office. If you want him to write a letter to the Attorney General, we'll go there again. But this has not been done once. I want to tell you again. In order to return all these objects, including the Herson Combination Plant, to state property, it takes the political will of the leadership of the state and the qualified escort of a lawyer. I'm willing to work as a consultant with these lawyers, make normal demands. But we can't do that as an opposition, it should be the authorities that do it, not throw it here on some laws, some veto or something like that. This is an absolutely procedural legal question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u116	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] What he called it, he called it entirely different. You're an outcast. [[B in m in s a l in]] I repeat, if all the national MPs are going to be in charge of the Supreme Council meeting, that's not going to work, first. Second, Odarchenko, as head of the Temporary Special Commission. the commission of inquiry reported to the Supreme Council on the work of its commission. The one who wanted to hear it, hear the one who didn't hear it, read the report. Yes, Your Honor, the committee's conclusion: to support the President's proposals. The main scientific and legal department is the same. And the President is suggesting that we reject, reject the law, even though each of us understands the problem, and we need to regulate it at the legislative level. Not only the Hersons, but in this case, we have a problem with the Hersons' factory, and unfortunately, you and I haven't solved it, and we're going to leave it in the same situation. But I am voting for a proposal that came from the committee: to support the President's proposal and to reject the Law on the Return to State Property of a Whole Property Complex of a Society with Limited Responsibilities "Herson Machine Plant", registration number 4530. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:56:31]] For 206 The President's proposal is not supported. What will be the other suggestions? Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u117	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, it is clear that the President's argument with a message, a reference to article 41 of the Constitution, which referred to the lawfully acquired property, has nothing to do with what took place in this case. As a result, this law should be reexamined, now being prepared. And I think that what colleague Bondar was talking about, we need to go back to the decision of the commission of inquiry, and vote on that decision of the commission of inquiry, which the Supreme Council has not voted for, because in fact, the law is right. Little by little there's a point to him. And Mr. Oliynik today, a well - known man, may he give up this factory, or let Mr. President show the same principle as he does to the opposition he is being put in prison today. Everything and the factory will be returned to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u118	Yes, please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u119	Respected Adam Ivanovich, the discussion took place, and arguments were heard, both on the one hand and on the other. I think we should move on to the procedure now, according to the rules. If the President's proposal has not been cast in favour of the rejection of the law, let's take the veto, vote and move on to the next issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u120	Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u121	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, the vote has shown that a large number of deputies in the Hall understand that the situation is absurd. The absurd thing is that you can steal a business. Moreover, stealing protects the Constitution in this case. So I'd like to support the proposal that we should ask the question of overcoming the veto. The result is another thing. But this question has to be asked to overcome the veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u122	Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, as we discuss our decision, there are intensive processes at the plant today when equipment is cut out. The question goes, literally, it can be solved for days or weeks. So today we need to make a decision, even though it is an imperfect law, but we need to vote for it. It allows for the restoration of the country’s combined construction. We're building spaceships, and there's no combine. And as for the person who signed the order, the honourable colleagues, as the chairman of the commission, I can say that the government's final order, which led to the government's withdrawal, was signed by Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. So today we must correct this mistake. And then we're going to figure out how much this return cost is worth and vote in favour of overcoming the veto under this bill. Every day, about a hundred people under the Administration want to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, we will be guided by 135 articles that say that the President's proposal is the first to be voted on. I put them up. They were not supported, namely, about the rejection of the law. Now there will be a proposal for the adoption of a law, that is, overcoming the President's veto. It takes 300 votes. Please vote. [[12:00:58]] For-126 The factions? Please. Please. The Party of Regions – did not vote, BUT – 94, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 4, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, the People's Party – did not vote, non-fractional – 2. Based on what no decision has been made, the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u125	The offer was.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u126	Yes, there's an offer to direct the committee. There's a proposal from a colleague of Knyazevitch. No, he's taking it off. Okay, then the bill is rejected. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u127	We're continuing the meeting. To choose. Please, I invite the head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Igor Leonovich Samsin to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u128	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! According to article 76, part three, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53 and 64 of that Act, and examined the referral of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities to the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who had reached the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine in a state during the consideration of the commission for recommending them to serve as judges on an indefinite basis. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, I introduce the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for judges on an indefinite basis. The following draft regulations are proposed for your consideration. Draft Decision on the Election of Judges. [[No. 8112]] Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Lutsky District Court of Volin County, Ischuk Larissa Petrovna; Pavlova District Court of Zaporozhye District, Ivanchenka Maksim Valeriyovich; Stahanov City Court of Luhansk district Kuznetsov Marina Leonidivna; Domanów District Court of the Mikolai District of Vadovska Alla Vasilovna; Velikobogachansky District Court of Poltava District, Demyanchenka Sergio Mikolaiovich; The Kotelev District Court of the Province of Poltava, Zagniyko, Antonina Volodymyrna; Horol District Court of Poltava, Karpushina Grigori Leonidovich; Vladimirec District Court of Ravensk, Olen Valerievna; Izum District Court of Kharkiv, Heikin Vadim Mihajlovich; First-May City Court of Kharkiv, Biblva Stanislav Volodymirovich; The Sanhedrin District Court of Kiev, Santa Claus, Ivana Yuriyovna; Lviv County Administrative Court Kuzmić Sergey Mikolayovich, Martinyuk Vitali Jaroslavovich; Kharkiv District Administrative Court of Zinchenko Andrija Viktorovich; The court-martial of Kyiv Didichenko Marina Anatoliyevna, Litwin's Marina Eugenena. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u129	Thank you, Igor Leonovich. Dear colleagues, I have not seen any objections to the candidates. So we have reason to vote in the 8112 Order on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. Please be supportive. [[12:35:03]] For 311 Decision taken. Please proceed with your ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u130	Draft Decision on the Election of Judges. [[No. 8112-1]] To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv district of Fitzak Taras Dmitrovic; the Court of Appeal of Kirovograd district of Antsek Sergey Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil region of Kostiva Alexandr Zinovovich; The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Silantiev Elin Eugenyevna; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Ivanchenka Mikolaiovich, Kiriluk Galina Mikolayovna, Kulikov Svetlana Vasilivna, Osipov Ludmila Alexandrovna, Pavelenko Oksana Petrovna, Strigeus Anatolia Mikolaiovich; Vinicki Administrative Court of Appeal - Matochnuk Dmitr Borisovich; The Žitomir Administrative Court of Appeal - Žiznevska Angel Vladislavna, Kotik Tetjana Stanislavna, Malachi’s Natalija Maratovna; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal is Sudov-Homuk Natalya Mikhailnovna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u131	Thank you. There were also no comments, no objections, so we have the opportunity to put to the vote a bill under number 8112-1 on the election of judges on an untimely basis. Please be supportive. [[12:36:53]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us welcome a positive decision and wish for justice in the state. [[Applause]] We continue to review draft legislation with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Perhaps, dear fellows, we'll follow the procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u132	Sure. Who is it that Bill No. 4552 – "On amending certain laws of Ukraine on the prevention of the alienation of property rights that are not subject to privatization" – should be considered in a reduced position, please identify yourself. [[12:37:52]] For-195 Decision taken. Please Deputy Minister of Economy Alexander Anatolyevich Sukhomlin. Please, you have two minutes. Prepare Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u133	Good afternoon, dear Adam Ivanovich! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 6 July 2010 the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Prevention of Deprivation of State Property Rights Unprivatized was not signed by the President of Ukraine on such grounds. The bill is intended to amend part 6 of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property in the framework of the ban on reorganization, the liquidation of enterprises included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatisation to exclude them from the listed list. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals, the norm is not in line with article 116, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part one of the first article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on Cabinet of Ministers and article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the administration of public property objects in part of the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine's mandate to manage public property objects, including decisions on the creation, reorganization and liquidation of economic structures, restructuring of enterprises that are not subject to privatization, etc. Thus, the President of Ukraine proposes to consolidate in the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property the constitutional mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take decisions on the reorganization and liquidation of state property objects that are not subject to privatization, by introducing paragraph 2 of Section I of the Act as follows: “The merger, association, separation, division, conversion and liquidation of legal persons included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, as well as those defined in part two of article 5 of this Act, is carried out by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.” We propose to support the proposal by the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Prevention of Deprivation of State Property Rights Objects Unprivatized.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u134	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. Please sit down. Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar. I won't. Please sit down. Short-term procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u135	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The committee considered the President's proposals, and by a majority of votes, it decided to accept the President's proposals. I will express my personal opinion on the committee. I strongly oppose the president's amendments and explain why. This project, I want to remind you, is government. He predicted that in order for a government or a ministry to have the right to reorganize, liquidate, join, and so forth, which is a disguised privatization, action, they would have to contact the Supreme Council and remove the designated object from the banned list. Only after that can we do that. Today, as of 2009, out of 1,800 objects banned from privatization, 140 objects have been virtually removed from this list by government decisions, 47 objects have been transferred to statutory management funds, 13 have been reorganized, 12 have been transferred to economic structures, and 5 have been reorganized. 47 objects. That is, there is a process of such a hidden removal of objects from state property, further away. And by the way, the previous example of "Herson Machine Plant" is this exact same scheme: it's deleted, and then sold out, and the state gets nothing. So, we thought, and the government agreed, by the way, that the Supreme Council agreed that such actions could only be carried out by decision of the Supreme Council. And I think that the President, when he was preparing the veto, he was given a veto, which concerns all objects, and we're talking about people who are not allowed to privatize and can't be removed. Now, what's going on? The President has restored the old rule, and now it is possible for Kabmin to do so. And for example, an example for you. I want to create a SP between Naftogaz and Gazprom without any decision of the Supreme Council, and the government is making decisions about merger, reorganization, liquidation, and this object is the property of another state. So I don't think we can make that decision, we need to get past the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u136	Yes, thank you, dear colleagues. Let's be clear. The president had one amendment, and the committee counted it in a comparable table. So I'm voting on the proposal to support the President's proposal, amendment number one. [[12:43:28]] For 213 The offer is not supported. There's a proposal for a veto. Please vote. [[12:43:56]] For-72 No, it's not. Dear colleagues, as the President does not propose to reject the law, perhaps we should send him to work on the committee, and let the committee try to put forward these arguments, which I think they have made perfectly reasonable statements here, that this does not apply to all enterprises, and that is only to enterprises that are included and approved by the Supreme Council in the list of those that are not privatized. And then it turns out that we, the Supreme Council -- the only body that has the right to accept such questions, have accepted them, and then the Cabinet of Ministers can fix us -- it's unconstitutional, I think. Let's get the committee back to work, please support this idea. [[12:45:01]] For the 320. For processing. I would really ask the committee to find a way to resolve this in the constitutional field. The issue of the preservation of health facilities, the Ukrainian Act on the Conservation of Health Institutions in State and Municipal Property, is being considered with proposals from the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6436]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. It may not be forbidden if at least 150 national deputies are spoken. [[12:45:42]] For 206 The will of 206 national deputies is counted. The bill is being reviewed by a reduced procedure. Please, the representative of President Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u137	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Supreme Council approved the Ukrainian Law on the Conservation of Health Institutions in State and Municipal Property. [[by registration number 6436]] But according to the President, the approach proposed in the bill to ensure the preservation of health facilities in state and municipal property is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and does not guarantee the achievement of the stated goal, namely, to provide adequate conditions for the recovery and rest of the population. In particular, the establishment of a proposed ban on utilities is an intervention in local self - control. It violates the territorial rights of rural communities, towns, cities, or local authorities authorized by the Constitution. Furthermore, the prohibition provided for by law would prevent the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and authorized ministries, other central executive authorities, local self-government authorities of decisions to terminate the activities of health institutions in the event of violations by such institutions of health legislation, non-compliance with national requirements on the quality of health care and other activities in the field of health care or against their statutes, this is part of article 16 of the “Basicity of Ukrainian legislation on health protection”. This may result from the existence of health facilities that do not meet the established criteria and guarantees of quality health care. This, in turn, will lead to the failure of the State to fulfil its constitutional obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u138	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u139	on the creation of conditions for effective and accessible health care for all citizens. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine proposes, taking into account all the circumstances that I have set out and which I regret not to lay down within this framework, to reject the law of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention and please support the President's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u140	Thank you. By Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u141	Dear National Deputies! Well, that's another example where the government and most people make decisions, and the President has a different opinion about that, and especially, in principle, this is not professionally formulated by the Secretary of the President. If we can agree that the Supreme Council does not really have the right to intervene in the matter of municipal property, then the President's Secretariat would have to amend this law and leave the ban on state property and remove it for municipal property. But the Secretariat is preparing a full veto for the law, and it's setting up the President to talk about it. That the President would continue to embalm health facilities, stretch property and do anything else that would prevent people from getting better. I would like to remind you that on March 4, 2004, the Constitutional Court for the Prohibition of the Elimination of Preschool Institutions, which are in state and municipal property under the Law on Preschool Education, recognized that it is in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. That is, such a similar norm is the decision of the Constitutional Court and reference to it by the President's Secretariat would not be very appropriate. Once again, I want to say that this decision was not a separate MP, it was a Supreme Council decree, adopted by a majority of its composition, which introduced a moratorium on the alienation of health facilities, and it was directed by the government to the new government to prepare a law that forbids it. The government filed it. The Supreme Council confirmed the majority of the votes. The secretarial office found that this was related to municipal property. We would vote on this amendment, but we would leave it to the state. But now we are asked to reject the law as a whole. I think that this amendment should either be put into committee work or overcome the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u143	There is no discussion. Discuss.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u144	Me? I didn't take anything. 206 national deputies. Carmazine, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u145	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, I am paying attention, apparently, to the President's failure to inform us of article 49 of the Constitution. Personally, I made an amendment prohibiting the reduction of the existing network of public and municipal health facilities. I'm stressing to you, state and municipal. This law applies to health facilities located in public utilities. That is, this law has a direct bearing on article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And that's why I can see that we have no other option than what Bondar's colleague now offered. We need to get to the veto. I turn to the right hand, which defines here as the majority vote. Please pick it up and don't be afraid. All you have to do is thank the President. Don't worry about raising your hand. Well, at least it'll have to be corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u146	Yes, dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the Act on the Conservation of Health Institutions in State and Municipal Property. [[Registration number 6436]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:52:59]] For the 220. The decision is not supported. There's an offer: Correct. There's an offer: beat the veto. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:53:24]] For 116 None of the decisions are supported. Alexander Mikolaiovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee's proposal was to support the president's proposal. Bondar, please. Bondar may offer, but the committee has proposed something else.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u147	Turn on the microphone, please. I'm talking to the majority. I think she'll support this offer. The president's remarks said that it was impossible to interfere with local self-government, to ban municipal property. The committee is prepared to introduce this amendment into the law and to make a new edition. But state property needs to be left under ban. We're ready to do this. So I'm asking you to send me to the committee for work. Because the President's veto text is different from the general veto to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u148	Yes, there is an offer to send a committee to work on it. Others can no longer be offered. I'd like to make sure you're working on it. [[12:54:49]] For 1052 Yes, the honourable colleagues, therefore, the law that the Cabinet of Ministers passed and the President's vows were rejected. We now have to consider the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service with the President's proposals. However, the committee requests that he be transferred to the next plenary week. Please support this proposal. Registration number 4071, transfer to next week. [[12:55:45]] For 251 The decision is supported. We're looking at the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Accounting for Natural Gas and Electricity, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Registration number 7115. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:56:18]] For 206 Offer supported. Reported to the Deputy Minister for Housing and Utilities Olga Panasovna Romanyuk. Please, two minutes. Getting ready for another one is only Romanyuk, deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u149	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! It is undeniable today that the issue of ensuring timely and recalculation of water-, heat- and water-supply plants and natural gas is now becoming particularly relevant. Also of particular relevance is the issue of securing payment, the timely payment of all financial payments to businesses that are provided for by law. With a view to resolving the identified problem, the Cabinet of Ministers developed and introduced a bill of 9 September 2010, which envisaged the establishment of a mechanism at the legislative level for the calculation of natural monopolies for energy consumption using current accounts and a special mode of use. [[Registration number 7115]] In our view, this would contribute to the accumulation of funds that come as fees for the provision of water and sanitation services from all categories of consumers for their further purpose in carrying out balanced calculations for electricity consumption, natural gas, and the financing of the primary financial obligations of businesses provided for by valid legislation. The Ministry of Regional Development of Construction and Housing and Utilities was reviewed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 14 December of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on gas and electricity calculations]] And we are forced to say today that it is significantly different from the draft Ukrainian Law, which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[No. 7115]] As a result of the discussion, the Ministry supports the comments made by the President of Ukraine and his proposal to reject the adopted law. Our reasoning comes from the following. Ukraine’s Supreme Council law severely narrows down the list of enterprises that are obliged to conduct energy bills with the application of the current accounts by a special use regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u150	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u151	We propose to support the President's proposal and reject the bill, and to go back to that draft law that was registered under number 7115.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u152	Thank you, sit down. Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, committee opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u153	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, Committee of the Supreme Council on the Fuel and Energy Complex of Nuclear Politics and Nuclear Dangers, considered the President of Ukraine's proposals for the Ukrainian Law on amending certain laws on natural gas and electricity calculations. [[Registration number 7115]] [[of 09.09.2010]] [[adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 14 December 2010]] The president proposes to reject the law as one that does not meet the purpose of its adoption, to improve the calculations of residential households for energy consumption. The amendments voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to distribute the law only to a heat-efficient enterprise whose heat-energy tariffs have been approved at the level of economically sound costs, taking into account profitability. And the cost of no more than a fraction of the fuel component can be used for the calculation of the gas consumed in terms of heat-energy tariffs, which have been approved at the level of economically sound costs, taking into account profitability. These amendments have made the law virtually ineffective. We know that in all of us, without the exception of heat companies, the tariff level does not correspond to an economically sound level. Who, then, can be affected by this law? Such an opinion, like the President, was followed by a committee, passing a bill for second reading, and the committee's well-founded position was expressed before the amendments were voted on, but it was not supported by a chamber in the vote. As a result, we have the expected veto. The committee agrees with him and invites the Supreme Council to also agree with the President and reject the adopted law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u154	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, there is no discussion when considering the President's proposals. I put to the vote the President's proposal, supported by the Committee and the Scientific and Experimental Administration, to reject Bill 7115, "To amend certain laws of Ukraine on natural gas and electricity calculations." Please be supportive. [[13:01:41]] For 260 The decision is supported. The law is rejected. Let's go to chapter two. A draft Law on the Legal Regime of Lands of Protective Areas of Mainway Pipeways is under consideration. [[Registration number 0960]] [[resecond reading]] Deputy Head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, Valérie Fedorovich Bevanzenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u155	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill on the legal regime of the lands of the protected areas of the highway pipelines was aimed at rereading the second reading with a view to taking into account the observations made to it by the Chief Legal Authority on December 2, 2010. [[by Marmazov Evgeny Vasilovich and Alexeiev Igor Viktorovich]] In the drafting of the bill, seven proposals were made to read again from the Ukrainian national deputies, of which 4 were counted, 3 were rejected. From the proposals taken into account, these are proposals that, four proposals are aimed at removing the comments of the General Legal Authority. Of the three rejected proposals, this is one proposal by National Deputy Carmazin No. 5, which is proposed to exclude in the bill the term "magistral pipeline" as one that exists in the basic law on pipeline transport. In addition, two proposals were rejected, number 24 and 31, by national deputy Lukianchuk Ruslan Valeriyovich, who agreed with the committee’s decision on their rejection. Consultations and discussions were held in the process of drafting the bill for second reading by the Committee, including proposals by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of a fuel-energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear safety of Minpalevenergo, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the NAK Naftogaz Ukraine, the UKtransgaz DK and the UK Transnaft VAT. The draft legislation proposed for the second reading is fully supported by all the bodies listed. The bill is important to the state. Unlike existing legislation, it contains an effective mechanism for the establishment and enforcement of restrictions on the use of land located in the protection zones of highway pipelines. But it provides a parity of interests for one of the enterprises of the main pipelines, and for the other, landowners and land users. The main legal administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Apparatus was set up without notice. In view of this, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who have made contributions, be in the rostrum for the time being, be in the rostrum. Who among the deputies who made the amendments are rejected, insists? There's no such thing. No one insists on voting on the amendments considered by the committee? Oh, no? Then I put to the vote a proposal for a profile committee to adopt in the second reading and in the whole of the Law on the Legal Regime of Land Protection Areas of Mainway Pipeways, please vote. [[Registration number 0960]] Don't call the wolf out of the woods. [[13:05:28]] For 294 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, the next bill of the committee suggests that we postpone consideration to reconcile certain positions with that of reaching an agreed decision. So I'm proposing to transpose the amendment bill into some Ukrainian legislation. [[by number 7035]] [[on improving land management in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Please be supportive. [[13:06:11]] For 244 Supported. I ask the committee to work on this issue. A bill to amend the Ukrainian Plant Protection Act is under consideration. [[Registration number 4593]] [[second reading]] Corporal Grigory Mikolaiovich, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u157	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Plant Protection Bill was returned on January 13th of this year to the committee chairing the plenary due to the fact that it had violated certain requirements of article 116 of our Rules at that time. The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee was discussed on February 1, 2011 and brought into line with the requirements and the draft bill for consideration. All the amendments to the committee were considered and taken into account. The 13 amendments were partially taken into account. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of this draft Act amending the Ukrainian Plant Protection Act on second reading and generally as a law. [[No. 4593]] I would also like to say that the observations made by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council on the Committee have also been carefully examined and not supported by the interpretation of the General Legal Office, and were accepted by the members of the committee in that editorial that amended our national deputies. The bill also takes into account the requirements of the memorandum between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine and the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, and the Federal Veterinary, Phytosanitary, Safety of Plant Origin Production, which is supplied from Ukraine to the Russian Federation as part of the pesticide, nitrate and nitrate content of October 19, 2010. I would therefore like to take into account the opinion of the committee and adopt the prescribed bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u158	Thank you. Only a little clarification, Georgi Mikolaiovich, is taken into account, not in part, but 13 suggestions have been considered, 11 of which are taken into account in full, and 2 in part. Does the author of these suggestions, Deputy Komar, insist on their basis? Oh, no? Are there no objections to those that are included? I can't see. Then I put to the vote the committee's proposal, although the Chief Legal Authority points out that the bill requires substantial further elaboration and re-reading. But the committee's proposal to accept it in second reading and in general as the Act amending the Ukrainian Plant Protection Act. [[Registration number 4593]] Please vote. [[13:10:02]] For-300 The law is passed. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Vines is under consideration. [[on the competence of the central executive authority of agriculture]] [[Registration number 7049]] The chairman of the committee will report to Kaletnik Grigory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u159	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! It's a very valuable law amending the Grapes and Vines Act. The purpose of drafting the bill is to avoid duplication of existing legislation by making appropriate changes to the current Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Wine. The adoption of this law will provide legislative solutions to the following issues: the approval of technical documentation and regulatory documents for the production of wines, the processing or destruction of forged wines, vermouths, horsemen, brandy confiscated by a court decision. The bill also refers to the name of the central executive body on agricultural and food policy in Ukraine. The committee received four proposals from the National Deputies, number two, negative two. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the prescribed bill in second reading and generally as a law. If there is an insistence on arguing with the rejected amendments, I am ready to respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u160	Yes, please. Here are 3 amendments, 1 is counted, 2 is rejected. Strange doesn't insist. Carmazine, 3rd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u161	Yuri Carmazin. I have amendment 3. In part four of article 15 of the law, replace the word “with the order that is approved” with the words “the order that is determined”. I think legal technology would be better off that way. And I don't know why the committee turned him down. The point is that this does not bring any political burden, such as grapes and grapes. This is exactly what the hall and all the Ukrainian people should be united. Regrettably, he lacks enough money for both grapes and vines, and so they drink the surrogate. So I'm asking you to write this text right over here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u162	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. As always, you make very appropriate adjustments and suggestions. But with regard to this amendment of yours, it is regulated by the Ukrainian Law on the Elimination of the Traffic of Processing, Processing, Destruction or Further Use of Inadequate and Dangerous Produce, where are these definitions that you are referring to, by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decision on the Approval of the Procedure for the Elimination or Destruction of Inadequate or Dangerous Alcoholic Drinks, there is also a interpretation of these values, as well as Cabinet Regulation No.985 on the Approval of the Order of Assets Confiscated by a Decision of the Court and Transmitted to the Authorities of the State Enforcement Service. Therefore, in view of the absence of the need for a separate decision by the government on these issues, which were already regulated by the legislation and the law, the Committee considered that this amendment could be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u163	I'll bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Not necessarily Yuri Anatolyovich, he's good today. Thus, we have reason to propose to the committee on the adoption of the law in the second reading and in general. He was called upon by the chief legal authority without any notice. This is about Bill 7049 – On Amendments to the Law on Grapes and Wine. Please vote. [[13:14:35]] For 252 Decision taken. Bill No. 2518 - Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the provision of a secret ballot]] Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Upper Sergey Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u164	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! At the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, at its meeting on December 22, 2010, considered observations and suggestions from subjects of the right of legislative initiative to the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, adopted as a result of the first reading, on the basis of October 6, 2010. [[on the provision of a secret ballot]] [[Registration number 2518]] A comparative table for a bill containing 13 amendments and proposals from four Ukrainian national deputies has been prepared by the Committee for Second Reading. As a result of the review of amendments and proposals at the meeting of the Committee, 10 of them were taken into account, 2 were taken into account on an editorial basis, and 1 was rejected. With the amendment of Deputy Carmazin, it is of such significance that the bill is rejected. The committee couldn't count it, because in the first reading, the law was passed by 256 people's deputies. By the vote of all those present at the meeting of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Committee also made a decision: not to include in the comparative table the amendments submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, also by Deputy Carmazin, there were two amendments, since they do not correspond to part of the first article of Rule 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made separate remarks to the bill and considers that the second reading of the bill would be an appropriate rejection. However, the Committee believes that this bill should be adopted and recommended by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, to amend some of the Ukrainian laws as a result of the second reading of the second reading to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. [[on the provision of a secret ballot]] So I want to say that the changes are made to two laws: this is the Elections Act, the Local Elections Act, and the Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies Act. So the amendments that were made were more of an editorial character, considering that the Elections Act, the local elections, is already in the new edition. Thus, the amendments themselves simply change the numbering of the articles, in view of the fact that, well, the new law is being drafted. If there was, let's say, an article was 60, then in the new law that we've already run the election, this article is, of course, 65th. Such amendments have been made. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u165	Thank you. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich, do you not insist on yours? You insist. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I, indeed, thank you for the other amendments, and in one I have written down that it is inappropriate to make changes to the bill if the new standards cannot be implemented in practice. What did I mean by that? I meant that it was unreasonable and impossible to implement the bans imposed on voters to make their will known in the elections. Setting up a ban on the use of a mobile phone, a photo, a video camera that can be used to film in a secret ballot box is declarative, because it is unclear how it will be implemented and how it will be prohibited. In addition to everything else we've seen and seen now how it's being applied. In particular, the elections in the Gulf of Odessa were falsified, the prosecution filed a criminal case, and with the help of the courts and the government, everything is done to ensure that even the case is not investigated. Hence, all laws today can be declarative. Here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u167	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. But you are here on spaghetti: with one amendment, you propose to repeal the law at all, and with other amendments you improve it. Yes, I'm voting on Karmazin's amendment to reject the bill. [[13:19:38]] For-7. Everything else is accounted for. So I'm voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt a law in second reading and in general. The Chief Legal Office supports Karmazin, that the bill is to be rejected. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:20:09]] Z-85 Thus, the Supreme Council supported Carmazin, the law was rejected because he did not get the necessary number of votes. The project is being considered to amend the Ukrainian Amnesty Act in Ukraine. [[Registration number 4179]] [[new editor]] Another reading. The committee reports to Olijnik Vladimir Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u168	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 10 February 2010 a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Application of Amnesty in Ukraine, which was passed by 248 people's deputies. The enormous number of citizens who have come to the committee since the adoption by Parliament of Ukraine of the last Amnesty Act 2008 has been a major impetus to the drafting of the bill. Citizens are outraged at the fact that perpetrators of crimes are exempt from criminal liability at the stage of pretrial investigation. Equally resonant was the release from criminal punishment as a result of the amnesty of persons found guilty of a gas explosion in the city of Dnipropetrovsk, when several dozen people were killed and injured. Perhaps based on the principle of humanism, this treatment of perpetrators of crime is justified by the State. But there is still a legal nature to such concepts as the principle of legality and the principle of responsibility for a crime, for amnesty does not, in essence, rehabilitate a citizen. And so, based on the general regulations governing the Amnesty Institute and the basic principles of criminal law, the law requires conceptual improvement and compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine. Although I'd like to remind you of the major novelties of the project. This is, first, a ban on the use of amnesty at the stage of knowledge, of pretrial investigation, and also when a criminal case is in the course of a court, but not considered last. The other one. An extension of the number of convicted persons to whom amnesty cannot be applied at all. First of all, to convicts for committing deliberate serious or particularly serious crimes, who have committed less than two thirds of the prescribed sentences, those convicted for crimes of average gravity, who have suffered less than half of the prescribed sentences, as well as those who have committed any degree of gravity that has resulted in the death of two or more persons. The change in the order of release of convicted persons from the imposition of an additional penalty is an exemption from additional punishment, except for the confiscation of property, may only take place if, on the date of recruitment, the Amnesty Law did not give effect to the court's judgment in part of the additional penalty. And exemption from punishment in the form of a fine may be only if a person is sentenced to such punishment after the Amnesty Law has been enacted. Amendments 54 were made and 24, 30 were rejected. In most cases the amendments were rejected as being contrary to article 116. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. His acceptance will promote the establishment, indeed, of humane principles in society and make it impossible to apply amnesty to those condemned for committing serious or serious crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u169	Finish up. That's how we get the repairs. Please, 3rd Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed to exclude the preamble to the law, which said "to amend the Amnesty Act" and so on. Since it's necessary to enact a new law and in the Final Positions to recognize that they've lost their validity since this law came into force, this and the other eight original amnesty laws that are still valid. Because they were simply forgotten to be declared invalid by law. Today, however, there are 119 original laws that have lost their validity or actually do not work, except those that have made changes but that are not recognized as valid by the established law. Because of this, when I go to the committee, I want to say that there can't be a situation like this, we're squandering the legal field instead of clearing it. So let's ever, if you've touched the law, do whatever it takes to clear this legal field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u171	The position of the committee is to reject such an amendment because we are amending the Amnesty Act 1996.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u172	It puts Karmazin’s 3rd amendment to the vote. Don't insist. On the 4th, don't you insist? Don't insist. On the 7th? Please, the 7th Amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u173	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I call your attention to this. Paragraphs “A” and “B” of part one of article 2 suggest that the following should be inserted: “A”. “The full exemption of persons designated by the court from punishment or execution.” [[Amnesty Full]] Then man would understand and everyone in the world would understand, in the state, that it is complete amnesty. And "B." “Partial release of persons designated by the court from punishment or execution. ” [[partial amnesty]] These are the arguments that I consider to be groundless in the third column. The concept of “full and partial amnesty” is well worked out in many civilized countries, which they call themselves. I think we should learn that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u174	The committee is proposing to reject this amendment. Since the proposal does not bear any meaningful burden, the law divides such notions as "punishment" and "consequent punishment".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u175	Don't you insist? Yes, 8 revisions. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the first part of article 2 be supplemented by the following paragraph: “...full or partial exemption for the purpose of legalization or return to a country from abroad of illegally disbursed funds or funds for which taxes have not been paid at the proper time”. I understand that this proposal goes beyond the time limit that we had here with you in a few minutes after a reduced procedure without giving a word of opposition at all. But we're not now adopting an amnesty law for 2011, we're amending the Amnesty Law. That's exactly why I'm making this amendment that I'd like to vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u177	With all due respect for you, we cannot violate Article 116 of the Rules. Nine of your repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u178	Yuri Carmazin. I say, Adam Ivanovich, that in this case the Rules are a barrier to progress, and you understand that. And 116 articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u179	The main thing is that you're the engine of progress.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u180	In this case, article 116 of the Rules is a barrier to progress. I repeat. I propose that in the 9th amendment, article 4 be supplemented by a new paragraph: "a" part of one such meaning: to persons who have served less than two thirds of the sentence of the court of general punishment. ".. And then change the numbering of parts of the article. That's the whole point of my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u181	The committee suggests that this proposal should be rejected, since a well - founded, weighty, and meaningful effort is not to be applied to this proposal except to one that is a roadblock or a stop in the way of progress. That's why we're going to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u182	Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u183	Yes, I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u184	Yes. We're breaking up. Puts to the vote the 9th Amendment of Carmazin. [[13:29:24]] For -14 No correction supported. The 12th Amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u185	Yuri Carmazin. I'm proposing part "g" in the first article of article 4, and I'll remind you that article 4 refers to someone who can't be applied to an amnesty in such an editorial. "To persons convicted of committing a deliberate serious or particularly serious crime," removing, "except those referred to in paragraph "g" of this article, which took place less than two thirds of the sentence of the main sentence. And I'm sorry, but it's not solid of the committee to ask, write that the author should give any more reasons. First of all, it doesn't require that. And second of all, I'm arguing. And this is my position. Individuals who are convicted of committing a willful grave or particularly serious crime thus have to be completely different and freed. That's the position. Thank you. And please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u186	There are 12 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:30:51]] For-32 Not supported. 13th Amendment, Carmazin. 13th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u187	The 13th amendment is rejected, by the way, with the same wording. Amnesty cannot be applied to. Paragraph “E” of part 1 of article 4 suggests that the following wording should be added: “To persons convicted of a crime of moderate gravity” by deleting the words “except those mentioned in paragraph “D” of this article, which took place less than half of the sentence of the main sentence”. I mean, it's about people who died. This is a very serious responsibility. And when we talk about applying amnesty and in cases where people have died, in these cases we need to be extremely, very careful. As a result, I warn you not to take such steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u188	But don't you insist on fixing it? 13 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:32:16]] For-39 Not supported. Yes, Karmazin's 19th correction. Yuri Anatolyevich, will you rest?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u189	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your concern, your gratitude. You'd better vote for my amendments. It'll be a better concern.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u190	It's still not enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u191	I propose to delete part of the first article 5: “The Acts of the Amnesty Law extends to crimes committed to the day of its taking effect, including, and does not extend to crimes that persist or continue if they are completed, suspended or interrupted after the adoption of the Amnesty Law.” And part two: "In exceptional cases, with the aim of halting social and dangerous group manifestations, the validity of amnesty may be extended to an action made until a certain date after the amnesty has been declared, provided that the requirements provided for in the Amnesty Act are fulfilled by a mandatory date, the so-called amnesty, are considered to be part of the first one. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u192	19 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. The committee’s opinion is presented in a comparative table. We all know how to read. [[13:33:43]] For 20 Not supported. 22 Carmazin’s Offer
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u193	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I propose that we delete sections 1, 2 of Article 6. “The persons subject to the Amnesty Act may be released from both the basic and the additional penalties imposed by the court, except for confiscation of property, if, on the date of recruitment, the court’s sentence, in part of the additional penalties, has not been carried out. Persons convicted of committing a crime shall not be exempt from payment of a fine in the form of a basic or additional fine to be imposed by the Amnesty Act. And amnesty does not absolve the obligation to compensate for a crime that has been brought upon the guilty person by a judgment or a judgment of a court.” Honorable national MPs, and the fact that we are today freeing ourselves from harm gives birth to thousands of citizens who protest what we care about, do not care about the victims.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u194	Do you insist on voting? You insist. The amendment shall be voted on. [[13:35:15]] For-34 Your brothers didn't support you. 28 Carthage’s Amendment
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u195	Amendment 28 refers to article 9. Article 9 provides for those convicted of committing crimes to be released. I propose a part of the first article 9 to read: “The persons who are exempt from the Amnesty Act or who continue to be punished shall be released no later than two months after the publication of the Amnesty Law.” It's now a valid editorial that's been proposed for three months. Because of this, I suggest we cut the deadline for a month. It's humane. I don't understand why the committee won't support it. And without the motivation that he's obliged to do, he just wrote, "refused." This is an improper exercise of the obligations laid down in the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u196	28 shall vote on the amendment. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:36:42]] For-35 Not supported. 30 amendments to Karmazin shall not be put to the vote. [[116 Article of the Rules]] 31st Amendment of Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u197	What about the 30th?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u198	The 30th doesn't match 116. Please, 31st.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u199	No.1 Correction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, of course, you are wrong about the 116th article of the Rules. Well, it's okay. 31 The amendment refers to chapter two, “The Final Position”, which proposes to supplement the new part of two such provisions: “Recognizance of those who have become invalid from the moment the law becomes effective: The Ukrainian Law of 26. 06. 97 “On Amnesty for the First Anniversary of the Constitution of Ukraine”, the Ukrainian Act of 21.11.96 “On Amnesty for Persons Who Participated in Mass Action. The Amnesty Law of 24.07.1998, Law of 16.07. 1999 on Amnesty, the Amnesty Act of 11.07.2003, the Amnesty Act of 11.05.2000, and a number of other laws that I am listing. This needs to be done to clean up the legal field.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u200	Well, the committee didn't agree to that, and they're offering to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u201	Yes, please, 31 votes in favour. [[13:38:20]] For-33 Your opinion is correct, Yuri Anatoliyovich, and she received 33 supporters on your offer. So 33rd, 34th, 35th, 36th, 37th, 38th, 39th. The 39th will not be considered, for 116 articles of the Rules. 40 adjustments to Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u202	Yuri Carmazin. Honorable national MPs, what Adam Ivanovich now said was simply a violation of the article of the Rules, is the lives of people. Because I suggested that the court could release the convicted person from trial only if he had previously compensated for the damage or removed the damage. Thus, all the time the Supreme Council does not act in the interests of most people. My amendment 40 refers to the additions to article 85, where I propose that it be supplemented by a part of the second sentence: “Freedom from punishment or punishment on the basis of the Amnesty Act or the act of pardon is possible only if the defendant or the convicted person has fully compensated the damage suffered or removed the damage suffered.” I think we're being thanked by all the people who are waiting today when they're being compensated.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u203	The 40th Amendment of Carmazin is a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:40:13]] For-31 Not supported. Amendment 44 of Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u204	I sincerely thank all the deputies who have supported the principle that we must pay back today, that not only punishment is important or the collection of political accounts, as was the case yesterday, when a lawless investigator calls on the Prime Minister to listen to the pension legislation instead of the Prime Minister for whom he voted. The former Prime Minister, for whom 14 million people voted, spoke at parliamentary hearings, illiterate, I repeat, the investigator, who repeated the same questions, decided that there was no need to engage in politics, political activity. That's why I'm proposing to rule out section 4 of the first article 6: As a result of an amnesty act, if it removes the application of penalties for acts committed also in connection with the error of individuals. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u205	The 44th amendment shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u206	Decline offers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u207	[[13:41:38]] For-49 Your support is growing, Yuri Anatolyevich. 46 revisions. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u208	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Let's remember that we are adopting a serious law on the application of amnesty, not a simple law on amnesty in that year. That's why he's got theoretical approaches, and so excluding Carmazin's amendments on the grounds that they don't go into someone's vision, or they don't fit in in the 116th article of the Rules, instead it fits in. What's going on in the country today is totally inconvenient. As a result, I propose a part of the second article of article 6 as follows: “If the circumstances set out in paragraphs 1, 2 of this article appear at the stage of the proceedings, the court shall bring the matter to a conclusion and shall rule on acquittal.” I think that these justifiable judgments will be decided on the opposition that is being persecuted today. Instead, those who steal entire factories, whole branches, and shelves welcome to the state today. Please support my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u209	46 amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u210	Offer: Decline. [[13:43:07]] For-50 Fifty is not amended, 50 votes were received by Yuri Anatoliyovich, but it was amended by more than 50. Yes, Karmazin's 47th amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u211	Adam Ivanovich, thank you for your support. Thanks to the people's deputies for their support. I think the basic law should be thorough, of course, prepared, and so does our legal authorities. I would ask you, I would ask you to delete part five of article six: “The closure of the case on the grounds set out in paragraph 4 of this article is not permitted if the accused denies it. In this case, implementation continues in the normal order." Because of this, I would ask the honourable national deputies to support this amendment to the basic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u212	Karmazin’s 47th amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u213	Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u214	I'd like to make a statement. [[13:44:24]] For-39 And the 49th Amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u215	The amendment provides for: part of the seventh article 6 to be read: “If, in the course of the examination of the judicial or judicial investigation, one section of this article, which excludes the introduction in a criminal case of a person involved in the conduct of an administrative offence, the body of inquiry, the investigator, the prosecutor, the court or the judge shall be obliged to refer the relevant material to the body or to the official responsible for handling such administrative offences, excluding the number six. I don't understand why this amendment isn't counted. She doesn't have any political involvement. You've done everything you want so far. You want the opposition not to be heard, do not be heard. But here we have to count. This is a theoretical position for me as an expert and a large group of scientists. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u216	Yes, there are 49 amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u217	Adam Ivanovich, literally a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u218	Excuse me, take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u219	I would ask our colleague Carmazin not to be offended, but the position of the committee, in fact, is almost everywhere: the proposal is not meaningful. Meaningful exertion, and in this part it completely repeats the text adopted in the first reading. In fact, the changes are made to part six of the article. Well, how can we support her? Therefore, the proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u220	Yes, 49 is voting, please be sure. [[13:46:26]] For-39 The amendment received 39 votes in favour. All amendments are counted or do not correspond to 116 articles. That's why we have reasons. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're welcome. 51st doesn't answer 116. I put to the vote the proposal of the second-reading committee and the whole bill under number 4179 on amendments to the Ukrainian Amnesty Act "On Application in Ukraine". Please vote. [[13:47:20]] For 309 The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure and Criminal Codes of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on limited condemnation]] [[Registration number 4521]] Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u221	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In October of last year, we adopted the first reading of the amendments to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code. [[on limited condemnation]] Let me briefly remind you of the content of those changes. It was about the adoption in 2001 of Ukraine's new Criminal Code, where, apart from convicted and indecisive persons, the concept of "limited condemnation" was introduced. So unlike "unsullied" "limited convicts" are criminally responsible for crimes. But in article 417 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the introduction of non-convictional and limitedly convicted persons was done in the same way. That is to say, the indictment was not based on the case; rather, it was the decision of the investigating judge to close the criminal case. Instead, article 20, I repeat, of the new Criminal Code of Ukraine provides for a position that limitedly convicted persons are subject to criminal liability. In fact, 314 votes were paid for the bill by all the factions of Parliament. The second read came with 7 amendments, of which 6 were counted, one was rejected. And the committee is asking for the approval of the law as a whole. The legal authorities have no comments on the bill and they also fully support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, the amendments are taken into account, except for one, Yuri Karmazin the 4th. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u223	Yuri Carmazin. I thank the committee for the tolerant approach, they've considered all the amendments, except for one. And Mr. Adam Ivanovich, taking this opportunity, I would like to ask you to pay attention to the national MPs, some of whom are governed only by their right hand, not by the known right hand of my very respected colleague, Mr. Chechov, rather than by the content of the law. Because of the previous law, the observations were made by the legal administration, which clearly stated: “that narrowed down the definition of amnesty. ” It's narrow. I explain it to those who don't, you know? And here's what we voted for. And this law will now work. And this law, which has now been reported, I support and believe that it should be adopted, regardless of the fact that Karmazin's amendment has been rejected. Well, these are theoretical disputes, they can always be among lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u224	Yes, Yuri Anatolyevich has improved; he does not want us to vote on his amendment. So I'm voting on the proposal for a profile committee to adopt in the second reading and in the whole Act amending the Criminal Procedures and Criminal Codes of Ukraine. [[on limited condemnation]] [[Registration number 4521]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:51:08]] For-136 The law is not adopted. Declined. If Yuri Anatolyovich hadn't spoken, it might have been different. The draft Law amending certain legislative acts is under consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please, Karmazin's lineup, then Chechtev. Yes, Chechtov, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u225	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u226	Yuri Anatolyevich, well, I deeply respect you as the most famous opposing lawyer. But I understand you can be critical there, like most of us. Well, why are you stressing the intellectual damage to our Ukraine and to BUYT that they don't think anything at all when they don't vote for you. They don't give a shit in there. Well, do your job with them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Explain, maybe they're really propane out there. And if you can't do it, you ask us, we have lawyers, and we'll get involved. Do the work among your own. They just don't understand you. You speak different languages. But I'm defending, I think that there are quite a few competent people there, both in the U.K.U. and in our Ukraine, so you're proud of yourselves, you'll reconsider your position. You just don't understand your environment. You're going the wrong way. You're going to a standstill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u227	Thank you. The draft Law on Amendments to Some is under consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's look at the law, then. Give Carmazin to me, or I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u228	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I've taken a line on Martiniuk Adam Ivanovich's words, but I'd like to answer the person who's giving everybody an evaluation right now and trying to move the wrong state. You and I have considered the President's 10th veto today. What? Because you're waving like that with your right hand. So what's the problem with intelligence? Apparently, there are problems in the ruling party and in the ruling coalition. You've allowed us to continue to steal and stretch the Herson Combin factory today. Today, you have allowed those in your faction to do so with impunity. And you welcome it. I'll, you know, deal with those who support me or support me in opposition. And you figure out where the state's going. You're already pushing it into a deep gap. Here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u229	Yes, in this regard, I continue for 15 minutes in the morning. Please consider the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on road accidents and insurance payments. Head of the subcommittee Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich. [[Registration number 4652-d]] Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, you and I have considered this bill once before, and we had a problem with 166 articles of the Rules. You can see now that the committee has taken our comments into account. So if there's no objection, let's vote on the proposals made by the committee for the final clauses in general. No objections? I'm voting for acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u230	Thank you. And I won't say a word, but I want to welcome everyone with a wonderful victory, the brilliant victory of the Shakhtar football team. There's a prospect in Ukrainian football. And this bill is also designed to address the issues of those who will come to us. Therefore, the request to vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u231	Yuri Volodymyrovich, he's primarily concerned with you. And whoever comes, it's gonna be a long time. I am voting on the proposal of a committee on the adoption of a bill under number 4652-d, amending some Ukrainian legislation on road accidents and insurance payments, taking into account the committee's proposal on paragraph 5 of the bill's final provisions. Please vote. [[13:55:47]] For 329 The law is passed. A draft law on the addition to article 164 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the abolition of responsibility for the conduct of business with the application of the principle of silent consent, Moisik Volodymir Romanović, is under consideration. [[Registration number 6339]] Vladimir Romanovich, if you don't mind, I'll say two words for you. It's all accounted for. Both the committee and the legal authorities are offering support. Please vote on adoption as a whole as a law, on the addition to article 164 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[Registration number 6339]] Please be supportive. [[13:56:47]] For 305 The law is passed. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the issuance of publications on public procurement terms, Head of the Yavorovski Volodymyr Committee, is under consideration. [[Registration number 6554]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u232	Good afternoon, Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The essence of this law, in a few words, is to be understood. It's about a government order being released, let's say it's a socially important book. It's usually released in order to then break up in libraries, and actually it doesn't go to market. The point is that after a government order has been executed, books have been fully transferred to libraries to be made available to the publisher, who, in fact, issues this book on a government order, to allow him to make an additional circulation after that so that we can increase the normal number of books per capita. I emphasize that this is a bill of government, I repeat, it's a bill of government. And for the third time, I repeat, this is a government bill. In fact, almost all the adjustments are taken into account. The delay was one of the only questions about the amendment of the government order to this bill, but it was usually necessary to amend the State Procurement Act, because it was more important than that. It's done, it's all brought here. Here's the only thing that's possible if Carmazin. Not yet counted, partially accounted for. Because of this, I'm asking my colleague Carmazin, we've partly counted, Mr. Yuri. I think that'll satisfy you? () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u233	Yes, respectable colleagues, apart from the correction of Carmazin, which can be satisfied, are an important point made by the Legal Authority. And so, I'm asking the session room to identify itself. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u234	It's in here. Wait, we're not there by twelve yet. In this bill, as Vladimir Yavorowski said, they amended other laws that were not provided for in the first reading. Thus, article 116 of the Rules is violated. Volodymyr Alexanderovich, come on, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u235	Adam Ivanovich, but this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u236	Let's not make any changes to other laws, and we'll adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u237	And then he won't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u238	Don't make me come back. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u239	Adam Ivanovich, he will not work then.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u240	I'm sorry, I don't have the right to put him to a vote if you don't take off what goes against 116 articles of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u241	Adam Ivanovich, let me tell you, this is not a committee, not a Supreme Council, it's actually a technical mistake for the Cabinet of Ministers to submit it in the first reading. And I see no great sin here, in that the Supreme Council has corrected this technical error of the Cabinet of Ministers. There is the Plaxyuk's well-being, with them all agreed, a representative of our government, head of the Radio Committee. Do whatever you want, I've done all this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u242	Plaxyuk is good, but he's not the subject of the legislative initiative. The Cabinet of Ministers is the subject of the legislative initiative, and there are 116 articles. I'm going to the session room. Who is responsible for considering the bill, despite the observation of the legal authorities on article 116? I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:00:30]] For 287 Now the 4 or 14 amendments that Karmazin has? The 12th Amendment of Carmazin, let's define and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u243	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the very moment that the House voted. You see, Mr. Michael, I am addressing my colleague Chechtov, who voted 116 amendments just when she was a brake. My amendment is about not violating copyright. As a result, after the execution of a government order, the contractor has the right to produce, at his own expense, the conditions laid down in the author's contract, an additional auction issued on the basis of a government contract, to fill the book market and meet the production needs, since the publication of these books should be made on the basis of a commercial agreement with the author, and the participation of the State and the additional regulation of the law are not necessary here. As a result, I ask you to delete the addition of article 5 of the Law on State Support for the Book - Making Work in Ukraine as a new part of this content, which I have just pointed out because there is doubt. You can see it yourself, Mr. Vladimir, as an author, a very fruitful author and talented. That's my legal amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u244	I'm very grateful for the compliment, but I'm still going to be impenetrable in this, because in the first version it was about the Cabinet of Ministers, literally, even writing down the names of books to be published -- that's ridiculous. We've translated this into a different plane about what the Cabinet of Ministers is developing, as it were, a sublegal act or a decision of its own, which is the work of the mechanism and everything. But then there is absolute freedom for bookkeepers and so forth, that is, we do not bind people. That's the first one. And secondly, yes, Yuri, but secondly, the author, of course, needs to be paid, but that's another piece of legislation, the copyright. This is the responsibility of publishing, which will then continue. And of course it pays him. Because, Mr. Yuri, well, you don't have to get in here right now and that's all we can do is just spoil the second reading, and you don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u245	Don't insist. Yeah, we're going to vote for adoption in the second reading as a whole, but I'm stressing that the Chief Legal Office is proposing to reject the bill as one that doesn't answer, well, so on and so forth. The proposal for a second-reading committee and the whole bill under number 6554 to amend certain laws of Ukraine to improve the issuance of publications on public procurement terms is put to the vote. Please vote. No, no, there'll be even more positive right now. [[14:03:24]] For 340. The law is passed. The draft Law on Introduction is under consideration. Once again, at the request of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, I continued our meeting for 15 minutes. A draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Mining Act is under consideration. [[Registration number 4314]] Volinec Mikhailo Yakovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u246	Dear colleagues! During the last two years, you and I have been very active in the mining industry and have developed and adopted all the factions of the Mining Act. After that, we made a number of necessary and positive changes to this law, because some of the points were not taken into account because that law was designed to amend other laws so that all the positions and articles of the Mining Work Act would work. But there was another point where workers working in mines came from underground mining mines other than iron, except coal, other than uranium and so forth. And so the author of the Kravchenko bill predicted that this list of workers working in other mines would be completed. For example, from the extraction of sulfur, gold, and the like. That is, there are categories of people who have worked in mines that do not exist in Ukraine today, but these people have lost their health in such enterprises, and it would be fair to support the Kravchenko People’s Law in order to ensure that people who have lost their health in production who have spent their entire lives working for the state to benefit from the same benefits as other workers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u247	Yes. Dear colleagues, all proposals are taken into account. I put to the vote a proposal for adoption as a whole as a law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Mining Act. [[on the extension of the Law also to coal miners and wasteland]] [[Registration number 4314]] Please vote. [[14:06:24]] For-123 Not supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions. Region Party – 40, BUT – 73, “Our Ukraine” – 16, Communists – 25, reforms – 2, People's Party – no, non-fractional – 3. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we still have two bills left for the second reading, and each of them violates article 116 of the Rules. So first, 6379. There were changes that were not included in the first reading. So please, I'm asking the committee, you write that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u248	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u249	You write here that for our belief, it shouldn't be a hindrance to adopting effective and so forth. Bills. I'm not saying the bill is ineffective, but there are 116 articles. What's more, it's customs, tariffs, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. And when we first read one, and then we add the other, we go very far. I ask the committee to consider 116 articles and we will consider it next week. 2260. “The text of the bill does not meet the requirements of Article 116 of the Rules” - writes the Chief Legal Officer. The bill can be adopted in a second reading, taking into account the comments made by the Chief Legal Authority. And the first observation of the General Legal Office states: The bill is prepared for a second reading in violation of article 116. I'm taking it off the table. Please, committee, prepare. Committee, get ready. Mikhail Vasilovich, I will not go in violation of article 116. Yes, I repeat. Please take off what was not on the first reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, it's spilling? Then make a copy of the bill if it breaks, or write it so that it does not break. Yes, please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u250	Adam Ivanovich, well, before that, we put the question to the vote somewhere for three, the same thing when we stumbled over 116 articles of the Rules. And the Hall supported, practically, the law by three hundred votes to consider. Let us then be consistent, and let us put these two laws to the vote as well. If we agree, we'll look at it, no, it's not. Yeah. Well, it's logical and consistent, and it's also possible: we voted before, and this is, as a matter of fact, so to speak, or these two specifically we reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-02-17-m0.u251	Mikhail Vasilovich, you think perfectly logically, but give me the answer to a question, one thing when I went to the session hall and asked: close your eyes on 116 articles when it comes to printing books, and quite another thing when it comes to government regulation of the production and circulation of alcohol, brandy and fruity, alcoholic beverages and so on and so forth. Do you see the difference? I think you see. So please, the 116 - article committee. The morning session is closed. Starting work at 4 p.m. Please.
