ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:01:44]] In the session hall, there are 386 cards of the National Deputies of the Supreme Council. I declare the evening session open. Ladies and gentlemen, at the evening session, we're going to consider the bills that were included in the agenda today at the morning session, and those bills that are decided by the relevant committees. The question is: The draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the alienation of property of economic operators. [[Registration number 8441]] Would there be no objection to consideration of the reduced procedure? I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. [[16:02:55]] For 206 Supported. Reported the head of the State Property Fund, Rybchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich. Prepare for the Bondar Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Your view is on the proposal for a bill amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on the alienation of property of economic operators developed by the State Property Fund. To date, the Ukrainian Economic Code and other legal acts grant the right to state-owned monetary enterprises to alienate property belonging to the core funds only by prior consent of the authority to which they belong. However, the above-mentioned acts of law governing the alienation of such property are of a general nature, resulting in the uncontrolled alienation of the property and, as a result, the loss by the State of material and financial resources. In view of the above and taking into account the experience gained, the Fund is proposing a more perfect procedure for selling immovable property to state enterprises. We want it to be sold according to the general principle of the sale of state property, as privatization goes on. Thus, if our proposed changes to the draft law are accepted, it will strengthen state control over the alienation of state-owned economic operators, ensure competitive principles for the sale of such assets, and increase the availability of money to the State budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u3	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich is the head of the Economic Policy Committee subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Economic Policy Committee has considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on the procedure for the alienation of state property and proposes that it be accepted as a basis. There are two positive points I want to stress in this bill. For a long time, the question was that public enterprises were implementing their share of the money they were paying for, not through transparent corruption procedures — at a low cost. It is now proposed that the State Property Fund be involved in this process, which under general privatisation procedures will sell this property more transparently, because there are still certain procedures for publishing an ad, certain terms and involving the organizers of the trade. So it's going to be a procedure that's going to be more transparent. The second positive point is to stimulate trade operators and the State Property Fund to sell such items more expensive because there is a rule that the costs derived from the sale of immovable property by calculating the balance sheet value of such assets, unless otherwise established by law, are included in the general fund of the State Budget of Ukraine. To this end, 100 percent of the money went to the company’s utility costs, and they were not interested in selling the property as much as possible. Now these tasks are going to be put on the holding fund, the ministries that are responsible for this, and they're going to be interested in getting the funds into the state budget, because there are going to be some tasks. So I think this bill is positive, it's worth supporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u5	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. If you would like to participate in the discussion, please sign up. Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u6	Please pass the word to Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u7	Alexander Pecklusenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! Both the presentation of the rapporteur and the representative of the Committee show solidarity in the decision and approach. That is, what this bill is all about. Not to complicate the procedure, but to make it transparent, to make it effective so that money can be put into the budget at the existing market value. Therefore, I think that this bill should not give rise to confusion; it can clearly be supported. The only thing that needs to be done is that the corruption component doesn't come out of the Hosmein Foundation in any way. Therefore, please consider all mechanisms to meet the challenges that the President has expressed in the anti-corruption fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u9	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u10	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The MP's Group on Reforms for the Future has also concluded that this bill is useful in general for the state, and it takes away a number of small corruption schemes. And we have, just like the previous speaker, a warning just so that those petty corruption schemes don't fall under a system of big corruption. But one way or another, fighting corruption at the State Property Fund is obviously necessary for certain organs and structures that are supposed to do this, but that doesn't mean that we have a knife to cut, ban a knife, or ban a fork because it can be pierced. That's why we think we need to support this bill. We're saying, more generally, because the project is simple and short, it has two conceptual solutions, two sentences, one of which defines the holding fund's participation as the organizer of these trades, that it takes it away from the enterprises themselves, and the other is the fact that if the other is not defined by law, the money comes from the sale to the general fund of the state budget, not the special fund, and in principle it could be accepted as a whole. Only, the only thing that could be a warning about this nuance is a general fund or a special fund. It would be a good thing, unfortunately, that this is a reduced procedure, you can't ask the question of how much benefit there is in this very clear wording to the general fund. But in general, the bill needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u11	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense"
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u12	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, in general, I would be pleased with this bill if it wasn't for one "but." When you open a comparative table that changes: 75 of the Master Code, 77, 141. When you read a draft law, only two articles are included. So it's only 75 and 77. Without amending the 141, which is correctly recorded in the table, you cannot accept this bill, otherwise we will enter the Rules, Adam Ivanovich, you understand, yes. That is why I will advise Prime Minister Azarov, to whom today the people have been given a pension certificate, to read the documents he signs, to read. And I would ask you to accept in this regard today the protocol that these changes that are in the table and are also an integral part that I see signed by the head of the Holding Fund Rybchenko, it says here that Rybchenko has agreed on a comparative table. If I've agreed on a comparative table, it means and obviously, in the first part, which is signed by Azar, but without Rybchenk's signature, it's obvious that changes should also be made. The point is that there are features of the legal regime of government property in the field of farming. The point is that the alienation of state property, which belongs to the core funds, unless otherwise established by law, is carried out in a manner determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and only on competitive grounds. So we're excluding the words "household" that were in the previous edition. As a result, I would like to support this bill in the first reading but definitely. [[Only in the first, of course.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u13	Yeah, sorry, there's no 141 in the comparative table. Article 75, article 77, article 7.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u14	Look down there. You see.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u15	Question completed. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the alienation of property of economic operators. Please vote. Registration number 8441. [[16:13:15]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, will we not accept as law as a whole? Is there a denial? In view of the fact that we have little time left and the law is small, let us vote on a reduction in the deadline for preparation for second reading. Please vote. [[16:13:59]] For 261 A decision has been made. Preparation deadlines for second reading are reduced to one week. We are considering the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for the illicit circulation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors, toxic or potent substances or toxic or powerful drugs and drugs. Registration number 8367. Can we consider a simplified procedure? I'm putting this motion to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:14:54]] For 224 Offer supported. Reported by Deputy Minister of Interior Sergey Petrovich Chernych. From the Shemchuk Committee to prepare. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u16	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, the draft law drafted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the strengthening of responsibility for the illicit circulation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors, toxic or potent substances or toxic or powerful drugs and drugs is proposed. The need to develop the aforementioned draft of the Ukrainian Law, caused by a steady trend towards increasing the level of drug abuse in Ukraine, and further exacerbating the problems associated with illicit drug, psychotropic substances, and precursors, toxic or potent substances, or toxic or powerful drugs, and drugs. As well as the need to protect public health and the interests of citizens from their negative influence. The bill proposes to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Offences. Especially in the area of drug trafficking, psychotropic substances, and so on. The draft law is agreed upon without notice with all interested ministries. The project is consistent with the Constitution and is in line with all existing legislation. The adoption and implementation of the act will not require additional costs from the state budget. The main scientific and expert office has a number of comments to the bill. But the Committee on Law Enforcement suggests that the draft law be adopted in the first reading. The adoption of the bill will enhance the effectiveness of countering crime in the area of illicit drug trafficking, psychotropic substances, precursors, toxic and powerful drugs and drugs. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u17	Thank you. Sit down, Sergey Petrovich. Head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Viktor Viktorovich Shemchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on Strengthening Responsibility for the Illicit Circumstances, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors or Poisoning or Strong Doctors, Drugs. The bill is designed to effectively combat crime in the area of illicit drug and drug trafficking, by increasing accountability. The bill provides for increased sanctions for individual administrative offences and crimes in the field of drug trafficking, psychotropic substances, their analogues and precursors. In particular, it is proposed to amend articles 44, 44 with the '1' badge, 106 with the '1' badge, 188 with the Ukrainian Codex on Admin. offences and articles 306, 307, 320-322 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. At the same time, it is suggested that criminal responsibility be established for the use of funds derived from illicit circulation of toxic or powerful substances or toxic or powerful drugs. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council has made a number of substantive observations on individual positions and believes that the bill requires substantial conceptual elaboration. In view of this, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommends that the draft law be reopened to the subject of the legislative initiative in the first reading. During the Committee’s preliminary consideration, the committee also expressed a number of specific provisions that the National Deputies felt should be corrected in preparing for the second reading. On the basis of the statement, taking into account the relevance of the problem of countering illicit drug trafficking, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a decision on the basis of the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u19	Thank you, Victor Victorovich. Please sign up for the performance. Yes, please, Mr. Cranowil Taras, the Reform Group for the Future. The next one is Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the national deputies of Ukraine! The parliamentary group "For the Future Reforms" on this bill has been defined positively. We support its adoption in the first reading, but we still want to emphasise that, unfortunately, often a lot of bills coming from the Cabinet of Ministers have enough gangs. There are also warnings in this bill. They're obviously not serious enough to reject the bill, and in preparing for the second reading, at least they can be smoothed if they're not completely eliminated. But I would like to pay attention to them once again by stressing that we will be voting for the bill in the first reading, and asking the Supreme Council to support it. But with regard to these observations. First of all, in this bill we continue to make some kind of blurring between administrative misconduct and criminal crimes, including part of the responsibility. Once again, we reintroduce a situation where administrative responsibility may exceed criminal responsibility for similar crimes, which obviously should not be. The other one. Questions arise, questions arise about the formulation of responsibility for the use of funds derived from illicit drug traffic. Obviously, however, the main emphasis in the bill would have to be, and accordingly, the focus of the law enforcement authorities in order to prevent the circulation itself. It's already the responsibility for the illegal circulation, it's already a little bit of a long way to go, and I think it doesn't make any sense either. Although this standard can be maintained. That's the last of it. Whether this law should be incorporated, and we feel that it is wise to remove medical, specifically medical, and medical devices. It's not about drug addicts, it's about doctors. What powerful medical devices are. Validol, strong, not strong. Nitroglycerin is probably strong. What Is Poisonous? Any medication can be considered toxic. Clearly, then, those points should be deleted in the second reading. The rest must be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u21	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u22	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I definitely disagree with the conclusion of the scientific and expert office that this bill needs to be worked out. Him, we need to work on him. For this there is a second reading. And you know, when this conclusion is that in law enforcement, proposals for increased responsibility in the form of administrative sequestrations should primarily have serious scientific justification. Keep going. There is no such justification in the Explanatory Note to the Project. Any appropriate arguments regarding the need to increase administrative responsibility for these violations are missing. I have a question. What further evidence is needed that circulation or drug trafficking in the interior of Ukraine has led to terrible cases? To a terrible situation? Ukraine’s drug use is ongoing. And the explanatory note states that if there were 141 000 drug users in 2005 there were nearly 160,000 people on medical bills. What's not enough? Or is it that we are in a vacuum and we do not know what is wrong with families with children who are drug addicts? Maybe I'll say something unpopular right now. But when it comes to administrative responsibility for drug trafficking, it's kind of weird, you know? What administrative responsibility?Oh, my God! But criminal responsibility must be the most severe! By chance, no one spreads drugs. It's naive to accept that. This is a criminal business, one of the three most profitable businesses in the world, which is an administrative, criminal responsibility. But respectable subjects of the legislative initiative need to be identified here and what are psychotropic substances. Please tell me, when it is not possible to buy a marganic in pharmacies in the form of what might be used by drug addicts, this is obviously necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u23	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u24	Then the subject of the legislative initiative should be mentioned: Margantovka, which is still going, which cannot be found in pharmacies. You don't have to come to stupidity, so common sense should be present here. But this bill needs to be voted on as a basis. That's what drug addicts, drug-related relatives, drug-addict neighbors are calling for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u25	And everyone else. Karmazin Yuri. After him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u26	Yuri Carmazin. Honorable National MPs, the bill that is being proposed, are twice as impressive. First of all, it's a good name, which means we have to take it. It's different. There's a lot of comments. And third. I'm asking you very much, whenever you want to get into the Criminal Code, I ask you, well, you don't go down there with a hammer, take a screwdriver for a watch, even though you have to respond very carefully to these things. Because my soul is breaking up when I see that we are proposing to amend article 306 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and we are trying to resolve those issues that are already regulated by article 209 of the current Criminal Code, which is called "Legalization of the Laundering of the Proceeds of Crime." At the same time, I would like us to answer to society. We've been destroyed by cannabis production, we've already been banned from sowing poppy, so we're under the control of drug addicts, are we all afraid of them or what? We have a society to create for normal people, not conditions for drug addicts. And in order to protect myself from them, in this case, by sharing the strong opinions of the employees of the Chief Expert Office of Popovic and Materov, for whom I thank them, because they have given serious very important lectures here, I want to say that in the first reading of the law, the amendment of the Law on Administrative Violations can be supported. As far as criminal punishment is concerned, there must be more serious judicial statistics here to talk about inefficiency of terms, and more detailed justification. In general, I believe you can be accepted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u27	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u28	Adam Ivanovich, I was just addressing you, thank you. In any case, don't shorten the deadline, because an extremely serious bill, it's extremely difficult to clean it up here if we accept it in the first reading. I will personally vote for him to improve administrative responsibility, but I need him to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u29	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Shevchuk, BUT, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, in the speeches of the Ukrainian national MPs, the idea of the high relevance of the bill was unanimous. And I would like to expect that such a sensitive topic, which is becoming more and more disturbing today, will receive the answer in the bill that we are considering: what is actually going on, what are the trends and what measures will be able to correct this trend in the spread of drugs in Ukraine. Instead, we have a bill that can be called "fragmentary," we can call it "fragmental," we can use it to patch holes, we can bring up certain topics that absolutely nothing in the final analysis. The colleagues here have already talked about what is unclear, the logic of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, so we need to strengthen administrative responsibility. Why? Why did the previous administrative responsibility not work? Did Mali have the fines or were they wrongly appointed, or was the procedure wrongly prescribed? If we vote for this bill, is there a guarantee that administrative responsibility will now work for our cause, the fight against drugs? The other one. Article 306 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, here one of the authors of the Criminal Code said that if I were to make changes to the Criminal Code of Ukraine in the drug distribution section, I would like an offer from the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the involvement of minors in drug abuse, to the spread. Here, raise the bill to life's conclusion, and we will support you in this room. That's the last of it. Medical devices. You know, especially powerful medical devices. We already have a problem with you. The person who wants to be poisoned with straw is poisoned, and ordinary people have a problem anyway. So I think that this bill is government, unfortunately, it looks like sparrow cannons is nothing positive. And in the end, we can vote for him, one becomes more, one less, but unfortunately he won't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u31	Sergey Shevchuk, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u32	Dear colleagues! The fight against drug abuse, as we all understand, is extremely important. It should be done daily, systematically, carefully, and must be done by law enforcement authorities. In this bill, there is an attempt to make such a medical cranium -- to take responsibility from the law enforcement agencies to medicine. First of all, it is suggested that you think of sick patients who are not criminals, administer administrative punishment for failing to come to medical attention or being examined by the police. There is no such thing in any European state. The other one. It's an extension of the sphere to powerful drugs, to psychotropic drugs, to other drugs, to precursors. A Valerian is also a psychotropic tool! This is what the police will now control how many of these drugs are in the home pharmacy. It's an absurd bill, it can't be supported, and the police just have to crack down on those drug addicts, not make such bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u33	Question completed. I put to the vote the proposal of a profile committee on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the Strengthening of Responsibility for the Illegal Circumstances, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors, Toxic or Violent Substances or Toxic or Strong Medical Devices and Drugs. [[Bill number 8357]] Please vote. [[16:31:29]] For 283 Copy that. I'd like to ask the committee in preparing for the second reading to take into account the scientific expertise. Dear colleagues, we are considering: the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Violations of Information Protection Legislation with Limited Access, which is the property of the State. [[Registration number 8490]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:32:25]] For 212 Decision taken. Reported Deputy Head of the Security Service, Rodzko Volodymir Mihajlovich. Please, two minutes. Prepare for the Stretovich Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Violations of Information Protection Legislation with Limited Access, which is the property of the State. The bill does not touch the form and content of the administrative offences themselves. It is only about increasing fines for non-compliance with state secret legislation and for violating the order of accounting, storage and use of documents containing confidential information owned by the State. The need for adoption of the bill is due to inadequate damage and the realities of the present, fines imposed by the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which in fact nullifies the educational and preventive functions of the administrative responsibility of officials provided for in article 23 of the Code. In the drafting of the bill, it takes into account the position that the size of the fines offered do not go beyond the limits of the allowances they receive. The media have been working with this information for over a year. The maximum fines do not go beyond those prescribed by administrative legislation. Progressive fines are applied only to officials and, above all, to those who committed such offences the second time in a year after being called to account. The adoption of the bill will enhance the effectiveness of the educational function in relation to a person who has committed administrative offences in the field of protection of information with limited access, which is owned by the State, in a spirit of compliance with Ukraine's laws and prevention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u35	Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u36	Both by person and by other persons. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u37	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Head, more loyally, Deputy Head of the Committee for the Legislative Security of the Law Enforcement Activities, Volodymyr Mikolajovic Stretović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u38	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement law enforcement has been considered by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a bill on strengthening responsibility for violations of legislation on the protection of information with limited access, which is the property of the State. The bill proposes to strengthen fines in articles 212-2 and 212-5 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations 10-20 times in view of the effectiveness of valid scales. We all know that our administrative wrongdoing is an old-fashioned act adopted in Soviet times. Many of the rules on administrative contractions are simply outdated, since they were set many years ago and have not been reviewed throughout this period. Today we have a situation where, for one offence, there is a fine of a thousand untaxed minimums, and for another, one such minimum. Every year we have about a thousand people to blame for breaking state secret legislation, and this number of citizens is relatively stable. At the same time, there has been a steady increase in the number of confidential information violations owned by the State. And one reason is that current fines are unable to perform a preventive function, that is, to keep officials from committing offences. Therefore, in our view, the Security Service rightly asks the question of an increase in fines of 10-20 times in two articles of the Code of Administrative Offences. However, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration is proposing that the bill should be returned to work. They see no reason to increase fines because the government did not provide a solid explanation. We believe that this bill is the basis for everything in the explanatory note. In this way, the committee considers the bill to be such that it will promote more executive discipline in the field of restricted access information, which is the property of the State and recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of its first reading to adopt the bill as a basis. Please support the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u39	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Please sign up for the performance. Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! As for this particular bill, there is once again a double sense, because on the one hand, on the one hand, there is no specific bill of caution, it raises sanctions, and that is in principle correct. The current sanctions are incredibly low today and allow them to be completely ignored. Another problem is that in the light of the adoption of the law, such as access to public information, and that is to say, we need to place a very serious reliance on the wishes of government officials, officials, forces, and so on. It's not too difficult to assign her "secret information" and it can be paid for such abuse. And that's why there's no such abuse in this direction. But to close the information in a very confidential way, it's become traditional. And then the official who's going to be afraid, and whether it's going to be publicized, let's say, after the End-Sleep, who lives there, about what kind of benefits some government officials or other are using at the expense of the state, or whether they're going to fall under the same responsibility, is going to cross ten times before giving the information required by another law. So we, our parliamentary group, have come to the conclusion that this law can be voted on specifically in that order. He's really necessary. But this should only be the beginning of work on a whole block of legislation that is linked to the preservation of information, including the articles to which the changes are made. So we increase the size of the punishments, but we have to review, modernize the very basic text part of the Code of Administrative Offences articles in order to create abuse on the opposite side. So we vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, and then we'll hopefully continue working together on the code.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u41	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT faction. Prepare the Smiling.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u42	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, our constituents! Today, when we consider this bill, we just have to remind ourselves and our voters that, in fact, over the past 20 years, all those secrets, technical, scientific secrets, the economic secrets that have been in Ukraine, they've been sold out, stretched out, and they've been done for nothing, and they've done it with a tremendous scale. Ukraine today prefers simply such a dilapidated widow’s courtyard, where you can go and take away what someone else needs. Because, on the one hand, of course, such a bill, which makes it more difficult, as it were, to protect state secrets, is perfectly logical. That's the way European countries, developed countries go. The other thing is that we, on the one hand, have recently adopted a really revolutionary law on the openness of public information and we already have some small even results in that, let's say today the Internet has already published that in order to maintain traffic in the DUS, in the State Administration, there is the same amount as in maintaining Ukrainian libraries, all over Ukraine as there is now. The killer's absolute argument, the killer's figure. Because of this "Julia Tymoshenko Block," of course, it will support this bill, because it really strengthens. But with the kind of quasi-democracy that we have today, and with the influence of both the Security Service and our militia, I'm convinced that there can be a lot of surprises that some information is really going to close: and how much is the landing cost of the helicopter, how much is being spent on the same Concha-Sap? Because of this, it is obvious that in the first reading it can be accepted. But once again, it requires a second reading of a very pedantic and harsh argument to ensure that the law is protected from abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u43	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u44	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I believe that the government as a whole is late for the implementation of administrative or other standards that prejudge the possibility of spreading information that is harmful to our country and to our society as a whole, especially in the economic sphere. Unfortunately, you know who owns the information, who owns the world. In our country, unfortunately, this does not happen, and we often witness when all the scientific, technical or other inventions of our scientists or our industrial, or other enterprises become the property of other nations or other corporations. And unfortunately, nothing is done in this regard. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian Security Service, in my opinion, should protect entrepreneurs from moving our scientific developments abroad. Unfortunately, in this regard, I do not know a single example of how the Security Service would make it impossible or prevent such information from being exported abroad that would cause a great deal of damage to our nation. And, of course, introducing only administrative responsibility for increasing fines does not solve, in my opinion, the whole issue that is in our state. And there's no question that the previous colleagues are speaking, whether someone lives in Concha-Sleep, whether they live, whether someone builds or doesn't build. This is not where Ukraine’s independence is built. Builds on another issue. How can it be allowed that in our financial system, for example, the International Monetary Fund, international banks and other organizations have access to information? And a national MP who asks the National Bank can't get this information by referring to the confidentiality or confidentiality of this information. I'm giving an example of this because over the course of, you know, you've encountered the share of inflation in our bracelet in 2008. I and the other deputies approached the Head of the National Bank, asked the prime minister then to provide information — how much of the money was actually in gold and how much was in gold. We have never received this information, although foreign sources have information, and we have received this information from foreign sources. This is said as an example of what is covered up and not closed to others.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u45	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u46	I thank you for the opportunity to speak on this issue. And I point out that this law needs to be supported, but it needs to be improved in the light of modern events. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u47	Ruslan Knazevich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u48	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, that's what the bill is about. We've heard a lot of things here, and I think we can do this with water. The point is that after the adoption of the relevant Personal Data Protection Act and after the adoption of the Public Information Act. There is a serious and urgent need to address the responsibility of carriers, completely confidential, secret information. To make it impossible, on their part, for the unsanctioned publication of this information or for the source of this information. In what way is the subject of the legislative initiative trying to resolve the matter accordingly? By raising the amount of punishment for such an act. Dear colleagues, the idea is right, it needs to be supported. It's just not clear why, a year ago, when they wanted to look at this bill in a packet, similar to the contents, it was, in fact, from members of the minority. Why, then, was it not accepted and rejected? And now it's actually similar to the fact that, with just a little bit of the size of it, it's made by the government. But it doesn't matter. It's just too bad we lost a whole year of time because we could have solved that. And the authors of the legislative initiative themselves write that in the last year, when the revision was made, 9,000 violations were detected in that direction. True, for some reason only 1,000 people were punished. So maybe in addition to just, you know, blindly raising fines, we should focus on the irreversibility of punishment to make sure there is no such thing. To ensure that information that should not be disseminated is not so widespread. In a variety of ways, including for commercial purposes or for some, say, unwanted ones, even those that conflict with the interests of the State. Although in general, the bill is faithful. It needs to be accepted now, worked out, I think, in Parliament, for the second reading. Because this problem really needs a settlement. And today, if they don't accept it again today, we don't know when, we don't have 9,000 for the next year, we don't have 29 people who want to abuse their own kind of right, because they're going to feel that there's no punishment for this kind of action that Parliament can't do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u49	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u50	Scientific developments have been exported from Ukraine and will continue to be exported as long as the state treats scientists as bums, and there will be large - scale high - rating speculators and frauds in authority. [[That's what I'm saying to one of the speakers.]] So objectivity creates objectivity. As far as this bill is concerned, it is not entirely clear what it is. Responsibility for violations of restricted information protection legislation, increased responsibility. We can't reinforce what we don't have. There is no responsibility for spreading illegal information in Ukraine. The Henprosecutor's Office is being questioned, and in five minutes, all the content of this interrogation is on the Internet. Please tell me, who should be responsible? I say that if government factors did not merge information with limited access, when it was convenient for them and the state institutions did not trade that information in a favourable way, including the media, there would be no responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u51	Yes, the discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Violations of Information Protection Legislation with Limited Access, which is the property of the State. [[Registration number 8490]] Please vote. [[16:48:35]] For-300 The bill was adopted. Maybe we'll take it as a whole? We are considering the draft Law on the Law. May I? Is there no objection? We are considering the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. [[for mothers with five or more children]] [[Registration number 8421]] There's a short cut. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:49:26]] For 222 Offer supported. Reported Deputy Minister of Social Policy Colomietz Viacheslav Mikolaiovich. Please, two minutes. And prepare for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law, which is being submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council, proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Retirement for Special Credits to Ukraine, which provides for the appointment of special merit pensions to Ukraine's mothers who have given birth to five or more children and raised them to 6 years of age, the pension commissions for special merit before Ukraine at the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district of Kyiv and Sevastopol, the city's public administrations, ranging from 35 to 40 per cent of the living minimum for persons who have lost their jobs. According to the Commission of State Awards and Heraldics to the President of Ukraine, in 2011 alone, it is planned to assign some 31,000 honours to mothers who gave birth to five or more children and raised them to 6 years of age. Making the proposed changes will simplify the order and speed up the procedure for assigning the corresponding pensions to the given category of citizens. The implementation of Ukraine’s draft law does not require additional funds from the Pension Fund of Ukraine and the State Budget. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u53	Thank you. First Deputy Head of the Committee for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Cibenko Petar Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u54	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons considered at its meeting on June 8, 2011, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine for Mothers with Five or More Children. As has already been said, the bill proposes to simplify the procedure for the granting of special merit pensions to mothers with five or more children before Ukraine by returning the right to such pensions by the commissions to the establishment of special merit pensions before the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, Kyivsky and Sevastopol City State Administrations. In doing so, such a pension of between 30 and 40 percent of the living minimum is valid for those who have lost their jobs. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons supports the legislative initiative and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a whole. Because there's practically nothing here to work on. It is a technical bill that needs to be supported in order to shorten the period from filing documents to assigning this supplement to the basic pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u55	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. Behind him is Smitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u56	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! This bill is appraised for Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Because, well, think for yourself. At first, in this Special Deservations Act, we have assigned party officials, even corporate officials of former and already modern officials, to do away with anything but special merit before Ukraine, though, frankly, what merit, in 20 years, our success is so meager that we deserve nothing to say about anything. But after all, we finally came up with the idea that those mothers who gave birth to five children, really, the state has to provide some kind of social protection, some kind of benefits. This demographic situation is catastrophic, which is now in Ukraine, of course, it should have been done a long time ago. But even though we're here today, I don't think anyone's gonna have a hand to take from these mothers who continue our Ukrainian family, to take away those, by the way, not that big of an allowance. Because of the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" he's going to give up all the votes he's got right now for this bill to pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u57	Thank you. Only, Your Honor, please read the bill. It's not about getting pensions, it's long-established, it's about who counts them, and it's not increasing. Please, Smituch George.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u58	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, personally, if you allow me to be born into a large family, we were eight of my parents, and I am happy because we lived and grew up in a large family. And I'm proud that on Volina today, she's a leader in Ukraine with respect to the number of mothers who have both a decent pension and that she's eligible for the title "Mother Heroin" in Ukraine. And unfortunately, there are a lot of things that people can't wait for -- the marks of the state -- in the years before when Mr. Yushchenk was put in office. What are we talking about? We say that over the years of independence we have at least 10 million, we talk about incentives to make the demographic situation better, and we can't take steps that are elementary for mothers who have the opportunity and, God willing to have the opportunity to have five or more children. These are the only people who are really going to make any growth dynamics. And I'm proud that in my village from the moment I left, there was a threefold increase in the village on account of these mothers. That's why I support this bill. It is timely by the government, and it will improve its composition. And there's nothing to delay. Let us vote today in general and do our utmost to support these mothers and parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u59	Thank you. Yuri Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u60	I'd like to give Catherine a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u61	Please, the Vashtuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! In fact, the bill deserves all kinds of support, and it's very good that we'll simplify the system, which is that in the regions the possibility is faster, faster to assign pensions to deserving mothers. However, it is not just about how quickly the pension will be applied. I'd like to see a mother named "mama hero" in the regions as soon as possible. And the second one, just as quickly, they were engaged. And the third, today, to the government, to the present minister of finance, is to pay this one-time bonus to the heroine mothers as quickly as possible, the aid that is provided for along with the title "Mother Hero." The title is the title, and there is the reward. And we're endlessly thrown in letters that turn to heroin mothers and ask them to speed up the process because they won't wait. They're 80 years old, and they're in line for a few years. Of course, it is prolonged by past power, but it is not very operational in this regard and today’s authorities. And this has to be critically acknowledged and done for mothers who have given birth and raise 5 or more children. I think it would be an honor for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The Company's faction is one minute. Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u64	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Peter Cibenko. I'd like to thank Adam Ivanovich for doing part of my work, reminding one of his colleagues that we don't set up, we're just technologically moving from one regional level to another setting up this pension. The other one. Even in the original edition of this, and then it spread at the time of the adoption of only 15-17,000 people, mothers who had given birth and raised children, were present. So once again, I want to emphasize two things: the fact that this law does not reduce the level of support, secondly, it shortens the deadline for this pension by transferring it to the region. And I would like us all to support this document together, because it is extremely important. Today, more than a million citizens of Ukraine are receiving such assistance through this law, so I am stressing once again that the committee is proposing to adopt not only as a basis but also as a whole this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u65	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, there is no objection to putting him to the vote for acceptance as a whole? Is there no objection? No, it's not. I'm voting on a proposal for acceptance as a basis and in the whole of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. [[for mothers with five or more children]] [[Registration number 8421]] Please vote. [[17:00:23]] For 324 Decision taken. So the law was passed. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[about bringing in with the Ukrainian Nadra Code]] [[Registration number 8238]] The offer was short-circuited, right? I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. [[17:01:01]] For 223 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Gregory Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, today the Law on Amendments to the Land Code, which was developed by the National Deputies of Vaschuk, Martinyuk, Melnik, Tereshuk, Bondik, has its main purpose of improving the Earth Code by bringing its articles 150 and 208 into line with the Ukrainian Code on Nadra. Today's disagreement, and above all in determining the right of landowners to acquire useful fossils of local importance, namely peat, has a negative impact on the development of peatland in Ukraine. What is it? Article 23 of the Nadra Code gives landowners and owners the right to extract useful fossils of local value for their household needs, and peat is designed at a depth of up to three feet [2 m], within the land that they have been given without permission or diversion. While article 150 of the Earth’s Code states that peat peats with a depth of more than three feet [1 m] and dried irrespective of depth are considered to be particularly valuable land and that the development of peat is prohibited. As a result, this is a painting. We have over 600,000 hectares in Ukraine of land that have peat that are suitable for extraction. Three hundred thousand, where more than two feet [2 m] or up to two feet [two m] of pears lie down. Today, only one percent is in development, only one percent. What's going on? They're coming in nature.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u67	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u68	Nature has its own processes. The torpedoes either burn and release the gas into the atmosphere, or they burn in real terms, as fires do in the Plain region today, there have been many fires on the Wall. The pears will burn. And if you're going to get a stunt like that, you're going to have to get a hundred permits. During the past year, only six were given environmental protection services, none this year. And we don't get peat, people don't use it, and peasants and those who can use it as fertilizer. Please support him, this law. It is for the benefit of both Ukraine and the peasants and those who acquire it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u69	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Thank you. Now, one second. Thank you. Who will be speaking from the committee? Yes, please sign up for the discussion. Yes, Taras Cranvill, MP of Reforms for the Future, and then Smith.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! In general, these amendments, they are minor, which are made to legislation, are correct and appropriate, especially given that Ukraine today faces a very serious problem in finding alternative sources of energy, alternative fuels. Clearly, support is needed. And our MP group voted in favour of voting for these changes. The only thing is that the law, really, is short, it contains two short notes, two short notes. Two brief additions. The first addition is part of the definition of especially valuable land. The second supplement is about exemption from regret. In the second part, unfortunately, the reduced procedure, we can't get an explanation from the authors, but it would still be appropriate to assess how much it was necessary and should have made the second part. If this is further highlighted and this problem is removed, it may be possible to vote on it as a whole. I mean, once again, the first part is not a warning, the second part is not fully understood, it would be good to have a professional explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u71	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Karmazin will be next. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u72	Dear colleagues! We have considered on the committee this bill, which colleague Vaschuk is introducing for consideration. And, of course, I want to inform you, if we're looking at Central and Eastern and Southern Ukraine, this question is not really relevant. It is relevant to the Polish regions, and often these regions have very limited land areas, and they have limited resources to develop some economic processes. Taking into account the law we passed on alternative sources of energy in our country, peat, for example, in the Polish region, in the Wallin region, in the Plain region, in the Zitomir region, in the area, in others. There are pressing problems and pressing issues that are now for regional development, economic growth in this region. That's the first question. I want to point out that peatland is shared in principle. Two categories. Some peatland that can really be used to use as fuel is very special. And peatlands that can be used to improve the fertility of the soil as fertilizer. And these, of course, if you take a general picture from the previous estimates that about 600,000 hectares of this land, which is covered by peat, then, in fact, Ukraine has the opportunity to increase the fertility of the land by reprocessing the peat and decorating the land that needs it, and certainly by increasing the fuel potential for energy in general. I think that peatland, which has more than one metre, deserves to be used for these purposes. And peatland, which has one or less meters, is underutilized, because it has to be preserved, as it really is, by land that has special characteristics. Therefore, the committee did not come to a clear conclusion as a result of the first reading, but recommended that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u73	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u74	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read this bill carefully, and we need to pay more attention to alternative forms of energy. And to look at this bill also for an ecological purpose, and to see that the dried peatlands are being used completely ineffectively today. You know what happened to hydro-technical structures, they were destroyed practically in the state around us, and we only have a huge problem. As a result, I thank the national deputies who made this proposal. And I think this bill should be adopted. And it is absolutely necessary to record as is currently predicted that the extraction of peat on condition that land is returned to a state fit for use and in social production. Because of the condition that the land will be left behind and the extent to which the exemption from the loss of agricultural and forestry production provided for in article 208 is likely to depend on how we leave all of this to our children. Although, looking at the findings of the science department and analyzing them, who reject this bill, talk about deviation, I'd like to take some of these conclusions into account. That is why I propose to adopt the bill in the first reading and by no means go into shortening the terms, allowing it to work with him to serve the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u75	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Land (to be brought into line with the Code of Ukraine). What did he say? Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. Adam Ivanovich just gave me a stern warning. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukraine Code of Land. [[about bringing in with the Ukrainian Nadra Code]] [[Registration number 8238]] Please vote. [[17:11:26]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! Please note, we have three draft laws on legislative measures to ensure reform of the pension system: government, groups of national deputies led by Andrey Pavlovski and by Arsenius Yatsenuk. [[Registration number 7455]] [[Registration number 7455-1]] [[Registration number 7455-2]] I'm betting on a vote to put the day-to-day proposal on inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. About getting into the daytime. [[17:12:33]] For 229 Decision taken. Now the committee, please. By faction, please: The Party of Regions – 172, "BUT-"Batakushina" – 1, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 14, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, The People's Party – 20 non-fractional – 2. Now, dear colleagues, the committees are in place, so that we can discuss this when we're ready, with the complete program. Therefore, there is an alternative to choosing from. Yes, distinguished national MPs, we are now moving on to the question. This is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the social performance of the budget]] Registration number 8654. I beg you, the verdict has already been made. Why they didn't hand out the verdict, because I do. Give the order. Set up a decree! One moment, fellows of honor! There is a suggestion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[17:14:03]] For 239. Dear colleagues, please! Secretariat, give the order immediately. I was told it was a decree. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! Is there a verdict? Well, look. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, they're handing out a verdict. Dear colleagues, what are you?Oh, my God! Please. Yes, Your Honor, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u76	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. The 2011 budget, built on qualitatively new innovative approaches to project management based on the principle of proactiveity, is being successfully implemented. Effective income management has yielded results, and the income base of the budget has been filled with stability and fullness. Within 5 months, it was possible to increase the government budget by a third compared to the corresponding period of last year. There is a steady rise in the pace of over-indicative income indicators for the State Budget General Fund. In January the recovery rate was 0.8 percent, and in January it was 1 percent. In January/April, revenue was already converted by 4 percent, and in January/May by 5.2 percent, or more than 5 billion dollars, which has not been seen since 2008. The tax reform carried out at the same time ensured a significant overrun of the forecasting of basic fiscal taxes. VAT in 5 months – 5.1 billion dollars, rent – 1.6 billion dollars, company income tax – 1.5 billion dollars. Government measures to stimulate economic growth enabled the economic growth rate to be higher in 2011 than anticipated by the end of 2010. Real GDP has increased by 5.2 percent in the first quarter, which is quite high compared to the European Union countries. In Italy, 0.1 percent, Hungary 0.7 percent, Great Britain 0.5 percent, Poland and France 1 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u77	Fedor Alexiyovich, let's do what's proposed in increasing spending. What's in France, there, in Japan -- we'll read it later. Please. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u78	Industrial production is still responsible by 8.5 percent, agricultural production by 4 percent. The amount of construction work done is increasing. Construction growth since January-April 2011 is 11.6 percent. Some positive economic trends have led to the creation of preconditions to clarify the projections of the main macroeconomic indicators for 2011 that were budgeted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u79	Fedor Aleksyyyovich, I ask you, Fedor Aleksyyyovich, please tell me what you're suggesting, which articles, which areas are further allocated. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u80	Okay. Thus, the budget changes provide for a significant improvement in the social security of the budget, including an average increase in the salaries of budgeted workers by 12.6 dollars, teachers will receive 340 dollars more and doctors will receive 300 dollars more. The target is 1.6 billion dollars. An increase in the number of pedagogical workers who will receive a 20% salary allowance. The target is 500 million dollars. The total salary increase of the head of the preschool facility will be 646, which is almost 30 percent higher. Graduates of medical, educational, and educational institutions are provided with a one - time allowance of five times the minimum wage in a rural health care facility — 85.8 million dollars. Improvements in the working conditions of TB workers are estimated at 83 million. The salary of such workers in the current year will increase by 1 thousand 736 dollars or 67.4 percent. Saving the average wage for health - care professionals who are sent for training to improve their qualifications. Setting up a 20% allowance for workers in social protection institutions. All of this will raise their average monthly salary by 370 in 2011, almost 28 percent. In general, the state budget’s additional expenditure on the provision of these social benefits amounts to 2.3 billion dollars. The changes to the State Budget Act provide for increased funding of a number of urgent needs. First. This is 1.7 billion dollars -- government capital expenditure; 1 billion 540 million dollars -- for state support to coal and peat mining; 1.6 billion dollars -- for the capital city of Kiev in the area of housing and utility reform; 1.1 billion dollars -- for the development of regions and for the social development of individual areas. 300 million dollars to replenish the statutory funds of state-owned aviation companies. 200 million greaves to eliminate the consequences of the CHAES disaster. 200 million grevens are for the pension of the disabled, the feeding of the Chernobyl children, and the provision of technical rehabilitation. In addition, 155 million are for the construction of a sewage drainage system in Odessa. 100 million dollars for the building. 91.9 million bracelets are for the transfer of registration records to the residence of natural persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u81	Thank you, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u82	In addition to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u83	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u84	I'm done, I'm done. And I mean, honourable national MPs! That the changes to the State Budget Act will allow Ukraine to balance the Naftogaz deficit of Ukraine, where we send 3.5 billion bracelets. Implement the results of reforms in specific areas. To implement the President's plans, the government to raise the population's well-being.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u85	Yes, thank you. Thank you. Have a seat. Valerius Alexiovich Baranov, chairman of the committee
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u86	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! The Committee on Budgets at its session considered a bill amending the State Budget for 2011 Act, submitted by Cabinet of Ministers, No. 8654. The bill is designed to implement the final provisions of the State Budget Act of Ukraine for this year. In general, the bill provides for such changes in the main indicators of the State budget. Income has been increased by 14 billion. The marginal deficit has been reduced by 3.5 billion. But there's an increase of 11.4 billion. The bill is balanced in terms of the state budget. The bill has significantly increased the revenue plan for the state budget. And it's also increased by 1.9 billion projections of VAT budgetary compensation. On the basis of the additional revenues of the State budget, it is proposed to address a number of social issues in the development of the priority economy and inter-budget relations. I've already told you about them, Minister of Finance. I won't repeat myself. Based on the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the outcome of the first reading, the bill can be adopted on the basis of observations and suggestions. In addition, the Committee on Budget Affairs, with the participation of government representatives, has worked out previous proposals by national MPs to address a number of urgent issues, problems and priority socio-economic development measures in the region. According to the Committee on Budget Affairs, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill to amend the State Budget 2011 Act under registration No. 8654 to adopt as a basis and as a whole a law taking into account the proposals made in the Committee's letter. In the event of the adoption of the draft budget committee bill, together with the Chief Legal Authority, with the participation of the representatives of MINFIN in the drafting of the bill, it is up to him to be included in its text and additional relevant legislative and technical clarifications. I'd like you to consider technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u87	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u88	Please consider a technical error from which the proposal in Appendix 6 to the bill on the third page of the "5,000" number is not included to replace the "7,000" with a balanced number.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u89	Seven million, I guess.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u90	Vladimir Mikhailovich, 7,000, there in thousands, means 7 million, and it says 7,000. With the total loss of 10 million dollars due to the return of the corresponding numbers of Appendix 3, 4 of Bill No. 1. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u91	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Ivan Kirilenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Peter Melnik will be next. Andrew Pavlovsky, right? Andrew Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u92	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Dear fellow countrymen, what we are currently looking at is difficult to call changes to the State Budget. It's rather a fraction of the budget for its particularly close persons, region and so on, Because look at what's going on. At the penal level, repressive authorities such as the Attorney General's Office have increased by 70 million dollars, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has increased funding by 288 million, to Horoshkovsky, BSS 108 million additional. At the same time, it seems to have been smeared to raise social standards so that every teacher, doctor, budgeter gets 10 or 15 more dollars from the top, because in the last year, prices have doubled for the most essential food products, while the Pay for Work Act is not being implemented when the qualified teacher of the higher category is not being paid 700 dollars, the doctor is 800 dollars. At the same time, look at the cost, this interesting table. On the so-called Novograd Wallinsky District, one well-known actor, 25 million dollars are allocated, and the other MPs have nothing at all that's very interesting. As it turns out, for one park in Donetsk, just think of the amount of money in Petrovsky’s park, 54 million dollars. That's how much you have to steal from one park or gold statues or something? At the time, for example, the cities of Mariupol, Kharkiv, Lviv, and Donetsk 150 million. I'd like to turn around! The Ministry of Agrarian Politics, for example, 39, of which 17 are just to maintain the central apparatus. Compare, one park in Donetsk is 54 million, and the entire Ukrainian village is 39, seventeen, the jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u93	Peter Melnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Kilinkarov will be next. Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Peter Melnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. I was asked by the faction of the Party of the Regions to support our Olympics and to include in addition the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers, 75 million dollars. It's very important. I think you and I understand this task and the prestige of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that of course the government has made a proposal for changes to the budget because we have a stable economy, and there is an increase in the income part of the budget. And that's the holy truth. And specifically, there is a bill to reduce the government budget deficit by reducing government domestic borrowings, just as it is necessary to obtain a general deficit rate for the state-owned NAC Naftogazu sector at a level of not more than 3.5 per cent of GDP. This will reduce the debt burden on the budget and contribute to an increase in the average government debt repayment, which is very important. I want to remind you that the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing an increase in the cost of work in the budget area by a total of 2.4 billion dollars, of which 1.7 billion dollars are local budgets. It is proposed to increase individual development costs by a total of 3.15 billion dollars. In particular, subsidies to local development budgets plus 1 billion. 45. 450 million. The increase in expenditure will be done on the basis of the performance of Kiev’s capital function and. By 1.6 billion dollars, it's a problem that's also a problem that needs to be solved. We were just talking to you about the torpedo industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u95	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u96	I supported and thank you for supporting this bill, and it is the changes to the budget that are meant to increase the cost of the torphobic industry. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u97	Thank you. Thank you. Sergey Kilincarov, Communist faction. Next will be Paul Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Ukrainian Company faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! It's a beautiful title of the bill. It's very beautiful. It's an attractive explanatory note. A report from the minister of finance makes me want to cry. But what is really the price of the question? Some positive developments are, of course, and it would be wrong to say that they are not. But what is really the price of the question? In what way are the achievements that are now being built? At the beginning of the year, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine registered a bill under number 7562 called "The State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments". This bill envisioned the whole feature of the Queen of Social Protection of Veteranism, the disabled, the most vulnerable categories of the population -- the Chernobyl population, and so on -- to remove from the laws of direct action, instead of writing the rule that this legislation is in operation in scope and in order established by the Cabinet of Ministers. As this bill was found not to be supported by the Supreme Council, most deputies did not support the bill, so they decided to go the other way: this bill, 7532, is in the Ukrainian State Budget Act. I'm here to make everyone understand, my dear colleagues, the cost of building the well-being of individual categories of Ukrainian citizens. I mean, at the expense of my parents, at the expense of my grandfathers, of those people who were told nice words the day before Victory Day. All of this is forgotten, and now everything is done the other way around. And so the faction of the Company of Ukraine strongly opposes the adoption of this law, considers it a lie and will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u99	Pavel Žebrovsky, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u100	Paul Zebravsky, "Ukrainian Platform". Dear colleagues, I'm trying to keep it quiet. Before that, 24 billion were written down in the first and in general by a reduced procedure. Now it's going to be 11.5 billion dollars. And a greater horror and a rivalry of Parliament, as such, cannot be invented. In fact, what do we have? They're talking about economic dynamics. What the hell's the economics dynamic? The main key point is the retail, four-month retail, compared to the previous year, four-month increase of 12.4 percent. If you take producer prices, last year. Not the price of producers, the inflation of the past is 9.1 and this year is 5.5, so actually inflation is higher than the increase in circulation. So the retailer's down. In the United States, a 0.1 drop in the retail trade is a disaster. We're down three percent, and we're talking about economic growth. Of course, since the price increases, we have incomes, but how have they been divided? 1.7 billion dollars in total focused on social spending for local budgets. And 20 percent of the increase in wages for health education is enough? No, definitely not. Minculture alone lacks about 200 million dollars, I’m not talking about Minosveti anymore, I’m not talking about Minosveti. If you look at today, where did the money go? This money is gone: one billion -- it's like socio-economic development. But, my friends, look at the subsidies to local budgets and 1.7 billion at Minfin's disposal is a terrible towel. The campaign has already begun. A particular village, a particular area, a particular district, is being set aside. They said here about Novograd Wallinsky County, I love Žitomirščina and Novograd Wallinsky County, but what's worse about Berdichovsky, Malinsky and other districts? Why 25 million dollars? And only representatives share.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u101	Thank you. Yeah? Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u102	I suggest that if you want to vote like this, it's only on the first reading. In the second reading, I think we're going to fix this and we can't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u103	Thank you, thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The show was made of factions. There's been a performance from the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's proposal is now in the vote. Dear colleagues! I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, okay. I'll put it to a vote, please, Yuri Anatolyovich. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. I'm asking you. on the approval of the draft Law, taking into account the conclusion of the Budget Committee, which was reported by the Head of the Budget Committee. Please vote. [[17:36:06]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions? Please. Don't shout. Region Party 187, decision taken, I tell you again. "BUT – "Fatherhood" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 15, communists – 0, "For Future Reforms" – 19, "The People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 11. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 is being announced for consideration. [[on International Audit Accounts]] The rapporteur is Finance Minister Jaroshenko Fedir Aleksiyovich. Correspondent: Baranov Valerij Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u104	Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear Mr. Head!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u105	The law has been passed, and I told you, the law has been passed. I didn't hear. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, dear colleagues, don't disturb me. Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. No, that's the second question. [[17:37:26]] For 233 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Finance Minister Jaroshenko Fedir Aleksiyovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of Baranov Valerij Aleksijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Now that we've just adopted the amendments to the State Budget Act, we've already voted on the financing of expenditure for an international audit. So the bill, which is proposed for presentation, is asked to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, I am voting on a motion to withdraw from the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[Registration number 8580]] [[on International Audit Accounts]] Please vote. [[17:38:29]] For 241 Decision taken. Kirilo Kulikov, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u108	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We've been discussing this issue on the budget committee, and there's the State Audit Service as the main fund manager. Now she has that name, it's the KRU. According to the Budget Code, such an article does not have a budget. Thus, when the State Treasury and the CPR sign this document, they will sign an objective article according to the purposeless use of funds for the allocation of funds to foreign expertise and foreign audit, there is no such thing in the Budget Code. So if we're going to make this decision right now, we have to think about those people who are going to have to sign this decision, but it's going to be series number two, the same thing that happened in the treasury of the past government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u109	Thank you. One minute, there's no law, it's been removed, I'm asking you. I'll tell you, an artist can be offended, yes. Dear colleagues, a draft decree on the 2011 Ukrainian declaration of the Year of Memory of the Dead in the Great Homeland War 1941-1945 is under review. Registration number 8435. I am voting on the motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure and at the same time announce an extension of the evening session for 15 minutes. Please vote. [[17:40:32]] For-200 Decision taken. The reporter is Vadim Koleschenko. Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u110	Dear colleagues! We propose to support the Ukrainian decree of 2011 on the memory of the dead in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. The main topic is the creation of an organizational committee to develop official measures that could be used in the last six months. In order to preserve the memory and respect of the victims of Nazism, the people who died during the Great Homeland War of Liberation Soldiers, who were tortured in concentration camps of children, women, prisoners of war, destroyed civilians, the preservation of historical truth and the development of the famous Ukrainian people's war and labour traditions, the strengthening of the patriotic upbringing of Ukrainian citizens and the formation of national unity for the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposed this year to establish as a year of memory of the dead in the Great Vatican War of 1941-1945. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is proposed to set up an organizational committee and, it is desirable, organizational committees -- in district administrations, in district councils, in order to draw the attention of society and to develop a concrete plan of action that could be implemented in the last 6 months, not only to honor but also to take concrete action, concrete measures, concrete measures, specific expectations of our people, to be designed in such a way that it is not a matter of eternalization, but to bring the Ukrainian people together at this great tragedy and great memory, which will begin in the year of the beginning of the Great National War. It is proposed that this draft decision be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u111	Please, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, First Deputy Head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The draft decree, presented by the Ukrainian national deputy, Vadim Vasilovich Kolesnichenko and Leonid Alexiyovich Isaev, provides for a 2011 declaration of the memory of the dead in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. It should be noted that the members of our committee have always been supported and will continue to be supported by any legislative initiative aimed at ensuring that the memory and honour of the dead are cherished, especially in the years of the Great Homeland War. On the eve of the tragic date of June 22, the issue of honor to every direct victim of that terrible war is more than ever, socially significant. This is especially true of families who have not only lost their loved ones but also rebuilt the ruins of their homeland on their shoulders. It is also worth noting that the draft decree also requires editorial work. In particular, the State Committee on Veterans, after administrative reform, is called the State Service for Disabled Persons and Veterans of Ukraine. At its meeting on May 18, this year, the committee reviewed the draft regulation and, taking into account the relevant comments on its drafting, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be returned to the subjects of the legislative initiative for further development. At the same time, I would like to remind you that on May 20th of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decree on the introduction of a special ceremony in Ukraine on June 22, each year, entitled "Minors of the Dead in the Great Homeland War 1941-1945", initiated by the National Deputy of Ukraine Nasace. This decree has already been implemented annually, on June 22nd, the adoption of the State flag of Ukraine, the "minutes of silence" at 10 a.m., the suspension of time of work in public authorities and local government bodies, enterprises, workplaces and organizations, the movement of public and private transport with appropriate sound signals, the restriction of broadcasting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u113	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u114	Limiting the broadcasts of entertainment programs and interrupting the radio and television broadcasts for this hour. Dear colleagues, unlike the committee, I believe that this decision could have been adopted. But I'd like to say one more thing. Dear colleagues, you and I may not have wanted to do so, but by the previous vote, we have very much welcomed our veterans, and now it will be a pig voice, if you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u115	Thank you. Please write down if you need to discuss the matter. Please put your name on the board. Igor Alexeyev, Communist faction. Then there's Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u116	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u117	Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u118	I thank you very much for giving me the floor. And what I'm saying is that the faction of the Ukrainian Company, like the Communist Party of Ukraine as a whole, has already made decisions at its political meetings, party bureaus about what we are celebrating especially this day, the day of the beginning of the great tragedy of the past century in our country. We have already begun and conducted public tribunals over those who want to turn those who fought and helped the fascists into heroes. We're already determined by what we're going to be doing these days in rallying, in requisition. That we are in these days at 4 a.m. when the bombs started to fall on the Kyiv, on Sevastopol, when the blood flowed to the Brest Fortress, at 4 a.m., we, together with the grandchildren and great-granddaughters of the winners, along with the children of war, who have been deprived of the opportunity to receive state support by the previous vote, will put flowers into the monuments of glory, we will put sparkles and candles to Dniepra Slavic. We will support and vote that year to the end of the year be a day of memory, a memory of those who have saved our land with their lives, who have saved all of Europe with their lives. Because, really, as the song "Victoration" says, we don't know where Europe would be if it wasn't for the Soviet army that not only the Soviet Union freed the Fascist horde, but also the whole Western Europe. We would.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u119	Yes, Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u120	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Since the ruling does not contain a norm, it does have certain political assessments, ideological fundamentals, and so on, we have decided that our faction will vote freely, everyone will make decisions as he personally sees fit. In this case, I want to express my position. As far as the decision is concerned, the name is beautiful, and it is vital to honor the memory. But it is a daily job to honor the memory. We need to make commitments under the law on children of war, help the same veterans, help them materially, financially, help them at least so that today’s price increases, inflation does not affect their lives and existence, provide veterans with the same free cars that they are in line for, and will probably not wait until their death, proper medical care, that is what needs to be done. When the necessary actions that can be done and voted by the leaders of the pro-power coalition are replaced by decorations like we love veterans, how we respect how we grieve for them, you know, there's something a little bit about this cynical. So in this case, I think that this very decision, by its own content, is hardly worth supporting. Plus a historical factor. Where will you put the people who died at the beginning of World War II? Not only the Ukrainians who fought in the same Polish army against German Nazism, but the same soldiers who were killed under the Vinniki during the first fight with the German Nazis. Where do you put them? Don't you grieve for them? And for those who died in Japan, then, by the end, in August?Oh, my God! You're not grieving? Do you have them? You know, it seems to me that the decision itself is so weak that it doesn't deserve support. It's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u121	Thank you. Victor Terrence, "BUT" faction, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u122	Victor Terrence, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues! Well, let's think about it. 2011 is a day. A year of memory of the dead. What about 2010? What about 2012? It's not a year of memory. That is, those who shed blood for the Fatherland in their homeland need to be remembered for more than a year. This should always be remembered. Adam Mickevich also said that love for Motherland, Adam Mickevich, that love for Motherland begins with respect for those who shed blood for this country. And do we have respect for those who shed blood for the Motherland? I'd have imagined that. To give something normal, specific, some help to these people. And not to do that, the Communist MP said right here that you can't support it in a pig's voice with a fig leaf, you know, but actually do something different. If we want to help those who fought for the war, Chernobyl, children of war, are judged by the courts, but they're still not given this money. Let's say we return the savings. Not so many war veterans are left. Well, make an exception to these people, return the savings. So they can buy some drugs. So they can go to the sanatorium. And then it will be honored by the man who for his country, indeed they shed more than one day, not one year. And it will be as long as there is this state of Ukraine. And that's why the MP who proposed this decision, well, he's kind of weird, you know. He's got everything separate. For these are the cemeteries, and for those, they are the ones. We need to think about life, to help people today, not to speed up, unfortunately, our actions to avoid these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u123	Thank you. I see. Ruslan Knazević is a minute and then Oleg Zarubinsky is a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u124	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, our faction will not be entirely, of course, supportive of the decree. For those reasons, at the beginning of the year, the President decreed this year as the 20th year of independence of Ukraine, and we were welcomed by all of us with the New Year – the 20th year of independence. Now there's an attempt to take this initiative from the President and replace it with another one. No one is saying at all that this year is absolutely tragic in our history. But, dear fellows, now before June 22nd, to pedal this topic again, I think, even after this problem had risen on the Council of Regions, and the decision had been taken to remove it from the agenda, and there were sufficient absolute arguments now expressed in this room to make a decision after a minute of silence and again not to worry either part of Ukraine with all the extra troubles around me. It's a premeditated problem. So, you know, at the end of June, it's not appropriate to make a decision to define a year as a given number, at least from the point of view that the Supreme Council could, if it would be very desirable, if it were really anybody's concern at the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u125	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u126	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, the draft decree deals with the 2011 announcement. You know. I have this idea, and 2012 will not be the year of honouring the dead in the Great Homeland War, but 2013? Let's say these people, who really called themselves the smallest year -- that was the 27th year, lived as long as possible. We should not call each other separate for years, but each day, every month, should be a weekly celebration of these people. One second. What about those Ukrainians who didn't want to fight the Soviet-Finland war? Thousands and thousands of these people have died, too, and they don't belong here. What about those echelons who went to the Far East after May 9 to fight with militaristic Japan, thousands and thousands of those who died there? Dear colleagues, it seems to me that it is necessary for us to make and produce laws that do not disunite society but that unite society.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. The Committee’s conclusion: Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. At the same time, under the Rules, I am voting on the basis of the draft decree on the 2011 Ukrainian Declaration of the Year of Memory of the Dead in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. [[Registration number 8435]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:55:38]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've got whoever we want. I am voting on the second proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative of the draft law on pre-processing, registration number 8435. Dear colleagues, please be quiet. [[17:56:10]] For 234 Decision taken. What? No, we did not go back, but to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to work, I put it to a vote, and the Supreme Council decided. I beg of you, dear fellows. Once again, we have made decisions that are perfectly legal and regular. It's being announced before the draft of the 90th anniversary of the birth of Dmitri Lucenka. The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. [[17:57:07]] For 240 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u128	Dear Society, it is suggested that you think of Dmitri Lucenka, a famous Ukrainian poet. But most of all, man has been glorified by his own written works. Dmitry Lucenko from Kiev, from the village of Berezov Rudka. This is the village where Taras Shevchenko was very often present. Ukraine is singing today. He's gone and it's over. Now it's gonna be, like, 90 years old in the fall. There is no Dmitry Lucenka himself, but most importantly, his songs are singing over Ukraine. Of course, his most famous song is "How Not to Love You, Kyiv." I can also call it "Sivina." These are songs that are epochal, as it were, that the whole nation sang and sang to this day: "No noise, Calinho", "Mommy's cherry", "Summer gold." In partnership with such outstanding and sometimes brilliant composers as Alexander Bilash, an outstanding tuner of European proportions. With Armenians, Maibeards, Pashkewish, Shamo left us just a colossal legacy. He also received the highest art talk that has been and is today in Ukraine – the Shevchenk Prize. This Jubilee does not require much expense. It's just that in order for our radio and television in these days to be reminded again of the brilliant songs, the nostalgic songs that are so necessary today, it might be during this period of some kind of psychological sadness, hardship, and so forth. Therefore, we ask that we vote in favour of marking this Jubilee at the national level.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u129	That's it, thank you. All of you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u130	Right. But I have the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u131	So let's think about it now. Dear colleagues! Is there no objection to putting this question to the vote? None. I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt a draft ruling as a 90-year-old decree from the birthday of Dmitri Lucenka. [[Registration number 8382]] Please vote. [[18:00:10]] For 289 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose to you the draft Order amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 150th anniversary of the day of death and the day of burial of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk. Let's look at this in a simplified way. Is there no objection? Please vote. [[18:00:44]] For 224 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u132	Well, thank you for Lucenka. It's true, it's not that Lucenko, but it doesn't matter. Dear colleagues, the essence of the clarification to the decision we have made with you. We have adopted with you a decree on the 150th anniversary of the death and burial day of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk. We've taken this decision because the Ministry of Culture has offered us to be in this decision, and we've taken this position in a decree to have Taras Grigorovich Shewchenka, in the territory of the Kyiv National Museum, build such a manuscript repository, where there would be manuscripts and Taras Shevchenk, because they are actually in a very unsatisfactory state today at the Institute of Literature of the Academy of Sciences. We accepted it, and it was perfectly normal. Once again, it was the offer of the Ministry of Culture. Today, a coalition has emerged that, indeed, the museum itself has a new leadership today. It was found that, of course, it is not appropriate to touch the very territory of this museum, which is also a national sanctuary. Because of this, there is a proposal: to remove the term "in the territory of the National Museum of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk". Because it doesn't have to be specifically called where, let this place look for city power and elsewhere build on this, indeed, a unique and necessary handwritten shelter and Taras Shevchenk, obviously, and John Frank will be able to move there on a modern level and with modern technology. That's what I'm asking you to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, has the offer understood, no objection to putting it to the vote? Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u134	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I won't take much time. It is simply doubtful what is being observed. What is it about celebrating the day of death, celebrating the burial? There are philosophers, maybe better honors, or something else, you know, markings have a completely different connotation in Ukrainian language, celebrate celebrations, celebrate celebrations, dates, not funeral days. I'm not a specialist, there are philosophers here, let them do it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u135	Dear colleagues! We have already made this decision, and it is already in effect. Now change everything, although it's clear that honor will be better, because you can celebrate your birthday. Now that we start changing things, we'll replace everything. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u136	I want to make it clear, colleagues, we've already made this decision, we've taken it up and we've really honored it. I'm going to Zarubinsky, I'm a professor with higher education, so believe me, they do that. The notation doesn't mean applause and so forth, but that's true, and let's not touch this norm anymore, which is in the Shevchenka Museum. Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, do not be offended; let it remain as it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u137	Dear colleagues, no objection to voting? I'm betting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it as a decree. [[Registration number 8418]] Please vote. [[18:04:47]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party 7, "BUT" – "Batakushina" – 37, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 11, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, "The People's Party" – 20, non-fractional – 2. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have yet to consider one draft Food Security Act under registration number 8370 in 8370-1. Let's look at this in a simplified way. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[18:05:42]] For the 220. Decision taken. Reporters: Ukrainian national deputies Kravchenko Mikola and Gregory Kaletnik Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Sergey Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u138	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I'd like to ask for one minute, because I'm going to report two bills. Food security is an integral part of economic well-being and a major vector of national security for the State, since it is not only guaranteed access for all Ukrainians to food, but also the ability of the State to provide food products, current and extraordinary needs at the expense of its own resources. Food security is an integral part of national security. The provision of environmentally sound and economically affordable food to support active health and to provide the necessary insurance supplies is a key task of national agro-food security. The country may produce enough food, but this does not guarantee that all citizens will be able to buy it. Nearly a third, namely: 28 percent of Ukrainians live outside the poverty line. As we can see, there are two main ingredients of food today: economic and physical accessibility. In various parts of Ukraine, we can observe imbalances in one of these signs. In addition to these problems, we should not forget that citizens’ prices and incomes are inadequate. Today we can see a picture of people in a world leader's country who are forced to pay the world's price in production and supply to the world's food market, although they can count on a much higher level of accessibility. Food security is a common problem for the agricultural sector and the state, and its solution requires the creation of a qualitatively new paradigm for solving interdependent socio-economic, technological and environmental problems. Reforms must take into account the extent to which they are expected to have a constructive and destructive impact on basic life - support systems for society, population creation, physical and physical.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u139	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u140	Physical and spiritual health, education, and nations. The adoption of the law regulates relations between the State and the food market. According to the committee and the drafters of the bill, the development of the APC has a very serious prospect, in view of the dynamic growing need for food in the world. And so Ukraine has to take care not only of its own food security, but, first of all, to try to refocus its industry in such a way as to face external threats, to be competitive and to form a large export potential for agricultural products. To sum it up, I would like to ask you, honourable colleagues, to support draft Law 8370 as a basis, 8370-1 as a basis. And we also agreed with the author of Bill 8370 that in our second reading we will combine some of the same visions regarding the formation of the Food Security Law, and by unifying it to read it together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u141	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u142	Fellow dignitaries, the Committee on Agricultural Policy of Land Relations, reviewed the bill and noted its relevance. Each civilized state, as we call it, has its own paradigm, its own strategy to protect its own internal market, to make its own food security. There are so many challenges in the world today. The population on the planet is growing unrestrainedly. Food is still less. Energy prices are rising. Food is becoming more expensive. Natural disasters, climate change -- all of this leads to the need for every country to take care of food security. Such a program has been in the United States for more than 15 years, such a program is in Germany, and it is in other countries that represent Europe today. So I realize that there are a lot of comments to the bill. We have agreed that we will unite the bills, we will take into account all your suggestions, and during our consideration we will adopt the bill that our country should have. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u143	Yes, dear fellows, the committee is offering to accept as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u144	Well, now, one minute. Draft law. [[Registration number 8370-1]] The main scientific and expert office believes that two bills should be sent for further work. Please express your thoughts on this matter. Dear colleagues, please sign up. Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Taras Cranville. Then Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u145	I'm asking you to pass the word to a colleague of the Volodymyr Chapleinka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u146	Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u147	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished colleagues! We have considered these two bills carefully and, of course, our fears have waved in favour of 8370-1. I'd like to prove why. Surely we have all heard the World Bank’s Head of Bank Robert Zellick’s statement at the end of April that there is a great new, new, powerful wave of crisis in the world. And for some reason, he called it something like the food crisis of the world. And the rest of the factors that affect this economic crisis. And especially in Ukraine, preparing to resist such a food crisis, such work has not been done today. Of course, such a bill is needed. However, I would like to point out that both bills conceptually do not provide a basis for food security to solve a land issue that is not resolved today in Ukraine. These bills refer to a number of laws on the food basket or on the subsistence minimum, on the Cabinet of Ministers and so forth. But there is no appeal to the earth! The earth needs to be made immediately on these issues. We urge that in the second reading, we refine these. As far as the bill is concerned. The great features of Project 8370 are, of course, the more flexible it is. And food security, depending on changing socio-economic and environmental conditions, takes into account the issue of taking into account the food basket, taking into account the food basket, counting the food basket, counting the amount of food needed and changing the income of individual social groups, the share of food costs in the overall cost structure. I would like to stress on behalf of the MP group that we support the thesis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u148	Please, Ivan Kirilenko, the Faction "BUT" is the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, I would like to address Gregory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik personally. Gregory Mikolaiovich, is this the bill you're initiating to support agriculture? I've already lost my medication myself. And what their fate is, of course. Unfortunately, the beautiful things you write are beautiful things, but where are they going? The State Budget Amendment Act has just been passed: 39 million to agriculture, 17 million to hardware. That's it, that's the answer. Minus 4 billion per cash register, to the village versus 2008. First. Two-and-a-half billion dollars for grain duty, for grain duty. 5 million are the needs of the state, 50 million are growing. Tell me, will motivation grow more? 8 million is the capacity to produce sunflower oil. We grow it from 5 to 6 million, no more. This year’s price came to 6,000 per tonne. This means that the sunflower will be sown all over Ukraine. Friends, I appreciate you writing these laws, but unfortunately, the reality of life is completely different. He's either going to be inbound, or he's going to be unresponsive. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u150	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u151	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Association for Clean Agriculture and a Safe Environment has long been working in this Queen and supporting the law that provides food security for Ukraine, which at least defines what it is. We also support the definitions that are relevant and the steps that are taken to increase the fertility of land and to create new technologies for deep processing, to reduce the chemicalization of land and to destroy that lobby that sits in the government and protects those who import pesticides and other pollutants that pollute our land. But we can't reach out to either president or the other. I am not saying to the Prime Minister, who is now properly retired. In fact, it takes him all the time to give a witness. Because we're humane, and we're not going to put him in jail, but he's going to keep on giving a witness, including why he doesn't accept deputies. And I wanted to offer micro-wave technology that allows families to increase their counterparts by 15 to 25 percent, which allows them to reduce their recovery terms, which allows them to make food available today and clean. But no one wants to see it. Why won't they see? Absolutely right today was Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, who said: "You've thought of it, Your Honor, you've set the grain on export; you've gone into the peasant's pocket yourself!" It's very serious, by the way. I'm going to vote for both projects: 8370 and 8370 Prime. – for any project that provides food security for Ukraine, I will vote and ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m1.u152	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'll put the bill to the vote in order to register. The proposal to accept as a basis, namely, the bill on the basics of food security in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8370, author – Mikola Kravchenko]] [[18:17:56]] For-53 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a proposal for adoption on the basis of the bill's draft registration number 8370-1. [[authors - Kaletnik, Tereshuk, Bort, Sidelnik]] Please vote. [[18:18:27]] For 273 Decision taken. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. Thank you.
