ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:14]] Cards were registered in the 351 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 6 September 2011. 12 issues of the agenda have been considered, as a result of their consideration: Four laws and one decree have been passed. Five bills were adopted on a basis, one draft decree was rejected. Dear colleagues, I offer your attention to the announcement. According to this statement and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of the Republic of Labunski Angelika Viktorovna from the membership of the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko – "Fathership". In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, honourable national MPs are given an average of 30 minutes for interventions by national deputies with proposals, statements, messages, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Basil Krawczuk, Faction BUT, Fatherland, please. Gregory Smythech will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u2	I give the floor to my colleague Tomenko Mikola Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u3	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the two reforms that the President spoke of yesterday, which ministers are talking about today, driving across Ukraine. This is about the so - called land reform. I read with great concern the interview or evaluation of the APK minister, who said that he had traveled all over Ukraine and had not found any argument against the creation of the land market and land reform. I think that our parliamentary hearings and more than 70 percent of the citizens who today are opposed to taking a moratorium on land sales are somehow not an argument for the minister. I want to inform you that today, in the very bread and land areas of Ukraine, there are groups of people who write down the names of socially vulnerable citizens who are willing to sell land quickly. And you can imagine if a radical scenario is implemented, and as of 1 January 2012, the land will become a commodity, I imagine what will happen in Kyiv, Cherkaske, Poltava and other areas where there is a major supply of Ukrainian black lands and agricultural land. So on behalf of the opposition, from the Fatherland faction, I want to warn the authorities that trying to launch a revolutionary market-based scenario is not just dangerous, but it can lead to a situation close to civil war, because my meetings in rural areas show that today the vast majority of people involved in agricultural production are categorical opponents of this rapid reform of land acquisition by several financial and political groups of Ukraine. The second reform relates to the so-called privatization that the President spoke of yesterday, which was carried over by the parliamentary majority yesterday, and I wanted to draw attention to it. The document the government gave us yesterday, which was carried over by yesterday’s vote, contains 675 enterprises that are excluded from facilities that are not privatized. I'm not going to talk about aviation business right now, we think it's absurd for military companies to be private. But what surprised me most? Maybe it's a dembel chord from the Ministry of Education and Science or some joint project from the Ministry of Education and Science, the State Department. Here is a list of all the major Ukrainian publications and printers. I wonder if the heads of district administrations, district councils, city heads know that all district printing and polygraph editions that have several hectares of land have large premises, are supposed to privatize with one of these decisions. I'll give you an example. This is the Ministry of Education offering to privatize, withdraw from the state order one of the largest publications of Kyiv Truth. What argument is there? It is written that the activities of this enterprise have lost significance to the general public. What, the papers don't print? Don't they print textbooks? What makes you think she lost? So I want to draw the attention of both the President and the Prime Minister that if this idea of clearing the Ukrainian polygraph sector is realized, we will lose any chance of competing with the polygraph of other states. That's why we need to review this bill so that the government can call it off and, in particular, the aviation industry and polygraphs will remain state property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u5	Gregory Smythuch refers to Gregory Kaletnik, a faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Allow me, on behalf of the entire Supreme Council, to thank our farmers, all the workers of the Ukrainian agro-industrial complex, who have made their work a worthy gift to the 20-year anniversary of Ukraine's independence. Today, crops of 11 million hectares have been harvested and 35 million tons of grain have been wet, 6 centers more harvest per hectare compared to last year and six million tons more grains have been collected than in the last year. Such greek oats, barley, and their yield also give rise to the claim that this year Ukraine will be not only with Greek bread but also with its own grains of all other species. In view of such a fine crop, Ukraine will fully provide for its inner needs and will be able to safely export grains that may total 23 million tons per year. So agricultural workers, the entire agricultural complex of Ukraine, have demonstrated that thanks to God, weather conditions and, as always, farming skills and responsibility, agricultural products are produced in quantities that guarantee not only food security in the country but also export potential, at least at seven billion dollars. But what I want to do is bring in some of the specific details of the situation that's going on, i.e. the wealth raised by the peasants, is not yet a guarantee of stability in the price of bread and onion products, because despite the lower prices of food wheat from the new crop of business structures and the owners of bread factories are not in a hurry to buy bread, a grain that would be sufficient for the harvest of 2012. The same tranquillity, unfortunately, and in a series of structures that would buy the grain needed for the production of animal products. A particular concern today is the behaviour of the grain exporters, the export has made up two million tons for today, not only in combination with this year’s possibilities, but even less than 300 tons than it did last year. So there are a few problems. The first question is probably what exporters, as always, want to take all they can. And the talk of taking away the export duties is probably holding back the export of the product. So I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers, if there's a possibility of taking them down, they need to be removed immediately. In summary, there is no basis in Ukraine for the price deficit in the country's market for grain and bread. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u7	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Next up will be Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u8	Honorable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens! The price of the oil market in Ukraine is unfortunately not comforting. You've all heard that the World Bank has reported an increase of $107 a barrel in oil prices, and political instability in North Africa and the Middle East is threatening its further expansion. This situation is extremely unfavourable for the Ukrainian economy, especially in view of the sharp increase in Russian gas costs, which experts estimate and Gazprom forecast can increase to $50. Five hundred dollars per thousand cubic metres is a threat to the Ukrainian economy. Unfortunately, gas prices are used by Russia’s management as a weight of political pressure on Ukraine. And this is directly linked to Ukraine’s introduction to the Customs Union. In this context, the MP's Reform for the Future calls on the government to take immediate priority action to guarantee the energy security of our state. First, we believe that it is necessary to decisively reverse the trend of reducing our own gas production, which, according to expert estimates, should be invested in this sector every year for 5 to 6 years at least one billion dollars per year. This amount should already be foreseen in the 2012 budget. Second, we need to speed up the construction of a terminal with compressed gas in the city of Odessa and clearly define the final deadlines for its entry into service. Thirdly, the government's approved energy strategy for Ukraine's development by 2030 must finally be implemented in 2006. And finally, fourth. We point out that we fully support President Yanukovic's position on raising the importance of energy impacts on Ukraine's coal sector. According to Ukraine’s geological coal reserves, it holds first place in Europe and eighth place in the world to meet the needs of domestic energy and industry for the next 300 years. 96 billion dollars that we spend on imported gas every year when we invest them in our economy and the coal industry have allowed us to completely replace Ukraine's gas demand with domestic coal in five to six years. I'd like to remind you of the Soviet developments that were introduced in 1986-1989 when coal dust was used as fuel, including for motor vehicles. Let us resume this practice. Then, coal plus almost 100 billion annual investments in the sector is the most realistic prospects for ensuring the energy security of our country. The Reforms for the Future faction urges the government to come to the realization of all the points we have listed, because Ukraine's energy security is a guarantee of a stable and prosperous future for our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u9	Mikhailo gives the right to speak to Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Andrew Pavlovsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies! Respectable citizens! The Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole is entering a very responsible stage in its development, which will depend on both socio-economic and social indicators of our future state and economy. In the previous period of 2011, thanks to our joint efforts, Ukraine's economy is showing a steady positive dynamic. Gross and domestic product increases to 5 percent, industrial production to 9 percent. At the same time, there is a huge array of systemic problems that have a significant impact on our performance. First, there is the threat of another wave of the global financial crisis, the complex problems of Erosona. Ukraine’s economy is up to 50 percent shaped by exporters and is still highly economically and politically dependent. We need to address the complex costs of energy carriers, primarily natural gas, based on the search for balance of interests of our partners, without yielding to our Ukrainian national interests. The faction of the Party of the Regions is confident that all these problems can be solved only by consolidated, responsible, pragmatic actions, both in Parliament and in society and the state as a whole. We need to do everything we can to adopt the 2012 State Budget at the right time, along with the State Economic and Social Development Programme, effective monetary, monetary and credit policies, deepening all the direction of structural reforms, and what is important is the quality and timely legislative provision of them. It's very important to adopt a law that we didn't adopt in the previous session regarding further support for small, medium-sized businesses, entrepreneurs, individuals. [[8521]] This is the basis for creating new jobs, this is the basis for improving the conditions of self-employment of our people. It is essential to protect our internal markets. Therefore, the policy of import schemes should be one of the main in the direction of both state and government policies along with Parliament. We need to create jobs on Ukrainian soil. I fully support previous speeches and we call on the government very responsiblely to give professional consideration to the situation of export duties on grain, which are making the financial situation of our peasants very much worse. This issue needs to be addressed in a balanced manner with the principles of the nation’s food security and, of course, the strengthening of Ukraine’s position in the world’s markets. In conclusion, we call for responsible, highly professional work in the interests of our society, economic development and the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u11	Andrey Pavlovsky's right to speak is passed on to Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of "BUT – "The Fatherland". Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u12	Good morning, Ukraine! If 20 years ago, when I was holding protests in the status of the National MP of the Soviet Union, and then Ukraine, if someone told me that 20 years later, I repeat, in 20 years, Ukraine would go into such a terrible darkness as it is today, I'd think it was either a man who's not full of reason, or a simple-to-just provoker. But it happened, it is today. Today, anxiety is actually touching, beating at the soul of every Ukrainian. What is happening to the country today? In fact, everything is destroyed, the judicial system is destroyed. I remember I brought an amazing man to the court of Yulia Timoshenko, a judge from the Federal Court of America, a Ukrainian of ours, sat for 20 minutes, took his head and jumped out. He says I can't do it anymore. This is Bogdan Futei, I call this name a wonderful judge. He says it's not a court of law, it's a horror of yours, winks at the judge all the time, rejects. Let me give you one example, I've been in court every day, one example I'll give you. The five experts who signed up for the State’s damage, two of them hid, the third one was nowhere else, one woman came, who had to admit that these conclusions were actually fabricated, all proved, everything was falling apart. Judge Kiriev spent two years serving as a judge in Berezan, and I know this town very well, because in that area I have a mansion, in two years of his judiciary, he's had two positive approvals, and those two people hanged themselves. Their first name is Baranko and Old-born. They know this, if they hear it in Berezan, they probably know it. And this is what the illiterate judge is charged with conducting such a colossal process. I want to say that the social situation of Ukraine has gone down. After yesterday's law, which was passed, today people need to know that, in fact, there will be no increase in your pensions, for 100 dollars at today's inflation, these 100 dollars will be eaten in far-off approaches. Now they still want to carry out land reform and beat, in Ukraine, from under your feet to rip out that land for which so much and blood to spill and all. Because I have hope, a colossal hope, last sociology shows, about 60 percent of the students are ready for resistance, active resistance, about 50 percent of the tail of the average generation is ready for resistance, and even an older generation that could no longer be relied on, almost 50 percent to resist. I end with that, boys, remember, they come into politics with a beautiful future, and they come out of it with a shameful past, and that's your past.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u13	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Jaroslav Kenzier will be performing, won't he? He's handing over the right to speech to Jaroslav Kendzior, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next is Michael Schershung.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u14	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", party for Ukraine. Dear colleagues, Ukraine celebrated its first 20-year anniversary. In a different way, Ukraine was celebrating a really big state holiday. Some celebrated it sincerely because they and their predecessors longed for an independent Ukrainian state, others cried for the ruined Soviet Union, and others wanted to pass on that day as soon as possible, August 24, because it caused them so much trouble. Those who survived the anxiety and hopes of the August 1991 HCHR, of course, expected that the first anniversary of Ukraine’s new independence would move today’s, the whole society to a serious conversation, to a serious analysis of how we had lived the first 20 years of Jubilee. Regrettably, the Supreme Council has set aside the last hour of the opening of the ninth session of the Supreme Council. And to be honest, just to put the twig in and to mention the passing of the date. Yesterday, speaking of a 20-year-old Jubilee, the President of Ukraine also spoke. It was hoped that it would be logical, having such a gap in the life of the new Ukrainian state, to say frankly and honestly why, what we had won in 20 years, why our neighbours who were with us in the Soviet Union, I mean the Baltic countries, today at their twentieth year of independence, they are already members of the European Union, they are members of NATO. They already have a completely different standard of living. Why in the 20th year of independence in the Supreme Council, in this room where an act of restoration of state independence was created, we adopt, ratify, the anti-Ukrainian law on the ratification of the Kharkiv treaties. We adopt a law on the red flag, we adopt a mass of laws that destroy the idea of 1991. It is not clear to the President and the Ukrainian authorities today that, as it were, moving in with Moscow is the death of Ukraine. And then we have to think about what we have to do to create a national Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u15	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Zablocký will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u16	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Yesterday, when speaking at the opening of a session of Parliament, the President stressed the decisive action of the state economy. For my part, I want to say that the line of determination needs to be followed in dealing with the issues of Chernobyl and Chernobyl. This path is clearly defined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on parliamentary hearing recommendations of April 4, this year. But its execution is ignored. The only successful step in five months was the MNP’s Ordinance on Dosimetric Passporting in 12 areas of Ukraine. And the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has recently informed a professional committee that they are not going to implement the decree and that it is not appropriate to develop a separate project of the Public Agricultural Program in polluted areas. As we can see, the individual government authorities are lazily and irresponsible in dealing with the issues of Chernobyl. But hundreds of thousands of living people, most of whom are children, are behind solving these problems. According to scientific evidence, 90 percent of the dose is produced by the consumption of milk from local production. In 120 populaces, milk is still produced, exceeding the national standard. Thus, children in these areas live in conditions where even workers in the nuclear industry are not allowed to work. We have to stop talking and finally solve the problem of radiation security of the population, thereby giving impetus to the economic development of the regions to which the programme should be directed, and refusing to develop it against the decisions of the Supreme Council can be classified as an official responsibility. Because to ensure the creation of cultural pastures, the introduction of mineral fertilizers, meliorants, and the repair of farmland production is not a big problem. That's why I'm again addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Mikolo Janovich, my proposals are not a pear-action, they're a concern for the people that officials answer to with silence. The time has come for us to be determined to exercise the authority of the State, to apply legal and financial mechanisms in solving pressing issues. Once again, I recall the President's words, "It takes decisive action to build an economy, so let's start with a solution to a small but important task -- to heal polluted areas." This means providing children with clean milk, clean food. There will be healthy children, there will be a future of Ukraine, there will be a state economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u17	The Zablotsky People's Deputies, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, today we are once again convinced and we see how our opposition, who very much like to call themselves, tells of a 20-year story and tells us today that the current power that is in force today is all the trouble, it seems, from it. Let us be just. Members of the opposition often speak from this rostrum and tell how they love Ukraine. But we were watching with you when on Independence Day the opposition forces were just trying to do everything they could to ruin this holiday. So where is your patriotism? Although on that day you stood by and were with the people and celebrated the 20th anniversary of the celebration of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that the 15th anniversary of independent Ukraine, the 16th, the 17th and the Party of the Regions did not prevent you from hosting this national public holiday. So you tell a lot of stories, you've been in power, social standards. In this room, you said for a year that if we introduced them, the whole economic situation would be balanced, but Victor Fedorovic came, became President, introduced social standards. You are talking a lot about populism today, but today you all know and understand that in a year and a half that President Yanukovic and the Government of Azarov have accepted, it is impossible to raise the State of Ukraine to the level that we have. That is why everything is being done today to raise the social standards of our constituents, our people. So yesterday, from this rostrum, the President said there were positive developments in the economy. We are not saying that all problems are solved, but they are today, there is an economic growth today, there is growth today especially in the construction industry. And I'm reporting to you today: for the first time in years, the coal industry has grown by ten percent, it works better than it did last year. So the miner’s day this year was on high alert. I thank the deputies who are reviewing the budget, and we've sent a billion and a half to the coal industry. We have raised this courageous profession, which is called "chachers" by thirty per cent wages. And today we see a return on coal. And at the solemn assembly in Donetsk, the President made it clear that such a sector, the strategic industry, would be under the constant control of the President himself. We are convinced of this, and we know that Victor Fedorovic, as Prime Minister of Ukraine, has given serious attention to the coal industry. And you all know that. That's why we have a huge face.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u20	Large, huge challenges lie ahead. And I would like to call upon all our colleagues and deputies to work fruitfully for the State of Ukraine and for the people of Ukraine. And I think we're gonna make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u21	Thank you. The national deputy Glazunov is transferring the right to speak to Luckom College, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In recent times, there have been tremendous claims about the current state of education in Ukraine, and for some reason they do not respond to reality, sometimes they are just offensive. So I'd like to say a few words about what we've been winning lately. A new school year had begun, and the introductory campaign had ended. I mean, in recent years, the introductory campaign has been accompanied by constant scandals, constant dissatisfactions, and miscalculations. This year's introductory campaign is said to have passed like clockwork. We have clearly analyzed all the shortcomings of the reception boards of previous years and have done everything we can to make the introduction campaign as comfortable as possible for the children and parents. In particular, we've extended the admission of documents to higher education institutions from 15 to 30 days, which have cleared up the questions of the queues, increased the number of premises allocated to the reception committees, increased the number of teachers who work, clearly identified and eliminated the notions of "post-adversarial entrance" for the winners of the academy, the small academy, the international academy, and clearly defined what they would get, let's say, 50 points first place, 40 and 30 respectively, so they put everyone on equal terms, reborn as "pre-university training" and thus determined that those children who in a year were identified, in which higher educational institution they wanted to learn, they were given an additional incentive, they were limited the number of higher education institutions in which they could submit documents, and they had not even passed the records that they had before. Today, this is clearly five higher education institutions and no more than three specialties. And when we used to have all the budget positions for fashionable so-called specialties, we now have this number defined as. Not more than 25 percent. Because you need to enter for knowledge, and then you need to receive the benefits that are assigned to you by one category or another. Thus, it can be noted that the Ministry of Education and Science, having analysed all the mistakes of previous introductory campaigns, has done everything to make the entrance for the students – well now students – as comfortable as possible. It's going to be analyzed -- again, it's not perfect -- the mistakes that were made in this introductory campaign, and I think next year there's going to be conditions that don't even need to be corrected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, we have a time to speak to the national deputies of Ukraine. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments, letters, and addresses of problems that have disturbed Ukrainian national MPs in their speeches. Dear colleagues! Let us now consider the issues set out in the September 7 schedule. We have two draft ratification laws, namely: the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the International Convention on the Standardization of Certain Rules for the Arrest of Ships. Is there any objection if we were to consider this issue in a simplified way? You don't? I'm voting on this proposal. Please be supportive. [[10:35:48]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the State Security Inspectorate for Maritime and River Transport Sobolevsky Grigorovich. Correspondent is the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's accession to the International Convention on the Standardization of Certain Rules for the Arrest of Ships. The international convention was held in Brussels on May 10, 1952, and took effect in 1956. There are currently 94 countries participating in the convention. The convention is a major international instrument regulating the arrest of ships. The Convention lays down the only rules relating to the arrest of vessels under the flag of the Contracting States under the maritime requirements within the jurisdiction of those States. The Convention contains a list of the requirements of the sea under which a ship may be arrested and sets a number of restrictions on the arrest of a vessel. The main advantage of participating in the Convention is the ability to arrest a ship only out of maritime requirements, such as damage caused by any ship as a result of a collision; the loss of persons or damage caused by any vessel or related to its exploitation; the rescue of a ship or cargo; the contract relating to the use or surrender of any vessel under a charter contract; the contract relating to the carriage of cargo by any ship under a shipping contract; the general accident; the maritime position, the towing, the craft, the salary of the captains, the officers, the crew, and so on. Ships under the flag of States that are not party to the convention may also be arrested on the basis of the national legislation of the country, which greatly increases the chances of arrest. Most European countries are participants in the above-mentioned convention, their national legislation either fully incorporates its position, or they adopt a national legal act based on the convention. Ukraine’s draft law provides for Ukraine’s accession to the convention with a warning not to apply the rules of the international convention to warships and other state vessels that are exploited for non-commercial purposes. The adoption of the proposed draft Law will help reduce the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u25	Yes, please finish. Do you have everyone? Thank you, sit down. Taras Viacheslavovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Our committee considered the convention at the end of the last session and made a unanimous decision. It is a case of surprise that Ukraine has not joined the convention for so long, which is absolutely beneficial to them. Ukraine is a maritime state. And we have already suffered serious damage on several occasions because of the imposition of arrests on certain assets of Ukrainian property abroad, including air and essential, in this case for this convention, our water vessels. The problem is that until now, any commercial corporate debt that arose, not even a government debt, could have been the cause of the imposition by the courts of third countries, sometimes completely unrelated to the sea, even the exit to the sea did not have, the arrest of Ukrainian vessels. This convention introduces very clear, accepted norms throughout the world that rigidly systematize relations between countries that have ships and that exploit them and those that want to arrest them. The limitations of arrests on ships are clearly imposed. For Ukraine this is a colossal benefit. Since we generally did not abuse our right to arrest foreign vessels, we often suffered. Entering this civilised normal system allows our shipowners, ship users to be confident that unwarranted arrests on our ships will no longer be admissible. This project received a positive conclusion from the Chief Research Administration, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Transport and Communications. Similarly, the Committee on Budgetary Questions stressed that it does not affect the revenue and expenditure portion of the budget. Please support the committee's decision to ratify this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, are there warnings? Who insists on the performance? You don't? Yes, I can see that. Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The parliamentary group "For the Future Reforms" will support the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the International Convention of Brussels in 1952. I would like to highlight a few facts. Today, there are two thousand 600 vessels in Ukraine under the flag of Ukraine, more than 80 tons of water and more. The average age of Ukrainian vessels is over 25 years. In line with the port rules of most European and American countries built for more than 15 years, ships have been banned from entering these ports. That's why 550 Ukrainian companies can't be serviced in these ports and work exclusively in the Afro-Asian direction. As a result, the number of vessels arrested in this market is increasing rapidly. According to article 8, paragraph 8, of this convention, a ship that is under the flag of the State that has acceded to this convention is not subject to the requirements of these port rules. That's why we fully support it, only because it'll take our ships away from the extra charges of arrest.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u29	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u30	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I took the floor to ask such a question. Now, from time to time, when ratifications take place in the walls of the Supreme Council, we point out that either a convention or another agreement to which 50, 100, more countries have joined is ratified or submitted to us for ratification 50 years or more after it was signed. The subject of the legislative initiative stressed that today 94 countries have joined the convention. Why is there no Ukraine among them? I don't think it's the fault of a particular person who reported here rather than a systematic approach to ratification activity. If documents are submitted for ratification to the Supreme Council for agreement on a convention or an international treaty, it would be desirable to have a certain system. Since the subject of the legislative activity that submits the ratification documents is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it may be necessary to ask questions before the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to look systematically at those documents of an international character, a contractual international character, where we do not participate. And if it is such a time failure at 50 years of age, it is obvious that they need to be handled more systematically. With regard to this concept, Taras Cranwell said quite correctly that it allows our ships not to be arrested by the courts of countries that have no bearing on the arrest of our countries, that is, through the courts of third countries. This convention does not allow that. There are requirements where only the country directly concerned can bring justice to the court in this regard. This is a positive one. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u31	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u32	And the last moment. It is certainly positive when it is clearly defined under which conditions a ship may be arrested. Because if that is not the case, the courts, the more third countries, perhaps interested, I do not know, but they may find their subjective circumstances to open the case. It's worth joining the convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u33	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue with the opinion of the previous speaker, Oleg Zarubinsky, that we have not been informed of the reasons why this 59-year ratification convention has not been considered for 59 years. And I want to tell you that my analysis and my practice show that it's not that simple, and it's not just happening right now. The very fact that the law is now proposed to ratify the convention with such a warning, I quote, "Ukraine reserves the right not to apply this convention to warships and other state vessels that are exploited for non-commercial purposes." We're not going to apply that. What about us? And here the new workers, they don't know, like most of the people's deputies, 110 of the vessels that sailed, walked the seas and oceans under the flag of the Black Sea Sailing, we had them hidden, hidden in the holding fund. They're under other flags, not deflated. What's left of them? I think we'll hear a report here sometime, but now they don't walk under state flags anymore. They will not be protected, including by this convention. And in general, we need to raise the authority of the Ukrainian State flag on ships. Most vessels, most companies don't keep the ship under the Ukrainian flag, because it's not convenient. Why is it awkward? And because Mintrans doesn't have brains, because Kabmin doesn't have brains, they don't stimulate it. It's stimulated by Belize, all the islands, and so on. And that's why Cyprus and everyone else has more vessels. This is a question that needs to be considered here after these ratifications. Me, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u35	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u36	And I'm finishing up what Oleg Zarubinsky said. We need to be given the warnings that were made by the ministries, because only the handbook says that individual ministries and authorities have written warnings. The MPs don't show these warnings. Either you have to put it off, or you have to give a warning here and give all the warnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to support the ratification of the convention. That is why I am voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Act of Accession to the International Convention on the Standardization of Certain Rules for the Arrest of Ships. [[Registration number 0216]] Please vote. [[10:48:28]] For 276 Thank you. The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! It is proposed that you consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Georgia on Air Connection. [[0220]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:49:05]] For 212 Decision taken. The reporter is the Head of the State Aviation Service, Anatoly Antonovich. Correspondent is the first Deputy Head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Taras Vejacheslavovich Czarnovil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You will be presented with a draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Georgia on Air Connection, which is designed to carry out the internal procedures necessary for the Agreement to enter into force. The bill provides for the draft law to be ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Treaty, which was signed on June 10, 2010. As a result of the meeting of the Ukrainian Government, a decree was adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 29 June 2011 on the submission for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of an agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Georgia on air connection. The implementation of the law does not require funding from Ukraine’s national or local budgets. The adoption of the draft law will ensure the establishment and functioning of a reliable legal mechanism at the international level for the implementation and development of interstate relations between Ukraine and Georgia. It will facilitate cooperation in air transport, tourism, and the further expansion of Ukrainian airline flight geography. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Georgia on Air Connection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u39	Thank you, too. I invite you to report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Taras Viacheslavovich Crnovola.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u40	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow members of the National MPs, this draft Law on the Ratification of the International Agreement was also considered at the end of the last session and was entirely unanimously supported by our committee. What about the agreement? This is the case when we improve our international documents. There are some contractual bases between Ukraine and Georgia for ensuring civil aviation, but they are imperfect. Now, based on the principles laid down in the new international instruments, we propose to ratify a treaty that is fully in line with all international norms, plus the bilateral interests of our two nations. This agreement introduces the gradual liberalisation of international airfare on a bilateral basis, allowing each party to increase the number of airlines designated to carry out regular flights between Ukraine and Georgia. In addition, the agreement gives the right to establish new conditions for allowing the use of air lines, for the execution of flights, and for their cancellation. Ukraine and Georgia will also be able to implement a mechanism for inspecting airlines to assess international aviation standards, to move from tariff approval procedures to tariff monitoring, and to restrict the involvement of aviation authorities in the pricing process. According to the document, the airlines appointed by the governments of Ukraine and Georgia will be able to make commercial arrangements for the joint operation of airlines. In general, this is a very well-marked, good document that is in line with the international principles of civil aviation, which is fully in line with those laid down in all other international treaties that are in force, including within the European Union. So this is a new additional step, and we ask you to support this ratification. There is no need to allocate additional funds in the budget. And all the interested parties, the committee and the Scientific and Experimental Authority also support this ratification. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, who insists? Please sign up to discuss this matter. Yes, put the names of the national deputies on the board. Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u43	Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u44	Fellows, it may be a surprise that the ratification of this document has taken so long. At the beginning, I'm sorry, it could have been ratified last summer, and we actually lost a year in relations, air relations between us and Georgia. I think we should just support this ratification, it's very convenient for Ukraine. And most importantly, the Ukrainians, God forbid they have money that they don't have right now to fly to Georgia and fly as often as possible, because if it wasn't there, but Miho Saakashvili took advantage of the revolution in the end, Georgia went through those very difficult moments of reform. And today, on the colossal rise and the economy, roads are being built, hotels are being built on the coast of the Black Sea. And most importantly, Nina Burjanadez, the opposition woman, she's much, perhaps even sharper than Julia Timoshenko, who criticizes everyone, literally on every turn, and the government, she's not on the stand, she's not on trial. They have their own television channel, the opposition in the Georgian Parliament has both the Freedom of Speech Committee and the Budget Committee, and the analogy of our Court of Auditors. Here are the results of their Trojan revolution. And here's the results of our orange with Victor Andriyovich, who actually led this to this state. Because of this, we have to fly to Georgia, and we need to set an example, because it is a colossal example and a colossal analogy. We have to vote in favour of ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u45	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Gregory Smythech will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u46	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm still going to go back to the subject that's being addressed, and it's about the air connection between the two countries that are really friendly. And as for this agreement, there are things in it that I think we should move to a certain extent to an internal Ukrainian connection, positive things. For example, what am I reading here? That contractual parties will do — listen, quote — consumer protection from use is not justified by the high or excessively restrictive tariffs associated with the abuse of dominant market power or the conspiracy of air companies. That's a great phrase. That's an absolutely fine phrase. And if we're going to an international level at this, if we agree that the primary is the consumer's right to fly for an adequate fee, despite the monopolies' interests, I think that the honourable Anatoly Antonovich would have to move these rules and you'd have to act as the subject of a legislative initiative through the Kabmin so that we in Ukraine would have the possibility that internal air connections were made by a monopoly, prices for tickets when. [[I know you understand this problem very well.]] are not controlled and which are often higher than prices for international connections. I think it's just unacceptable. That's why I took the floor to say it. As far as I'm concerned. I'm going back to the agreement itself, and I think that, apart from what's correctly written in the explanatory note, that this will contribute to the recovery of business relations with Georgia, there is an important moment here: the repair of communications and the further expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. And this agreement will make it possible to do that. Thank you. A positive deal, it's worth ratifying.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u47	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I didn't take the floor to support it. Of course it's a deal. We have to support her, and she'll be ratified. I'm sure. I took the floor to point out that it was Mr. Wheeler's report on the operation and operation of internal and external transports related to our airlines. Well, for example, I've been using our Aeroworld airlines on a number of occasions, and I find that insufficient attention is being paid today by the Ministry and the Committee to control the quality of the aircraft themselves. There's a ship that's completely broken by electronics, and so you're wondering how this plane can fly, that's the first question. The second question is why airplanes are used on our planes, or aircraft that have long been written off on the west and on their own. Countries? If any of you are using Lüfthanza, KLM, Delta or other aircraft that have flown across Europe or around the world, in no country, in any of this company, you will not see such scary planes that are being used by our airlines. I wonder why these planes are allowed to fly. And another warning that I'm paying attention to, Mr. Wheeler, in terms of ticket pricing, we have internal lines, especially in the south, in the summertime, tickets are more expensive than abroad to fly to any country. Why is this issue not under control? Why is this question ignored? Why is the Monopoly Committee silent? Why is the Ministry of Transport silent on this issue? So I think and I pay attention, and I think that we are. It's my MP's request to maintain the technical status of the use of aircraft in part of the safety of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u49	Please, Ruslan Knazievich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, here, in fact, is not to be talked about, we need to talk about the matter in essence. Because you look at the date of the signing of the agreement, it dates back to just June 2010. And until then, in fact, we had interair connections and there was no doubt that a treaty would have to be made by that time, since there was an International Hague Convention and no obstacles to properly carrying out such air travel. But in 2008, we remember that objective circumstances became, including continuing to sign a special covenant. The point is that previous airlines were not able to fly directly, but they were about to fly through the territory of our neighboring country. You remember that in 2008 the relationship between Georgia and Russia, respectively, became quite severe, which made it impossible for proper transportation. That is why this covenant guarantees that such things will not continue to happen. That's her point, and that's why she is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u51	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u52	and that is why it needs to be ratified today so that we do not continue to find ourselves in such a way that someone's demands in neighbouring countries make it impossible to communicate properly between friendly countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to ratify the agreement. I am voting on the proposal for approval of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of Georgia on Air Connection, Registration No. 0220. Please vote. [[11:02:22]] For 299 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the imposition of criminal responsibility for the abuse of Ukrainian national languages and languages]] [[Registration number 8092-1]] Short-circuited? Please, I'll put it to a vote. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[11:03:06]] For 224 Decision taken. Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Arsenij Petrovich Yacenuk, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Legal Protection of Viktor Dmitrović Sweden. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, with the coming of a new power, the word "violence" has become the main instrument in the work of the new power. Yesterday, they abused pensioners, reduced their pensions, and increased their retirement age. Then they abused taxpayers. They now abuse the language. And the law passed by the Party of the Regions on the principles of national language policy is a real abuse of the country, language, culture and history. What happens in the last period of time in education, when Ukrainian schools are closed, such as Donetsk 111th School, which was able to stand down and open this year, when Ukrainian textbooks are not printed, when the government authorities can't read or write in Ukrainian and any other language. This is, of course, an abuse of the country, of the people, of the State, of the culture and of the language. My law provides for the introduction of criminal responsibility. Criminal responsibility in relation to those who do not respect their nation, who do not respect their people, who do not respect their country, who do not know how to speak or what to say. So I ask you to uphold this law and express your position with regard to the ignorant, the hammocks, and the people who today seem to represent state authority in the country. They don't know how to run the country, because they don't really know how to speak, including in Ukrainian. Please uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u55	Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz, head of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I believe that such important bills for Ukrainian society, such as the protection of national language and the language of national minorities, should be considered in Parliament on a full programme, with serious discussion and appropriate decision-making. The Committee on Law Enforcement took up the bill submitted by the national MP, Yatsenuk, and made the appropriate decision. The purpose and purpose of the bill is to impose criminal responsibility for the abuse of the national language and languages of national minorities to prevent public humiliation or disrespect, deliberate distortion of Ukrainian or other languages in official documents and texts, to create obstacles and restrictions on their use for the purpose of educating people, citizens, regardless of their nationality, to understand the social purpose of the Ukrainian language as a national language and to respect the languages of national minorities. The draft law seems extremely relevant, as it is proposed that the drafters introduce amendments to such legislative acts as: The Criminal Code of Ukraine is proposed to supplement the new article 338 with the badge 1 entitled "Language abuse" and the relevant amendments are proposed to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. The Committee received many conclusions from State bodies and institutions, including the findings of the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Ukrainian Security Service, and the State’s leading legal institutions. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of this bill is the result of a review.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u57	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u58	However, after reviewing the bill, the committee considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on the first reading as a basis. In the committee, we believe that there are all necessary legal grounds for criminal proceedings to ensure the protection of Ukrainian as a national language and as a language of national minorities. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u59	Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for your position on the bill. Names of the national MPs, please. Arsenius Yatsenuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Yavorovsky faction "BUT is "The Fatherland". Next is Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u60	It seems to me that the bill introduced by our colleague Arsenius Yatsenuk is, to say the least crystal-democratic. After all, he speaks not only of the protection of national language, but also of respect, respect, and the language of national minorities. What we have today in Ukraine is absolutely not in line with any international standard. Please tell me: do Crimea officials, Crimea deputies, Crimea Ministers' offices, Crimea leaders know Crimean Tatar language? But no one knows it and does not want to, nor will they learn it, but they should know, because their territorial legislation defines three national languages: Ukrainian, Russian, and Crimean. Once again, they don't know Ukrainian or Crimean. Because of this criminal responsibility for the abuse of the national language, the 10th article of the Constitution for Ukraine today is archiving. When today Kostusov, mayor of Odessa, asks a journalist: please read at least one or two lines of Taras Shevchenk - answers: what are you laughing at? This is the mayor of a great city, once again, a millionaire who can afford such things. Just as the same inspector who refused to speak in English would, of course, be responsible. And I'm finishing up my speech as a professor of education, and I've recently heard a very nice illustration. The philosopher's worst dream is when Viktor Fedorovich writes a dictator under the dictatorship of Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u61	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u62	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Dear Ukrainians, colleagues, what is happening in the country today does not fall within any European or global framework. Today, schools in Donetsk are not simply closed, they are closed at the Plains. The pedagogical warehouse is being reduced. Today, teachers of Ukrainian language and literature will soon not know where to go in the country of Ukraine. Bills are being introduced today, which are actually the basis of this very international difference that many here are talking about. Today, everything is done with the hands of tobacco users, others, I will not mention them here, just to destroy the Ukrainian state. And how many political statements can be made on the part of the alleged guarantor of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President, regarding the release of such officials, who are hurting him, too. How much can we declare that we will by no means reduce educational institutions with a Ukrainian teaching system? What's happening today? Against the backdrop of those political repressions, against the backdrop of the courts that are now being held in the Pecher Court, where the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko, is being tortured by today’s system, by this authority, where Yuri Lucenko is being illegally tortured, other political prisoners, who are being quietly brought into Parliament by the introduction of similar bills. And who will be responsible for this? I think the time will come, and yet the answer will have to be given. That's why we need to support this bill, it's relevant, so no one's comfortable with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u63	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. The next one will be Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u64	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, honourable colleagues, I took the floor because two years ago he passed a bill that stipulated responsibility, criminal responsibility for the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people. In other words, for defiling the dignity of the Ukrainian people. I was not supported by a sufficient number of national deputies. I was worried, to be honest. Then I analyzed the situation. And I figured something out for myself. I understood the things that dignity is or are not. And language as the essence of the people is. Or who doesn't have that understanding, doesn't. They're obviously supposed to be in other positions. I now took the Constitution of Ukraine and found article 24, which says that there can be no privileges or limitations by signs, I say, I miss, and here is "the place of residence by language or other signs." The Constitution of Ukraine at the same time contains article 8, all of which is known to indicate that it is a law of direct action. So it seems to me, in all of, well, the progression and correctness of the fundamental idea of protecting Ukrainian language, I'm state language, protecting other languages as national minorities or, I'd rather say, different ethnicities in Ukraine are obviously not governed by the law of things that determine the essence of human beings and whether they are Ukrainian human beings. And I think here we need to rely primarily on Article 8 of the Constitution as a direct act. And all things related to discrimination, to the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian and other peoples, as well as to language signs, should be referred to in the Constitution as the Basic Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u65	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u66	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Vadim Koleschenko. Dear colleagues! Of course, I am surprised by the tone of the subject. Because tomorrow it seems that the electoral process is about to begin. This is the only way to explain what political pygmies today want to talk about. There is virtually no need to discuss this bill. Because my colleague Zarubinsky made it very clear. Article 24 of the Constitution states everything. For those who do not know our legislation at all, I remind those who want to add something to the Criminal Code, article 161 of the Criminal Code: there is already responsibility for inflaming hostility on the basis of national, linguistic, and religious grounds. This article should probably apply to those who have introduced the bill because our country is multilingual. And here the main thing is human rights. And these professional organizations that remind us that there can only be one language, that there's only one nation, and they keep telling us that we want to be in the EU, they don't want to be in there, they want to stay in their tents, they want to do something for themselves, and they want to do something for their house. Ukraine is a social, legal state for all citizens. We're on our way to the Council of Europe. And we will certainly have the rights of every human being, every language, every religion. We're not going to have a game. We are a pragmatic and civilized state. Therefore, this bill cannot be supported because this bill makes our people worse. The language must not be forced to love or respect, and the language must be promoted and its privileges, its potential. And what you do destroys and destroys the future of the Ukrainian nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our consideration of this matter. And we agreed with you, in principle, that such sensitive topics should always be considered in a delicate way or not, especially when we are looking at the issue at a political angle. Note that by 2005, we did not have such an acute language problem because politicians had not dealt with it. And language is the source, it's going to break through; language is competition. And we find it strange that in the country of Ukraine we should talk about the protection of the Ukrainian language. So I would ask that, your honor's colleagues, that we look at this decision in a calm manner, not in terms of terminology, who will speak louder against each other. Because I have to tell you that there must be a nation in the state, but on a political scale, and we are not confusing the nation with nationality. And let's not take the questions on the left hand side, the things that we're, well, not getting enough to deal with. And relative to each other's accusations. Dear colleagues, let's note that in 20 years of independence, 1.5 thousand schools have disappeared in Ukraine. We didn't notice that before, and now we blame each other because it used to be called optimisation, now it's called human rights. We're responsible for all of this. So let us not divide one another, but let us make the decisions we need. And I would like to ask, let's not stir up those subtle feelings in people: language, nationality, religion. You've already divided the church. We already have faiths that remind us of the political parties that pray. Let's destroy the country at all on this ground. So once again, I remind you that the conclusion of the committee is to take the basis. The conclusion of the Chief Research Administration is to reject the bill. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the imposition of criminal responsibility for the abuse of Ukrainian national languages and languages]] [[11:19:44]] For-82 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 30, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 30, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 11, People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 2. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Nationality Act is under review. [[on bringing national legislation into line with European standards]] In view of your request, I am voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Registration number 8090. Please vote. [[11:20:46]] For 203 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Andry Volodymyrovich Parubay. Correspondent is the head of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u68	Young Andrew, "Our Ukraine." Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Nationality Act was designed to improve Ukraine's current legislation in the area of obtaining Ukrainian citizenship by foreigners and stateless persons. Today, this trend is common in all countries of the European Union, because the problems that have arisen and arisen recently in France, Britain, have been largely due to the fact that in due course their citizenship law has allowed many people who have not adapted to these societies. In recent times, there has been a widespread trend in the European Union when there are bills that reinforce the requirements for citizenship in a given country. In some lands these requirements are particularly harsh. In these amendments, I have taken the basis of France's experience and, in fact, their changes to legislation that are now the most common in the European Union. Thus, the current law states that there is a requirement when citizens are given the knowledge of the national language, but there is no way to determine the level of knowledge of the national language. This, among other things, provides a basis for corruption, since lower officials can determine whether a person knows or does not know the national language at a sufficient level. The same applies to the knowledge of the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, in my amendments, I propose that a written test mechanism be put in place for the knowledge of national language and the basic provisions of the Constitution. Without a doubt, if a person is unable to acquire the language and knowledge of the Constitution, he will not be able to adapt to Ukrainian society. The same applies to the definition of the minimum living minimum that a person who claims to be a citizen of Ukraine should have. In this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u69	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u70	There are no political aspects in this law, this is the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to European legislation. And so I ask you all to support this bill. Both the profile committee and the expert board recommends that the first reading be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u71	Thank you. Thank you. Yuri Vasilovich. Please, the committee's decision
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, I will start at the end, recommends that the bill be adopted in the first reading. And even though we heard that from Porubius, which is touching, well, a little bit of such an ethnic problem, yet our committee has accepted it, voted in favour. Why? The point is that we have come out of the fact that for the world today, especially for Europe because of its democracy, ethnic diffusion is very characteristic. It also spreads to Ukraine. And in Ukraine we'll soon start talking not only about these national minorities that we've had, well, we've always lived and we know about, and we've fixed them in different laws, but also those that we haven't been and haven't been called. In this connection, a factor in adapting a foreigner to our society is of great importance to society. Is that what we're saying? That man is adapted to this society is being dissolved in this society. Those foreigners who don't adapt to it, in a legislative, linguistic, financial way, they're, of course, prone, well, to group by ethnicity. And they're formed abroad, and we're starting to have different ethnic clans. They're shaped by language, religion, national culture, they have their laws. They may not know our President, not know our laws, but know their leaders, their leaders of their criminal clans, and so do they. That's why we are. And here Andrew Parobius mentioned for nothing that various kinds of seemingly social conflicts in Western European countries, such as France or England, begin in those places where the clans, where these people came from other countries, live compactly. That's why we think that we need, as the European Parliament is doing right now, to promote adaptation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u73	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u74	In fact, the drafters propose only three positions. This is the first position to know legislation, including the Constitution and its specific chapters, such as the Citizenship Act, the Refugees Act and so on. And the second is to know Ukrainian. I'd like that. One second. Here some may be annoyed by the fact that the language of the State is Ukrainian. But the law does not say that there is no need to know other languages, such as Russian. So you know, it's going to be time, not much can happen in our country. And the third is the financial capacity at the minimum of living. That's why the author. We support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u75	Yuri Vasilovich, thank you. Respectful colleagues may need to exchange their thoughts. If you have such a need, please sign in. Yes, the names of the national deputies please be brought out. Victor Terrence, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u76	Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". Ukrainian legislation should clearly be brought into line with international legislation, European legislation, and in this context we only welcome any steps in this direction, it is clear. And that's why we are accordingly supporting the bill of the MP of Paris. At the same time, we well know that every law can only work when it takes into account the real things that happen in the state. And that's why no one will accept us in any Europe as long as we hold this court in the Pecher District Court, because, of course, the world countries -- both France and Italy, and Germany -- have already spoken directly that Ukraine can be a member, an associate member of the European Union only when the charges against Yulia Timoshenko are dropped. These are realities. At the same time, an outstanding linguist, Ponomarov, said that five teachers had left Azarov, that is, he could not be taught Ukrainian. They can't study him. Either he disrespects Ukraine, or I quote Ponomarov, "or so stupid." I say what Ukrainian professors say. Therefore, this standard, which is proposed by the Ponomarians, must be established, should be established, for all European nations have such a standard in their legislation. And here in front of me, a little bit, was a member of the famous political pygmies, one of the leaders of this political pygmy, who, of course, doesn't like this norm. But the anti-Ukrainian Pygmy movement is doing its job, we have to do our job. We have to go to Europe, we have to support bills like those in Paris, and we have to stand up for Ukraine, and we have to stand up for democratic principles, as civilised states do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u77	Ruslan Knyazevich has the right to speak. This right is handed to him by Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vadim Koleschenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u78	Thank you, Mr. Carpuk. Dear Head, dear colleagues! I'd like to support Mr. Paris and not politicize it. Because this is actually what the situation looks like. We have the Citizenship Law, which is, let us be objectively recognized, morally obsolete. And the standards that apply in the vast majority of this law no longer work, they are largely dead. One of these dead standards is the rule of the need to rule a person who wants to naturalize, to speak a national language. The law states that this level should be sufficient for communication. And who determines how such a person should be able to communicate, no one further prescribed any mechanisms? This is simply a way to develop a norm that is, unfortunately, declarative, to make it effective and alive. It's not because someone wants to do this right now in some way to politicize this issue, but because we have the prospect of being as closely integrated as possible into the European legislation that we're talking about so much. After all, we have to protect our nation a little bit from that point of view. Because, unfortunately, that is not the way Europe will do anything in the long run to create additional barriers, and that is absolutely logical and correct, even in the language and knowledge of legislation, to put it in their countries, and to leave Ukraine as a backdrop for those who, unfortunately, cannot get to Europe. We're still missing this problem. So let's now, maybe I agree, there are things that need to be worked out, because I'm deeply convinced that not only written tests, but probably the oral level of language should still be checked, because written tests don't answer such questions. As far as legislation is concerned, we need to look at, perhaps all the legislation, the whole of man’s array and not to know, but the fundamental Asians of the Constitution are bound to know, it needs to understand the state in which he wants to be a citizen. With the rest in order to accept in the first reading I see no obstacles, and for the second reading there is the prospect and the ability to properly refine it and make it the law that functions in any European civilised country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u79	Vadim Koleschenko. National MP Pavlovenko, faction of the Party of Regions, please. Then there's Stone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u80	Dear National Deputies! The members of the Party of the Regions will not support the project in relation to the following. The Constitution of Ukraine does not determine the conditions under which the naturalization of a person is possible, and therefore the choice of one or the other conditions is a matter of relevance and is largely due to State policy in the sphere of citizenship and demographics. The very fact that a written and oral test is carried out does not mean knowledge of the State language, for the results of such testing may vary, including with regard to violations of human constitutional rights. Because English is a prerequisite for the integration of foreigners into Ukrainian society, even if it is at the domestic level. At the same time, the language requirements and the Constitution of the State are not international standards because they are based on??The discretionary powers of the State. So the standards of the project run counter to other provisions of the law that make it impossible to adopt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u81	National Deputy Kamchatny, Reform Group for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! The parliamentary group of Reforms for the Future has supported and supported all the bills, regardless of who they are, whether by power or opposition, if they are useful, if they are necessary for our country. That is the position we have with regard to this bill. This bill is in line with world practice, especially the practice of European societies, it is necessary and we propose to support it. In our view, the introduction of such standards into the Ukrainian Citizenship Act will contribute to the formation of individuals who intend to acquire Ukrainian citizenship, respect for the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian people. At the same time, the bill needs some work. For example, to rule out subjectivity when conducting tests or oral examinations, this cannot be converted into an introduction to a higher educational institution, that is, minimum standards for the knowledge of State language and the Constitution of the State should be laid down in the law. In addition, the law requires a list of individuals who may not be subject to this standard, including those who have disabilities, blind, deaf, and who are listed there. But forgotten categories of certain citizens who, for example, suffer from diseases that interfere with the quality of language and the knowledge of the Constitution. In furthering such matters, this bill will be supported and necessary. We offer to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u83	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw your attention and this is an example of when this level of legislative initiative and problems should be resolved jointly and by the opposition, by the authorities, and more importantly, I will say that, with the participation of the Bureau, the law enforcement agencies. Because my experience with associations of others, with societies of national and cultural nations, shows that they themselves understand how difficult the problem is today with acquiring citizenship. The first problem is that the law is being completely violated today. So go informally to the Kiev market or some other market, and you will find that there are companies for the registration of fake foreign marriages with employees, with women employees of this market to legalize foreigners working in this market. You can quickly understand how many people from such uneasy countries come to Ukraine in one sport and one package. And they become Ukrainian citizens. With all due respect to them, well, it's about to get this catastrophic scale. There are local courts in some regions that can provide you with information for money that you have lived in Ukraine for five years, and this man has lived for three months, for example, in Ukraine. And that's how it's done in the practice of acquiring citizenship, and we have a mass of people, the so-called trading element, I'd say. Yeah, they're here to trade, and they live somewhere near the market. So in fact, this is a very systematic approach, not just to a language that's important, but to a general system of citizenship. Similarly, there should be a stricter standard of legitimate sources of existence. What do they live for? So these people have to have financial support, they have to, there, account for some of the costs, like all over the world, and so on. So I would suggest that our Zarubinsky committee, perhaps involve professionals in this area and think about how systematically, on the one hand, to uphold the law on citizenship, on the other hand, to improve it so that we don't get the explosion, because we have these enclaves in some markets, enclaves of small states where people are quick enough to help each other. So it seems to me that this must be a more systematic work with all the good ideas that our committee, together with the law enforcement agencies, would run with the government, and then take some joint, joint initiative both to the government and to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u85	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, 1 minute from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u86	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. We will support this bill, the faction of the People's Party. But that's not what I'm talking about. Mikola Volodymyrovich, you have raised an important question regarding the acquisition of citizenship. I can tell you honestly, you know, I'll objectively tell you, maybe earlier, there were things when you can use fictitious help to think that there are five years of human beings. Perhaps it was still massive, and so it was when fictitious marriages and so forth. Now I can just testify that as a member of the Ukrainian Presidential Commission on Citizenship, so carefully, I emphasize that word, all the documents of those who claim to be citizens are carefully considered, with the involvement of various departments, including experts from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And in most cases, well, I think there might be some precedent. But things don't go through anymore. About the people you say in the sports costumes that stand there, ask them, they're not Ukrainian citizens. You know, it's different things. They may be present, including legally, in the territory of Ukraine. But they don't have citizenship. It's very difficult now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There's a problem. And we should obviously see it and look for ways to respond to it, especially in view of the way our fellow countrymen are treated with Ukrainian passports. So that we don't have problems that some countries have. So I'd like to make a decision. Dear colleagues! The committee's offering to take it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Nationality Act, please vote. [[on bringing national legislation into line with European standards]] [[Registration number 8090]] [[11:39:23]] For-129 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Regional Party – 6, "BUT – Fatherland" – 37, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 41, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 5. Okay. I'm betting on voting for re-reading Bill 8090. Please vote. [[11:40:03]] For 116 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing draft laws on the recognition of certain laws of Ukraine that have become invalid, registration number 8569, 8658. In general, if there is no objection, we could do so: a report from the committee and vote and everything. But let's do it in a simplified way. Please, I'm putting this motion to the vote. [[11:40:50]] For 197 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Helen Juryovna Šustik. The reporter is Dmitri Yuriovich Špenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u88	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, today 75 days of political dispute over Julius Timoshenko. This debate over the leader of the opposition is marked by systematic and gross violations of human rights and disregard for the law, the Constitution, and morals. And all of this was made possible by a quiet court coup that took place a year ago. An update by the majority of the Law on Justice and the Status of Judges of Ukraine was not a reform of the judiciary, but rather an instruction from the capture of the judiciary. The law, which depends on the availability in Ukraine of the rule of law, has resulted in a total violation of the fundamental provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine: the limitation of the statute of limitations, the terms of appeal and appeal, the introduction of an open non-constitutional way of appointing judges to administrative positions by the Higher Council of Justice, although the Constitution does not grant such a right. As a result, 163 judges have been changed. The process of assigning judges to the administration is excluded from the field of judicial knowledge and personnel decisions are essentially taken by the Bank. The rotation of the frame is traditionally from east to west. The status of the Supreme Court of Ukraine has been reduced, and it has essentially been destroyed as a judicial body. By knowingly ignoring the Constitution, people were deprived of the opportunity to approach the highest judicial authority directly. Under a particular situation with Julia Timoshenko, the majority accepted the same unconstitutional changes to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, which allowed the court to limit the time frame of the case, which was done in person for Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. That's why we're offering to admit our own mistakes, to admit they've lost their validity, these laws, and to start a real court reform from scratch. Don't complain about the jail and the amount. Today you are dealing with the judges with political opponents, the only leader of the opposition, and tomorrow you can be the victim of your own legislative mistakes. The same option has been applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u89	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u90	A similar version was applied to the abolition of anti-corruption laws, so the Supreme Council has experience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u91	Yes. Thank you, too. Have a seat. Mr. Dmitry Yuriovich Sphenov, head of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u92	Bill 8579 was considered by the Justice Committee at a meeting on 6 July 2011. The authors propose that the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges and the Law on Amendments, 218, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the Advocacy of the accused, the defence counsel. I recall that the bill on judicial administration and the status of judges, which was adopted more than a year ago, was a decisive step in the reform of the judiciary and introduced major changes in judicial reform. Article 218 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure was amended in April 2011. These changes give the court the right to set a time limit for the examination of the case if the accused or his defence counsel delays the trial. The authors consider and refer to this law. is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Here's the thing. The right to determine the conformity of the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution belongs exclusively to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. People's deputies are not entitled to such rights, but may, however, appeal to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The bills proposed by the drafters were radical, unfounded and could lead to gaps in the judicial regulation of all laws. He also wanted to say that draft 8658, as in the previous bill, referred to the non-compliance with the Ukrainian Constitution and suggested that the Act on Amendments to Certain Laws should be recognized on that basis. As I have already noted, the Ukrainian people's deputies are not entitled to comply with the laws of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Constitution. The only body of constitutional jurisdiction is the Constitutional Court. I also wanted to pay attention. that some of the amendments made to the Act to amend certain legislation were under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u93	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u94	The Constitutional Court. A decision of the Constitutional Court of 16 July 2011 was rendered. I also wanted to say that the Chief Research and Expert Office does not support the bill and the decision of our committee was not to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u95	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues! Obviously we need to discuss this issue, I see. Please sign up. Put the names of the national deputies on the board. Olena Shustik, then Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A year has passed since the new rules were in force in the judiciary. And this time has shown that the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges has nothing to do with the real judicial reform declared by the authorities. All of us are now reaping its consequences. The ship’s system works manually, has a dependent and obedient court. In Ukraine, such a separate branch of power as a court is virtually gone. With the hands of the judges, they try to remove the main political opponents. The trial of Julia Timoshenko is a vivid demonstration of this. The case is heard every day for 10 or 12 hours. In Tymoshenko, there is no way that lawyers can prepare for the trial. The court denies the party to the defence of the involvement of key materials in the case, which are in the interest of Julia Timoshenko, and fully prove that the case has been falsified. The court allowed only two witnesses of 30 of Timoshenko’s lawyers and questioned all 39 witnesses of the charge, thus equality and competition in the trial, and the case was still falling apart. Julius Timoshenko is accused of allegedly preparing the directives himself, signing them, stamping them to Kabmin and personally handing them over to NAK Naftogaz, but the court finally found out that none of these actions was done by the ex-Prime Minister. It's not Timoshenko's signature, it's a facsimile, a seal that only Kabmin's co-workers could have placed on it, but the text of the directives was transmitted to Oleg Dubini by the ex-Minister of Fuel and Energy, George Prodan, who confirmed it before. All this legal impunity and permissibility of giving birth to unconstitutional laws under the form of judicial reform. Therefore, honourable colleagues, voters, our political power has taken such a step — the repeal of unconstitutional laws, laws that do not reform but destroy justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next is Michael Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I refer to you in connection with the seemingly very simple bill, which is just two points: to recognize that two laws have been lost. One law on the judiciary, and when it was passed, I went out on this stand with an alternative project, proposed a bill, and said that this bill would break the judicial system that was written by "headless riders," those people who had never worked in this system for a day. Now you've found out what the court system is turning into. Today I've spoken to distinguished regional deputies, they've said honestly that they're preparing for trial in the future, they're preparing and they're doing the right thing. Because we created a legislative basis for repression ourselves. And in discussing these issues, these laws with the well-known judge of the Supreme Court, the longtime national deputy Volodymyr Moses, we correctly asked one question to each other: and please tell me, how much time does it take for the judges to study the case? Multitomal, 200-300 volumes that were being sewn there by Timoshenko. Is it not obvious that if a judge, such as a ignorant woman like Kiriev, exceeded his authority, deliberately went beyond his authority and committed a criminal offence, that is, illegally taken into custody by a person who is to be examined, and at what time? Why doesn't the Constitution work, why doesn't an appeal and a cassation appeal work in this case, why did we specifically adopt the Law on the Limitation of Time? Has this ever been done before? That is why we need to destroy this legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u99	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u100	And at the end of the day, I'd like to say that the Science and Experimental Authority didn't just say that you can't take the law, it said that, yes, there are questions about these laws, so, well, repressive laws, but at the same time, you have to propose other laws. That's what the Science Administration said. So I'm proposing to the authorities right now, sit down, and think about not having such a thing against you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u101	Thank you. Welcome to Vadim Kolesnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. The right to speak is given by Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u102	The Party of the Regions faction, Vadim Koleschenko. Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'm going to ask a rhetorical question: who's going to stand up against the slogan "The Bandit is the prison." No one's against it? However, this slogan has long been kept under the dome of our esteemed Supreme Council. But the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic, has just started a serious, severe fight against corruption, official abuse and those who attempt to cover the criminal activities of previous members of our State. [[B in m in s a l in]] Of the speeches you have heard here, you have understood that the people of Ukraine are respected, that there is no point in amending the laws. There is an attempt to remove the criminal responsibility of former officials of our State. But today things have become clear and clear. This bill is not in conformity with the law. Because it is only necessary to declare a violation of the Constitution in the Constitutional Court. This time. We also have no right to assess the proceedings in the Timoshenko case because the Constitutional Court has already spoken on this point. That we have no right to intervene in consequence, especially in the judicial process. The verdict will be either justifiable or incriminating, but it will be decided by the competent judicial authority. And none of us is authorized on behalf of the State to assess the judge or the violations they consider to have occurred in the trial. Finally, I want to complete and complete the main one, saying to Sharapov, "The thief must be in prison." I don't think anyone would mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u103	Dear National Deputies! Please. The discussion is over, I will then make it clear in which order I will put the motion to the vote. The first proposal will be based on acceptance. If there's no support, we're automatically talking about the bill being rejected. And this will be in line with both the Rules and the content of the discussion that has taken place. So make a careful decision. I am voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft Law on Recognition in such a way that certain laws of Ukraine have become invalid. About acceptance as a basis. I said. Dear colleagues, take down the vote. I just broke the sequence, called the first bill second. That's why I'm betting. Did you get the vote? Therefore, honourable colleagues are voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis for the draft law on the recognition of certain laws of Ukraine as having become invalid. [[Registration number 8579]] Please identify yourself. [[11:55:44]] For-73 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. The Regional Party is 0, "BUT" is "Fathership"-41, "Our Ukraine is National Self-Defense" is 29, communists are 0, "Reforms for the Future" is 1, the People's Party is 0, non-fractional is 2. Obviously, dear colleagues, there is no need to put the first one on the table again, for there will be no votes. Is there no objection? The bill was then rejected. I'm betting on a second bill, and where is he? I'm looking for it, now 8658, for a bill of recognition such that some laws of Ukraine have become invalid. I'm betting on a vote on the bill's adoption as a basis. [[11:56:57]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Thus, respectable colleagues, two bills rejected. [[Registration number 8579, 8658]] Ladies and gentlemen, could we consider another bill, then take a break, no objection? Come on, I've got a request of this kind, Your Honor, and a colleague of the reporter is asking us to go to a meeting. I'm going to put this issue to the vote on a reduced basis. In summary, we'll consider and then we'll call a break. Please vote. [[11:58:01]] For 208 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u104	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The tenth church, the first stone church of the Kiev Russia, was built by Russian and Byzantine masters in 988-996 to celebrate Christmas. In this church, the great prince of Kiev, Vladimir, was buried, and the mighty princes of Olga, who were transferred there by Volodymyr, were preserved. [[Large]] Today, under the earth, the foundation of the original Decade Church, which has mastered the spiritual acquisitions of the past, has played a role for our and future generations as living witnesses of centuries - old traditions. According to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the remains of the foundation of the Tenth Church are a monument to the archaeology of national significance. In addition, the historical monument is protected by UNESCO. At the direction of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Kyiv City Council held a competition for the concepts of conservation and museumization of the foundation of the Decathed Church. Despite the direct prohibition of international and Ukrainian legislation to carry out any construction on the territory of historical monuments, the concept of the winners???????? envisions building on the site of a unique monument to the new culture of one of the numerous denominations, namely, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate. At the same time, according to representatives of the Orthodox Church of the Kyiv patriarchate, the Decade Church is to be rebuilt and handed over to it. The entire period of the temple’s existence from the 20th century, when it was before it was destroyed, was the temple of the Kiev Church. The Moscow patriarchy began in 1589, centuries after the temple was destroyed. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u105	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u106	So the attempt to start building on this site means that the interfaith situation in our country is getting worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u108	By purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u109	Well, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u110	The purpose of the decision is to ensure the preservation of the value and the preservation of the authenticity of the public record of history — the foundation of the Church of God, the Decade, and the non-admission of interfaith conflicts. I ask the deputies to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u111	Thank you. Correspondent of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u112	Few nations in the political and ethnic sense have such a unique memory of us and of the Ukrainian people. It's really amazing. If the Americans had, say Sofia, Mikhailovsky and so on, you could imagine how proud they would be of all of this. Those false passions that are now taking place around the remnants of the Decathary Church are likely to impress every conscientious one, so even I said, not necessarily a super patriotic soul. The committee I presided over made an exit meeting. We studied that question and, of course, we were just impressed by everything that was going on there. At night, the wagons were taken, and it was not known who agreed to do so. They've come to a standstill. Some time later, a small wooden church was established there. It's literally a few meters from the Decade's, from the foundations of the Decade's Church. There's a lot of versions to preserve this, there's an option to leave a museum there so that people can see the rest of these foundations, these walls. On top of that, it could all be covered. It all is, but no one wants to do it. Nobody wants to do that, I say again. Today, by the way, I'm a fan of the fact that we have all religions. And the authorities must support everyone without exception from the religion. What the Moscow Patriarchate is doing there today is actually building his church without any permission. Because of this, the bill, the ruling that was passed by our colleague, is very relevant. And there's no politics here. We just have to protect this unique that we have with you. If we don't, he'll be lost. And on our generation, our Supreme Council will be filled with shame, shame, and shame if such a monument disappears! Let's check you out again. Although, I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u113	Is there a need to discuss this? No, well, there's over there. Let's sign up. Please sign up. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u115	Viacheslav Kirilenko is entitled to speak from a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u116	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. I'm backing my colleague's decision-making project because it solves a lot of questions. Well, there was this scandalous, essentially, story about the construction of the new Decade Church. I emphasize the new word because all the memory keepers, all the archaeologists, the whole community that is interested in this question, say in one voice that there is no reference to the historical truth that the Decade Church really looked like. So this is about building a new church on the historical foundations of the Decade Church. This means that conservation legislation, both national and international, will be violated. This means that the authorities, both Kyiv and Central, are ignoring hundreds of protests that are already directed both to Kiev and to central power by public organizations, by the supporters of Kiev, its cultural environment, by religious religions, by politicians, by public figures, by leaders and scientists of the Institute of Archaeology. This means that the second, as a result, problem around the foundations of the Tenth Church will arise as a problem of interfaith opposition, because it is so complex that in Ukraine there is now one State Church – the UPC of the Moscow Patriarchate, regardless of the fact that only Orthodox religions are large in at least three of us, well, unfortunately. This means that preferences will be given to one religion and the oppressed rights of other religions. By every religion, believers, laymen, and all those who are brought into this situation in one way or another. This means the tension in the heart of Kiev. I went to the D.A.'s office on this question, and I got the answer that all of these were illegal, those wagons that were standing there, and there were the appropriate prescriptions, but the question is not being solved. That's why we need to vote on the order of Jojik and have Parliament intervene in this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u117	Olena Bodnar, please. Andrew Schlell. Then there's Yuri Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u118	Dear national MPs, distinguished chairman, respected TV setters, radio listeners! This question is not really as simple as it seems at first sight. It would seem that a new authority came, I emphasize, and it decided to destroy the shrine, the Ukrainian shrine located in the center of Kiev, and in principle the entire city of Kiev was built around the Decapolis. Why are you here to be surprised? It's the natural movement of today's power. They sleep and see the destruction of all Ukrainian, the destruction of Ukrainian spirituality, the destruction of the Ukrainian Church, the destruction of Ukrainian culture, the destruction of Ukrainian language, so this is a sequential step. Don't be surprised. It's just surprising that they're not just destroying, they're the site of the Tenth Church, I understand, the glass and the concrete are going to build the temple of the Donetsk or the Russian, I don't remember any more. But anyway, it's going to be something that's going to double-cross, double-cross Ukrainian history. Because, in fact, this step is motivated only by the humiliation of the Ukrainian nation’s knee to the ground. That's simple and simple. And let me remind you, the Bolshevik churches and representatives of the Party of the Regions were destroyed, and no one else did. The German-Fashistic invaders, these invaders, who are fighting intensely here, have not allowed themselves to destroy any churches. The Mongols led their horses to churches, the Bolsheviks destroyed churches, and representatives of today’s authorities are trying to destroy not just the church but our spirituality. And you have to admit it, go out to this rostrum and say it's convenient for you, because the toothless ones will lie beneath you more firmly. That is why we need to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u119	Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u120	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! This does not tell the whole truth about what is happening on the foundation of the Tenth Church. It is not said that the foundation of the Decade's Church has for many years been the foundation of the stone that is being carried out by the still-registered orange power of the so-called RUNvira community, the native Ukrainian people's faith, created by Hitlerian officer Sirenko, and a member of that sect was the wife of the previous President. This will be the best foundation for a new year, as today stands and the Mikhail Monastery is pleased with its golden domes, as today the Peacebuilding Council of the Kiev-Pecher laureate, which has also been in ruins, is being revived. It is better that the temple of God be there than that of present - day Gentiles who take their origins from Hitler’s captors. That's the whole truth. With regard to Kiev Patriarchate's claims on this foundation, I wish to recall that Kiev's Patriarchate arose in 1992. And the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate, as you like to say, is the Apostolic Holy Church, and the members of this religion are sent to Aphon. And you're not being released to Afon. The people of this religion are sent into the Temple of Christmas and into the Temple of the Lord, and they serve there with the Greeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u121	Finish up, please. Dear colleagues! Only the faction was already on the scene. Dear colleagues, let's go to battle. Simple. Paul Silent, one minute from the faction. They've already spoken from our Ukraine. I'm begging you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u122	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Well, the thing is, everything that's just been created as a new mythology by a member of the Party of Regions, well, it doesn't fit in any of the historical or other shores. So I want to ask the question, do we really want to preserve all the traces of the greatness of our history, the origin and creation of our new cultural historical paradigm when Ukraine adopted Christianity, Ukraine-Russia, when the great princes brought here the sanctuary from Byzantineia when they started building the first temples. And can we give up today under "Russian Peace," this very pop of Cyril Gundiyaeva, who wants to expand the sphere of influence and really put his knee down, as we just said before me, to press his knee, as Andrew Schlell said. Or we want to be independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u123	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u124	and historical, to have your history, to preserve these monuments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u125	Honorable colleagues, discussion of the subject. Dear colleagues, it's over. Well, now we're going to have a fight. Please! You've been acting out of factions, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, please! Let's move on to the agreed position. Dear colleagues, let me offer you a compromise solution. I have to remind you that President Leonid Kuchma, in his own time, issued a decree for the restoration of the Decade's Church, but the scientific and scientific environment has convinced that this decree cannot be implemented because the damage will be greater than what we have today. Because history shows that sometimes debris and debris are much more valuable than new buildings, which will be beautifully written down, then they gave up the idea. Therefore, if you take this draft decision and carefully read its paragraphs, it does not stop the construction. I'll read you, "listen to the information." When? We don't know. Next, "approach to the Attorney General's Office, investigate" is very nice. "The Cabinet of Ministers is to report immediately on the progress of implementation, the work of preserving the remains." If we really want to have no opposition, we need to make one decision from one point: commit the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ban any building, search for work to the final expert conclusions and to agree with the scientific community, for example, to start with the Institute of Archaeology, which is definitely against, to the best of my knowledge, this construction would be a decision. We're just doing what we're doing right now. So the proposals for two of these are, I think they have to reconcile everyone, or we're voting this resolution now and I see that she won't get the votes, or, if you agree, we'll assign the legal authority, they'll deal with it from one point and we've made the right decision, anyway that's how I see it. So let's do this, maybe I'll put this resolution to a vote, see what is the potential of support, but then we'll make, if there's no objection, this decision from one point. And it's going to be right, and it's not going to be in favor of any part or any other. Well, you have to think that we, what we do and you understand very well when we issue an order, you could insist that that order be enforced. Then we had a discussion and it was canceled and it's not about any religion. So how will we proceed? We're supposed to make this decision, right? We've talked about it, right? Is that what I understand? So let's put it this way: I'm going to now make a proposal to take this decision as a basis. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft decree to ensure compliance with Ukraine's security legislation. [[concerning the non-admission of construction works in the area of the monument to the archaeology of the national significance of the City of Vladimir the Child, of ancient Kiev with the foundations of the Decade Church]] [[12:15:48]] For 112 The decision is not taken. So, dear fellows, I suggest we prepare a draft of the Order. I'm asking you to give us such an assignment, and we're going to agree to it with everyone, and we're going to discuss it. And next plenary week, let's say next Tuesday, when the plenary week comes, let's make the right decision. I think it's right. And then life will show. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a recess until 11:00. Excuse me, in 12 hours, 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue our work. Please make an announcement so the deputies will be invited to the session room. Dear colleagues, we now have or should consider a draft decree granting the Greek-Catholic Church the status of a repressed church. [[Registration number 7104]] At the same time, I received a letter from the faction, as well as from the committee, and from the author. The essence of these references is that they are asking to defer consideration of the matter. Motive or Motivation: There is a need for further reconciliation of individual project positions. What will be your will, fellow believers? There's a first suggestion: if there's no objection, we can automatically postpone it. If there is a objection, then we will vote on the transfer. The proposal to postpone consideration of the matter. Is there no objection? None. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now need to consider with you a package of legislative initiatives that propose the marking and veneration of different kinds of dates as well as historical persons. We discussed this during the Conciliation Board. To bring together the consideration of all these bills. I'm going to count the numbers. Registration numbers: 8589, 8590, 8591, 8592, 8593, 8594, 8595, 8596, 8644, 8646, 8647, 8648. Give the author the opportunity to report these projects within 10 minutes, if questions are asked within five minutes to ask questions, they will be answered. Then invite the factions to express their position on these legislative initiatives, to vote separately. No objection, dear colleagues? Then we agreed on the position, so first 10 minutes of the author’s report. If you have a question, five minutes to answer, and also in general from the committee, the head of the committee is within 3-5 minutes. Will that be enough? After that, if there is anything to say, the faction speaks and we vote separately. We're done. Then please, Peter Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u127	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! In general, the purpose of this series of decrees was to mention those great geniuses of our world and spiritual civilization. And perhaps their life example will serve for us today, both for our leaders of the state, for the Supreme Council, and for the average citizen, by some behavioral changes, lines of conduct, assessments of his life. So these participants are mostly up to a thousand years old, but the truth is, after that time, it broke through and stayed on those profiles. Let us look at them and remember these dignitaries. If we're talking about the first project, the Epraxia of the All-involved, then it's said that its place in history is the Empress of the Holy Roman Empire, the wife of Henry IV, the very rich woman of Europe. Keep in mind that in those days there was democracy, not aristocracy, in the Holy Roman Empire. So the involvement in the court of the Roman Empire, the German Empire of the daughter of the Sovereign of the grandson of Jaroslav and the great grandson of Vladimir Eupraxia is of great importance, and they thought it was blood, which was the genes. But anyway, think about it, it's not like marriages are just, you know, so weddings, weddings. No, these are military political alliances, which were equal partners, because at that time the Kyiv state was equal to the Byzantine Empire. That's why Epraxia. Saint Anthony and Theodosius, who founded Lavra in the 1960s, said that Andrew the First, the High Priest, who came to our land, said on these same hills that look upon the mountains of this land, that the grace of God would come down upon them, and here the truth that would enlighten and give them, would pass this truth from Carpathian to Alaska. And Antony, who had already served on Afona, came to these mountains, and Ilario Archimandrith had already dug a cave for him. And the great life of this great institution of monasticism began, which wasn't in the parameters that I gave you geographically. By the way, God’s Mother Antonia and Theodosius showed the construction site of the congregation of Sperm, for which the chairman spoke today about where to build it. Directly, the place was burned with lightning, and these are the great holy episodes that accompany our lives. That's why St. Anthony. So Ilario, who dug the first cave in which Antony, Ilario Archimandrith, was the first ethnic Ukrainian to become the capitalist of Kyiv, and he is holy. There were Serbs, there were Greeks, there were Syrians, by the way, the first Metropolitan Michaelo, Ilario, and along with Jaroslav this correspondent couple of secular and spiritual powers showed the world the greatness, the power and peaceful life of the Kyiv prince. His work, "The Law of Moses and the Grace of Our Lord Jesus Christ", which stands next to Jaroslav's first Constitution, "The Truth of Russia." And these two works, actually, Ilario's work is our Sinaitic codex. And "Russian Truth" is our first Constitution. And that was 1040 years. That's why, Ilario. Dmitri Rostowski, when we read the Bible and ask who else has not read it, we ask: What should we continue to read? It's recommended to read. Dmitry Rostowski, Jaroslav and Novgorod Metropolitan, author of The Life of the Saints. For 20 years, he wrote this great, 12-dumb, "Holy Life." Nestor The chronicler had failed in 1113 in the first century, the 19th century, the acquisitions that Nikon had created, say, in 1073 from the creation of the world to the day. Asuld’s chronicles, Jaropolka, were well - known. And in 1113, Nestor the chronicler took this whole thing down, all this luggage he took down and summed it up. But there was also the Kyiv chronicle. And these chronicles, 100 years later Galico Volinsky was created and a general ethnic polyphony of the whole country was created. These are big milestones, Nestor the chronicler. We do not refer, again, to the marriage of Jaroslav, Anna Jaroslavina to Henry I. Henry I, the French king who, by accepting Hannah, who gave it, brought there the first book of the Holy Book written by Prokopia, the Gospel in two languages, the Cyrillic and the Greeks, to this day lies this, this, this sacred book lies in the Council of Rhine. By 1793 the French kings had taken an oath on this book. Her children, Philip, Louis Gross' grandson -- they've become great kings. They started a branch of the Ludovics. And Hugo’s son, who married her son, married De Valoua’s daughter, gave De Valoua a branch. In France to this day, there are clubs that celebrate, lily, and honor this connection and this one. There's a Hannousi club, which they respect and know first and foremost, absolutely. When we talk about Ingiggerda, the Swedish princess, and Jaroslav, there are no more glorious men and actions in the 11th century than this couple did. In addition to the national, secular, spiritual, they gave four queens of Europe! Elizabeth of Norway, Anastasia of Hungary, Agatha Princess of England, Hanna, Hanna, Hannah of Hannah and Jaroslav. Thus, all Bavaria worships St. Edigne, the daughter, the daughter of Hanna. When we speak for Dmitri Galicki, everyone knows his role. Perhaps it is not entirely known that his son from the daughter of the Prince of Lithuania was the Great Prince of Lithuania. It was 1269 years ago. But this speaks of that great connection from Vengeance, Iszaslav, Mestislav, Romana, Daniel, Levi. This is the creation of the Galico-Voluene Principality, and what it's influenced by the Lithuanian era has made it known. When we speak for John Maximovich, we did so, with the support of all our flanks, last time we took him to the vote, we mentioned John Maximovich, the priest of Siberia. A priest who blessed Pottery, who built the first Orthodox temple on Kamchatka 300 years ago. Ours, the Ukrainian who blessed the Taliban, from Siberia, is this great priest of Siberia. When we speak of Raphael Krasnopolski, Semion Polotsky of blessing, at the request of Alexi Mikhailovich, emperor of Russia, created the first school in Moscow, where his children were raised. This school became a future academy, and Raphael Krasnopolski became the first rector. And after Krasnopolski and Koncevitch and Varlaam Liczewski and 20 other graduates of the Kiev-Mogilian Academy became rectors of this great glorious event, which last year celebrated its 325th anniversary under the slogan "The Door of Science," Moscow celebrated. Igor Svetoslavovich, I think we know this character from the school textbooks, so we stop at him. The only thing I'm going to say is that when this happened, his battle was this tragic one, then the first one of our sources was a reference to Ukraine, when Vladimir Glibovich died, so it's said, Ukraine had a lot of power behind it -- it was 1187. [[1187]] Vestislav Volodymyrovich. This is the first throne Gospel he has commissioned, the four daughters. And Molfrid, and Eupraxia, and Ephrasinia, Ingeborg are queens.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u128	Please, the microphone. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u129	Actually, I've completed the list and I'm addressing this perhaps rhetorical question. What nation, the nation that gave the world to such leaders, and not only in those years, but, say, in the second millennium after the Christmas of the Cross? No, you won't find one in history. But think of another circumstance why I'm here, maybe, you know, I'm doing myself expansively, I'm sorry for being so free, but you can't find this information in school textbooks, in high school, in high school, or in high school, in sequential, conceptual schools, you won't find it. There will be passages and not all of them, but this is our present - day ministry, the Fatherland and the Truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for Peter Andryovich Yashchenka? If there is, please sign up, no, we'll keep working. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u131	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Peter Andriyovich, first of all, I would like to thank you for taking such a brief approach to preparing these questions. I only have to get to know them, and I'm sure I'll all support, vote, I've only got one question in my study. We have repeatedly asked this question in this room. Sometimes we write, "we celebrate 940 years," sometimes 960, sometimes a thousand 10 years. Maybe there's something in our names, or there's no circularity in the dates, you know? Maybe there's something we can do to change our approach. Have you thought about it or not? And what needs to be noted is that the same fact is that they know who Danilo Galicki is and what he did and what his role is and what he knows today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u132	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u133	Thank you. I received that question today and yesterday several times. And I'm going to tell you that I deliberately went to this situation, and this is a standard, so that, you know, something in our memory, in our tradition. Will there ever be another excuse, you know? Will we live to see those Jubilees? This isn't coming. So I'm sorry for that, really, there was this arrhythmia on the dates, well, the whole point was good.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u134	Yes, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u135	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I have, of course, written down in detail everything we need to read after the Bible. Thank you for this advice. I think that's what the radio listeners who listen to us did. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's just say we're going to keep some common sense and there's already a certain algorithm that. What is considered a Jubilee, and we usually celebrate a Jubilee. This is 25, 50, 75, 100. And here I'm absolutely in agreement with Yuri Carmazin, what we're celebrating is the 1010 River. Why not 11 years old? And that's what we're wasting time for. And let's take this proposal once and for all, that only the dates considered to be Jubilee will we register and such decrees of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u136	Thank you. I repeat, I won't pass again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u137	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u138	Dear Peter Andryovich, we really thank you for such a lecture, especially for the audience. We know you've already been on the "Rady" channel. There have been television broadcasts about the involvement of Ukrainian military and their role in the development of cosmonautics, World War II, and in general, we have already made quite a lot of decisions to mark many prominent Ukrainians at the national level. I think if we vote for all of these, I'd like to do it, we'll support that they'll go through formally. And I'm addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, whether or not to give Peter Andryovich a TV set on the Rada channel to conduct these. Well, really lectures, speeches about these great ancestors of ours, so that the general public will be familiar with them. And that's going to be more effective than we're going to formally define.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u140	Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u141	Dear Petr Andreevich! First, I want to thank you for the great educational work you are doing. And second of all, I'd like to ask you. Would it not seem to you that if you did not overload the agenda with so many of your proposals, but would concentrate on 2-3, at the maximum of 4, it would have been a lot more effective, a lot more passage through the Parliamentary Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u142	Thank you. I'm going to say that they were preparing like this, somewhere in the middle of the year, and so technically, they got off on that day. I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u143	Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u144	But let's not let that happen again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u145	Dear Peter Andryovich, it is clear that I will support all your initiatives as well as on the committee, because this is a great historical calendar that doesn't know how you have rightly observed, the nation and the relevance of such even raising questions, it justifies itself how you do it. Because if there is no history textbook, if history is being transformed into political tasks today, it is clear that we should at least remind ourselves of what a great nation we are, how much we gave to the world, how much we gave to the world, how much we gave it back. And the point is, in my opinion, I'd like to hear it from you so everyone knows. And isn't it more appropriate to include the Academy of Sciences, especially the Institute of History, started with Valery Smolly, and we can also develop the task of the Supreme Council, develop a new manual on all the historical data that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u146	I'll tell you, I'll give you an answer like this, looking at it from the horizontal plane. Well, we know that portraits of our eminent actors, and this is a national prerogative, it's a national attribute both in England and in the States, and in France, Poland, the Gallery of Fame and so on. Well, I was at the Ukrainian house, we got out of there, you know. But three universities were invited: Dragomanova, Shevchenka, and today we open the gallery at four o’clock. portraits at a political institute in the library. If you knew what's causing the students to wonder, the pull, it's there, you know, underneath these portraits there, the colloquium is being conducted, Dragomanova -- they've made a travel guide for all of this. And today we're going to invite you to 16-hour channels, and we're going to invite you to open this gallery in polytechnics, and you're going to basically see if it's necessary or not necessary. And I repeat, the portrait gallery, the national status it has, it has to be on a level, well, let's say there's an Arsenal or a Ukrainian House. There must be publication, participation, and the Academy of Sciences.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u147	Thank you, Peter Andryovich. Dear colleagues, the report and the answers to the questions have been completed. I will ask the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski to express the position of the committee on these legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u148	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Well, first of all, there was a question here to make it possible for Peter Andryovich to be on TV. I think he could do it. We have such free legislative weeks that we could give him a week. The important thing is not to fall asleep here in the hall when this report. Today is just an opportunity to remind us that we, Ukrainians, in a political sense, once again emphasize, have such a deep, long-standing history, generally unexplored, very often with vast arrays, not separate spots, but arrays, long forgotten historians, ideologies and so forth. By the way, who's interested in all of this, I don't think there's that much in this room that's interesting to this people, excuse me. But please read, and a unique book has now been published, Vladimir Belinsky, three volumes, about how we have, in the Ukrainians Catherine and Peter stole literally history. When a secret commission was created that traveled around the temples, in churches to remove all documents, all the historical documents that were there. And all of this has been copied, all of this has been rewritten, and so on. Because of this, the proposal made by a member of our committee, Peter Yushchenko, seems really interesting. But I wouldn't. So we're in opposition, of course, it's the easiest thing for us to say, yes, we totally accept, let Azarov do it either the minister of culture there and so forth. But we want to approach these questions pragmatically. And I want to tell you that the question has already been raised here. I want to remind you that there was a decree and Kuchma, the President, was a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers that he signed, if I'm not mistaken, I don't think I'm mistaken, Yanukovich, where it's very clearly regulated how to celebrate the Jubilee. It's when it's round dates, let's say it's there, zero, that's when it's 50 years old. These are some signs. That's why we should stick to this standard. If you look at this list that's here. There are things here that the hot committee supports, and they need to be marked. This is, of course, the Jubilee of Kiev-Pecher Lavra, which is now surrounded by so many passions. This is, of course, the Jubilee of Danil Galicki, the Stateman, who raised the Lithuanian-Galician Empire to such an height, with its prosperity and culture and everything. [[capitalized, very large]] Of course, it has to be marked. I think, and the committee thinks we should celebrate Igor Svetoslavič, the hero of "The Word of the Igorwim Regiment." But I think that my colleagues and writers, not just the writers who are in Parliament, would probably support us to take the decision and not just mark Igor himself, but actually "The Word of the Igorim Regiment" as the unique monument that we have to draw attention to him once more. It's also depraved by this commission, but not so much. Because of that, it would obviously really be us, and it would be clear that the word about the Igori regiment and this system, Peter Andryovich, would mark, let's say, Igor himself. I understand what's causing a lot of people here, I've been talking to people in the hall about the wedding of Hanna Jaroslavna there and all that. I mentioned something about the words of the brilliant Ukrainian poet Dmitry Pavlick, who once wrote, "And for illiterate French kings, Hannah Jaroslavna was written." It's really unique. And here I am fully supportive of Peter Andriyovich. At the same time it was not just a wedding, as some would like to see, it was a unique political union at the time: the bonding of two families, two states, incest and so forth. Because of that, think. But on the other hand, we think, and on the committee we talked about it, but as you vote, so it will be, of course, here are names, there are figures, unique figures, but which would be very appropriate to be celebrated by the church itself, let's say it was normal, and so on. And it may not really be necessary to do so publicly. Although, once again, we have a very rich history, and it would be possible if we could dig up our entire history and go back to the real story that the Smoker has so depraved today that we have to rebuild it again, believe me, we would celebrate every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, as we have agreed with you, I would ask the factions to express their positions, give them two minutes of faction. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" by Lilia Grigorovich. Then I'm asking you to identify yourself from the "BUT" faction. From the rostrum or from the place? On the rostrum. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u150	Dear National Deputies! Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." I want to start with a quote from the Holy Scriptures: "Learn the truth and the truth will set you free." I want to say to the second very famous quote, Galileo-Galilei, "Give me a point of support and I'll break the world." We often hear from our constituents, why so long, 20 years, why we don't have that progress, and today the President of Ukraine says that rapid European integration, and 10 years from now, Ukraine is going to be among the leading countries of Europe in development, where do we get this point of support from which we're going to make this rapid, dynamic progress, success? Answer. After self-knowledge comes self-awareness, after self-awareness comes self-assessment, after self-assessment comes its realization, or success. Dear friends! On behalf of our faction, I also want to thank Peter Andriyovich for the example we had today of both self-awareness and self-awareness, and God, thanks to our vote, self-implementation. I wouldn't make the exception that some are church, some are not church. I'll say one thing: For the Gospel brought by Anna Jaroslavna, the French kings made vows, it stands in the Louvre today as their sanctuary. It's very good that we're talking about this today from the high court. That's why we've never, like, talked about this for, like, a thousand years. So there's a proposal where it's usually a powerful anniversary date, let's say the letter "The Word of the Igori Regiment" or, let's say, the anniversary of the Kiev-Pecher Lavra and so on, let's do, vote all the decisions, let's say some of them be the first reference, and some of them will need more real steps that the state can take. Let's think about it for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u151	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u152	I very much ask that we not only realize ourselves today, but we have taken the first step towards Ukrainian national progress.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u153	Mikola Tomenko, please, then Paul Mokchan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, I also do community service, educational work, including some experience in the direction of this work, and I want to say that we are destined to make a common approach to both the government and the local authorities, and to Parliament in the system of marking significant events and prominent actors. Look, in every decision we make, we copy all the decrees, where it's written, create an orgcommittee government. I have a question: what's going to be a thousand government authorities after these dates? Of course not. We have a 150-year government organ committee to bury Shevchenk and 200 years since Shevchenk's birth how many times have he been going on? I've never done it before. It's true. Then I have a question: what are we writing down? Do you believe that the government will form these orgcommittees and these orgcommittees will gather? Then I have a question: why are we doing this? When it comes to the educational component, the educational component should be made in the educational coordinates system. I've published a Ukrainian yearbook about a thousand personnel and 365 aphorisms of these great people, and at the educational level, I'm promoting it. There is a religious element involved. When it comes to the State Jubilee Dates, I'm here to support my colleague Gordianka, and we have to do nothing and think of nothing. There are 100, 50, there are significant dates that the state takes on itself, there are dates that the local regional authorities take on, there are dates that the public or the Academy of Sciences take on and so forth. And so we're going to come up with, well, perfectly understandable logic of things. Because we can just spend the evening like this. Whoever wants to stay and will be there tonight, where one of the deputies will tell about the history, about the culture, someone will read the poems. Well, turning the meetings of the Supreme Council into, let's say, memories of the actors, there, the Kiev Russians and so on, I think it's incorrect, it's not our function. We need to define the principles of state policy. So I would like to ask Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski to propose, together with the government structures, the only principle of how we work here. I think that the Supreme Council can take up to 10 decrees a year at a level where the whole state celebrates, and then the whole machine of power ensures this. Each area will also do 10 of these. And the rest are public initiatives, public organizations, the Academy of Sciences, religious institutions, then everyone will do their job, and in this case, I think I'm respectful of the important actors that we're talking about, and we agreed that we'll support some. But in general, I don't think that's what the Supreme Council should be doing. Once and for all, we need to define the format and work in a senior representative body that sets out the principles of public policy rather than the educational work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u155	Paul Movcan, please, the MP group "Reforms for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u156	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, recently within the framework of the 20th anniversary of independence, there was the fifth World Forum of Ukrainians, where history was given a very high place. And I have the opportunity to quote one historian, a conservationist, a source of Michael Bilachowski, who said, "The popularization of knowledge from history creates our everyday consciousness, and then determines the right civilizational choice for the future of the entire nation. And without the proper work of archives, libraries, museums, there will be no right choice." And if there are still thousands of sources to this day that we don't have access to, if history is being copied today, what should we do? I ask Mikola Volodymyrovich, how can we solve these problems if there is no humanitarian sphere in the government today? What if there's no Vice Prime Minister? If there's even a humanitarian sphere on the sidelines. That's why I support Peter Andryovich. Because it's the only way to sound the topics that stand. And if, for example, we focus on at least one national date, which, according to President Leonid Danilovich Kuchmy's decree, is celebrated annually, this is November 9th – Nestor's birthday, at least this is how we update this topic once a year! But we have many such topics. And that's why Peter Andryovich needs all these things to be supported, his initiative. It doesn't matter. Because we're already late on some subjects, we're just going out on others, they're ahead. And by the third year, it's going to be 12 years. We've actually missed it for six months. And so at least that's the way to do it. That the Supreme Council does not object to our great nationality.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u157	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u158	I want our historic calendar to be held. It's up to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u159	Thank you, thank you. Please, is the People's Party speaking? None. Yuri Baldirev, please, the faction of the regions. Then Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u160	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I think everyone will agree that the State, the people, acquire history when history becomes written. And I think that if we take this approach when we consider these bills, we will not be mistaken. And it is clear in this key that Kiev-Pecher Lavra is the head of our culture. Nestor the chronicler, this is the one who wrote it. Prince Igor is the hero who created one of the first literary works in our culture. Dmitri Rostowski is a person whose contribution to the formation of our culture is simply not clear who can be compared to, perhaps, the authors of "The Word of the Pole Igoreva". That's why, at this point, I don't think we're wrong. As for other projects, there are all the princesses that we have delegated to Europe. That's interesting, but is it enough to make it a public holiday? Or, say, Prince Danilo Galicki is a regional ruler who has contributed greatly to the development of one part of our country, but he is a regional ruler, his troops have fought Kiev in due course. Kiev was not part of that Power. That's why it's so different. That is why I propose, and I hope that the Hall will support me, that is, the flow of our culture: the Kiev-Pecher Lavra, Nestor Letopisec, Dmitri Rostovski, Prince Igor – it draws some logic, some logic, that we are going to celebrate. And the rest, yes, they're also interesting historical figures, but I don't think they have enough material, not enough of their influence on history to make us do them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u161	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u162	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I have, apparently, heard a lot of us in between the sessions of the previous and today's opinion of some officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine who said that we had accumulated a lot of questions to be resolved by the Supreme Council, it's a shame that the Supreme Council is not working at this time. But when I looked into today's agenda of our work, and then I listened to the distinguished Peter Andriyovich, and I thought to myself, maybe that's not the case, judging from the issues that we're bringing to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dearly beloved, I have a deep conviction that we today have mixed the sinful with the righteous: both the marriage of Anna Jaroslavina, and the birth of the Swedish princess, and the granting of the status of the injured Greek-Catholic Church, and the celebration of the wife of the emperor of the Holy Roman Empire, and so on and so forth. This is what I'm talking about, I'm saying that I want to support the idea that today, that there are actually events of different, so to speak, calibre, there are events of universal significance, and obviously the Supreme Council of Ukraine is destined to look at them, and there are events of a regional scale, and there is a decision to be made by an appropriate body at the level of this region and to celebrate accordingly, and there are events that are of a purely religious nature, and then the Church should do so. I mean, dear colleagues, I think we need to divide all of this. And there's one more thing I want to say. The thought that has already been heard today, but I want to emphasize it. Today, the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality was speaking, and he should obviously remind us that in June the committee decided to celebrate, let us say, the anniversary of the celebration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u163	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u164	. With an interval of 25 years, more minor, 10 years and so on and so forth. So we have to stick to the decisions that we make on our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, we've finished discussing a package of draft regulations. There's been a proposal to expand the opportunity for our colleague to speak on the "Radah" channel. I don't see any problem with that, and we don't have to take decisions here from the Supreme Council. The factions have their quotas, they have their capabilities, and they can communicate a position of general interest. With regard to the publication of historical calendars. They seem to be many, respected colleagues. Perhaps we should recommend that an official historical calendar be issued annually, not in terms of any political mood or political parties, yes, positions, but of an official historical calendar. So, honourable colleagues, as we agreed, I will put each decision to the vote separately, and you will make a responsible decision. I will make a proposal for acceptance as a whole, as recommended by the committee. I am voting for the proposal for acceptance as a basis and for the whole of the draft decree to mark the 940th anniversary of the birth of the long-standing Prince of Europe of the Almighty, the wife of the emperor of the Holy Roman Empire of Henry IV. [[Registration number 8589]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:27:57]] For-58 You tell me because I don't have a computer. "For" is 58, no decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and for the whole of the draft Order to mark the 960th anniversary of the founding of the Kyewovo-Pecher Monastery by St. Anthony. [[Registration number 8590]] Please vote. [[13:28:36]] For 297 I'll take the order. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and for the whole of the draft Order to mark the 960th anniversary of the deployment of the Metropolitan Ilario on the Kiev pulpit. [[Registration number 8591]] [[13:29:14]] For-55 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Decision marking the 360th anniversary of the birth of St. Dimitri Rostovski, Metropolitan Jaroslavski and Rostovsky. [[Registration number 8592]] [[13:29:48]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 10, "BUT – "Patkaščina" – 11, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 27, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 11, National Party – 0, non-fractional – 1. I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as a basis and for the whole of the draft Order marking 955th anniversary of Reverend Nestor the Writer. [[Registration number 8593]] Please vote. [[13:30:37]] For-300 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and for the whole of the draft Order to mark the 960th anniversary of Anna Jaroslavna's marriage to Henry I. [[Registration number 8594]] [[13:31:11]] For-49 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Order to mark the 1010 anniversary of the birth of Swedish Princess Ingiggerda, wife of Jaroslav Wise. [[Registration number 8595]] [[13:31:44]] For-53 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of 810th anniversary of the birth of the first king of Russia-Ukraine, Danil Galicki, for adoption as a basis and as a whole. [[Registration number 8596]] [[13:32:16]] For 263 Decision taken. Yes, dear colleagues, there are still draft regulations. I'm betting on a draft decree to mark the 360th anniversary of the birth of Saint John Maximovich, the Metropolitan of Tobolski and all Siberia for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Registration number 8644. [[13:32:54]] For 228 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft decree on the 300th anniversary of Raphael Krasnopolski, Archbishop of Holmogorski and Vaszeski, the first rector of the Moscow-Greek-Latin Academy for adoption as a foundation and as a whole. [[Registration number 8645]] [[13:33:27]] For-79 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the bill of 860th anniversary of the birth of Prince Igor Svetoslavovich of Novgorod, the chief hero of the ancient Russian poem "The Word of the Igorev" for adoption as a foundation and as a whole. [[Registration number 8646]] Please vote. [[13:34:01]] For 288 Decision taken. I'm betting on a draft decree to mark the 310th anniversary of the death of Damien the Great, Gethman of the Left Bank Ukraine for adoption as a basis and as a whole. [[Registration number 8647]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:34:31]] For-54 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Order to mark the 935th anniversary of the birth of the great Prince of Kiev, Mastislav Volodymyrovich, as a basis and as a whole. [[Large]] [[Registration number 8648]] [[13:35:06]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Thus, respected colleagues, supported by parts of the decrees that showed that we can and should find common positions set up for the historical figures of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Law is being announced. What, what? Please, Chechtov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u166	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We would like to thank Peter Andreevich for, indeed, his great work in restoring the spirituality of Ukraine, the identity of the Ukrainian nation. But we don't understand how such a person, a real Ukrainian in the blood of Our Ukraine, has been expelled from the faction. Is that a thank you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine is under review. What, what? So who alone, please, who? From the faction, please tell me. I am. Please tell me. Please, one person. Dear colleagues, calm down. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I want to say that Peter Andryovich Yushchenka was not expelled from the faction of our Ukraine. And I would very much ask our colleagues not to extend to all of Ukraine simply their wishes to the previous ones who have them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 has been announced. [[on the use of VAT privatisation costs by Skretelekom to increase the minimum level of pension insurance]] I'll bet the vote on a reduced procedure, please. The reporter will be a national MP. Early, early, Valery Alexiovich, early. [[13:37:16]] For-191 Decision taken. The reporter is Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valery Alexiyovich Baranov Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, I would like to present to you the view of the Tomenko, Royal, Semiraq group on the need for joint work on the budget, obviously in 2012, since the bill was previously registered, and if our ideas and approaches to budgeting are supported, of course, on the 2012 budget. Our logic was as follows. During the last period, and especially in view of the latest vote on the pension reform, which the President is likely to sign, the situation seems to be that the ideological policy of power today leads to the richer -- richer, poorer -- poorer -- being poor. And in our opinion, this is in direct contradiction to the constitutional norm that positions Ukraine as a social state. The social state foresees solidarity where, on the contrary, the poor have to feel their social protection at the expense of the rich and on the basis of the only principles of sound budget formation. And when the state gets more than 10 billion dollars after privatization, especially for the Shrimp, the state has to demonstrate, through the institutions of power, the concern of the poor. So, based on the fact that we now have a minimum pension of 764 bracelets, of October 1, if the government counted, there would be 784 bracelets, we would like to increase the minimum pension to the minimum of living to demonstrate that the State, by selling objects, is overly concerned about the most socially vulnerable people. This idea of ours would be useful in shaping the 2012 budget as, by the way, other ideas are now actively discussing this topic in European countries. You know, there's an idea in Italy about a so-called justice tax, where the richest people starting with football players, there's millionaires or billionaires paying more taxes. For example, French billionaires and millionaires have suggested that in a critical situation they are willing to invest more, pay taxes to support socially vulnerable citizens. That's why we don't insist on hard formulations of our law, but we view it as a proposal from the government in the formation of the 2012 budget, using privatisation funds, to advance them to raise the most socially unsecured citizens, or pensioners, who receive the smallest pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u170	Committee head Valery Alexiyovich Baranov, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u171	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill was just considered by the committee, and we planned to consider it today. But what I want to point out is that the authors are proposed to make changes to the State Budget Act for this year, the cost of "Silverman", the sale of it, at 10.6 billion dollars to the Pension Fund for Retirement. It should be noted that this bill is similar to the text of Bill 8323, which on May 11, this year we did not support you to include in the agenda of the current session. In fact, the bill needs to be noted that the costs of privatising the Shrimp are already included in the government budget's revenues and are appropriate and directed towards the implementation of approved public budget expenditure. So it's not possible to distribute the same thing twice. The adoption of the bill in this paper will result in a budget balance. According to the expert conclusions of the Ministry of Finance, the adoption of the bill is not appropriate. To sum up, it should be noted that the proposed legislative proposal is populist, there is no realistic source of expenditure coverage, and so please take this position into account when voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u172	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, sign up for a discussion: two for, two against. Names of the national MPs, please. Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u173	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland". Dear compatriots, we all remember well as in early 2010, Victor Janukovic, then a candidate for the Presidents, promised a minimum pension of a thousand 200 dollars and promised a substantial increase in wages and social assistance. Sadly, this did not happen. If the authorities do not want to do so, they will be forced to remind and force the opposition to do so. And that's why the Mikaly Tomenka Bill and the Fatherland faction are very relevant, which requires the cost of privatization, including the Shrimp Tomenko Bill, to send up, first of all, minimum pensions, which are 800 dollars with something. Compare Januković’s promise of 1,200 dollars and 800 dollars, which is actually 7 million people in our country. And so I would suggest from myself that not only from privatization, but from a reduction in the maintenance of the bureaucratic apparatus, primarily by Viktor Yanukovic, his family from the President's Office, there are millions of people there too. It's only going to the President's House 152 million dollars from the budget this year. How about saving 17 million euros on helicopters, on helicopters, on helicopter landing sites, on gold toilets? So, friends, there's money, all you need is a will and a desire to help the most socially vulnerable categories, the poor our pensioners, who you've actually reduced your pensions since October 1st, because your pension reform law has reduced your pension base. And you've raised all people and young people, including 10 years of minimum employment. So now everyone's going to come up with this tiny pension that you're giving people to work for 10 more years. Then fear God, even though one such socially motivated bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u174	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, we are convinced, and we are convinced, and we want to convince you that this issue, which is currently being discussed, has two or two strands. The first layer, as if the social component is present, we are a socially oriented state, we have to take care of pensioners, citizens, unprotected populations. But it's a double bottom. See what we're saying. The pension fund exists as a self-reliant institution. This fund, which has relations with the state budget exclusively through transfers or loans that are not taken temporarily. But any state that today is shaping order in its financial equipment, there is only one way that it has a purposeful use of funds. I fully support the committee's head of profile that we can't double-enter the same river and redistribute those funds that have already entered the revenue part of the state budget. But one more thing. Does Ukraine have a fiche, a fiche to direct money for a development project to feed our population, finance and pensions, and additional revenues, or is there such a fiche? I'd like to draw your attention to the following. Poland, for example, is sending all privatisation money to the construction sector. First of all, the construction of farm facilities. And much of the money is also being channeled to the television industry, infrastructure, and utilities. It's clear where the money's going. Tajikistan may not be a very good example. But this is our colleague in the U.S.R.R. literally 20 years ago. It directs the advent of privatization into the mining field. Can this be applied in Ukraine? Of course you can. Taiwan. Taiwan is channeling its funds from privatization, think about industrial development, and exclusively into the development of electronics and electrical technology. I'd like to remind you who doesn't know. What is Taiwan's export size in 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u176	Finish what in Taiwan?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u177	. He made $305 billion. That's why we don't think this bill should be supported. And we need to focus on other sources of the creation of the Ukrainian Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u178	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u179	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! I would like to return all of us to yesterday's vote on pension reform. And to remind you that at the end of yesterday everything was put in place. In two months, which was between the two sessions, just as the scholars did not tell us why the law was not signed. And the alternate documents were mentioned, and the fact that there are some disagreements was mentioned. And it turns out that the box opened up, as they say, very simple. It seemed to some government officials that a pensioner, a veteran, a disabled person who had worked 40-50 years would receive an extremely large pension under this law. Yesterday the article was reviewed by removing and thereby reducing the size of an active pensioner’s active pension by three hundred and an extra dollars. So I think that, despite the fact that the committee's been leaking information that it's a populist document, that it's groundless, that it can't be accepted, you know, in recent times it's become that all that's directed at a person is populism, and it doesn't have to be accepted at all. So, contrary to the opinion of the Professional Committee, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this document, bearing in mind that in this way we will try to mitigate to some extent the damaging effects of the document that was adopted yesterday, since we were trapped in the pocket yesterday, including today’s pensioners. And I'm explaining in what way: a person gets a basic pension for over-standard employment, and since it's up-to-date, that's how the pension will be reduced for today's pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u180	Thank you. From the faction, please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, you know, I urge you to stop in populism after all. Let us take a real look at the situation that we are talking about. First. We're saying let's sell the business, and we're going to transfer the money to the Pension Fund. The Pension Fund is a permanent component when monthly payments are required. And from one infusion, if we pass on some amount, we won't solve the problem. There is a path on which all reasonable States are headed from the privatization of the enterprise to the creation of new jobs, and then there is an additional profit, and from that comes the income to the Pension Fund, which is the way we should go. And here I would like to respond to those who are warring about what we have done with the Pension Fund. They did it a long time ago. The hole to date in the Pension Fund is $60 billion, and everyone knows that, well, or about that, there are different assessments of experts. And yesterday we offered one very smart and very. A further 42 billion will increase the gap. What's to close? What's the income line for closing this? Nobody's talking about it. So before we do populism and talk, let's sell one business and then spend our whole lives paying people's pensions, let's talk to people, they're not that stupid. It's just impossible to do that. Therefore, the apriori cannot be voted in favour of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Here, obviously, we should be looking at it in two planes. The Supreme Council could ask the Cabinet of Ministers where the money from the sale, let's say, "The Shrimp," and then ask them how the money from the sale of "The Chrystals" was spent, and then we would have less population here. In general, I propose to such laws, when the language goes to tens and hundreds of millions to increase, to make another decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to appoint as a minimum a deputy or a minister, in order for these laws to be implemented. What we need to ask is probably to get information, it would be right, but that's the next step. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the use of VAT privatisation costs by Skretelekom to increase the minimum level of pension insurance]] [[Registration number 8547]] [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:52:00]] For-67 Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? For 67. The decision is not taken. Carmazine's voice counts. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, I ask you to continue this morning's session until the conclusion of another document. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the financing of free-of-charge actions and the issuance to citizens of Ukraine of state-owned land rights acts]] [[Registration number 8572]] The request is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. Otherwise we won't make it. [[13:53:05]] For-191 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Vasil Kravchuk. The committee responsible is headed by Valérie Baranov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u183	In 2009, the government of Yulia Timoshenko initiated a simplified procedure for free processing and issuing state-owned property rights to Ukrainian citizens. To this end, the government of Yulia Tymoshenko in 2009 directed 507 million 784 thousand dollars, free of charge to citizens of state land rights. Yet, from the beginning of 2010 until now, the free issuance of State acts on land in rural areas has ceased. As a result of the lack of funding to pay for jobs, public service services have been denied to millions of Ukrainian citizens free of charge and free of charge to obtain State acts. Such things are an outright violation of the legitimate rights of our fellow countrymen and are incompatible with the State, which has declared its primary duty to protect human rights and freedoms, which is now difficult to say. It is possible to correct this situation by means of an initial bill. The bill proposes to increase spending by 400 million dollars on the main budget arrangement, the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, to issue state-owned land rights in rural areas. The source of additional expenditure is proposed to determine additional revenues to the state tax budget for the added value of goods produced in Ukraine. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u184	Thank you. No, but the committee needs to express its point. Valerius Baranov, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u185	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The committee meeting today planned to consider the matter. However, the results of the previous work should be noted as follows: the legislative proposal is to increase the expenditure of the State budget to the Land Resources Agency by means of a programme: the issue of State private land rights in rural areas by an increase of 400 million dollars in revenue from the added value tax on goods produced in Ukraine. It should be noted that in carrying out these measures, the government budget of this year is designed to account for the changes of 234 million dollars, of which only 90.5 million, or only 34 percent of the total amount, have been used in seven months. In doing so, the authors of the bills in breach of the requirements of article 27 of the budget code and part of article 91 of the Supreme Council Rules did not provide any real financial and economic justification for the increase in the expenditure of the State budget. According to the expert opinion of the Ministry of Finance, the bill is not supported. But what I want to add is that this question is very timely and important and it needs to be taken into account next year's budgeting. This is a very important problem for peasants and we should consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u186	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up. Yes, Dmitri Schlemko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u187	Dmitry Schlemko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Indeed, the question raised today is vital. For more than a year, the previous government decided to issue free state property rights and received more than one million citizens. They're the rural people who haven't been able to provide this in yet because of money, because they had to spend thousands on that pension or the salary of 800 and more dollars. That is why the absence of State acts today is not just a problem but a major threat to those who do not. As a living example, I can cite one of the areas in the Supreme Region of Ivano-Frankiv district, where there is one of the shrines of the Goats, the so-called "Writestone", and they have arrived there by far, and very recently, those people who have already had land areas there, and who practice it as a national tradition, are taking this land, because there are no public acts there so far. That is why millions of people may be at risk in the future. So I think we need to take action today. This is one of the points where we need to vote together in order to remove this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u188	Roman Tkac, "Our Ukraine" faction is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, the problem raised by our colleagues is extremely relevant, extremely important. But I'd like to say that it sounds a little bit lopsided. The situation today is the following. The first question is, we're here with you, in a hall signed by the President of the State Land cadastre Act. That is, the very procedure for issuing State acts is no longer valid. Since January 1, 2012, the Law on Registration of Real Estate Rights has entered into force, where a person will simply go and certify his or her right. But the question is this. This is a recent statement by the President that we will go back to the implementation of land reform. Therefore, land reform funds need to be allocated. To date, there has been no delimitation of state property in Ukraine. Today, only 5 percent of the country’s lands in Ukraine, according to memory. When speaking for a narrow problem – the issuing of state acts – today, even the State Commission itself, yesterday's State Commission, the land agency doesn't know how much money is really needed. Today, a colleague of Baranov has talked about this: 235 million dollars for this year have been spent on land reform. Some 40 percent were actually won. So I'd still like to ignore politics here. We are in a serious process of continuing land reform. Let's say we can vote in the first reading, but for the second reading, this thing needs to be reconciled with the Ministry of Finance, we need to agree with the Ministry of Finance. And it might say that these costs are not just for issuing state acts. Because we understand that in 2009, I was a little bit skeptical about these things: free of charge of issuing state acts. Because there were a lot of colossals when a person paid for the money, but at that time they spent free of charge, and they were unable to obtain their national act paid for throughout the year. Therefore, we should vote in the first reading. And to the second reading, write down the procedure that these costs should be set aside for the continuation of land reform, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u190	Thank you. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u191	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The right to land is one of the most important issues in Ukrainian society. So the goal of our bourgeoisie is to take the land into the peasants. In this regard, this distribution of land rations has been made to our peasants, as if the State were giving away the land for free. By the way, that's because a memorandum with Ukraine was signed by the International Monetary Fund back in the '90s. Well, if the State has already given away the land for free, it is logical that it should be free of charge and give away the State’s acts. But it's different: to take another skin off a peasant, the price for these acts. So, of course, the bill should be supported. And I think all the Ukrainian national MPs who meet with the voters know that people want to give up acts for free. I don't think it's going to be a lot of budget spending, and then let the peasant decide what to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-07-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter, it is very sensitive and important. I have to say that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has introduced into the draft Law on the Simplification of the Procedure for the Delimitation of State and Municipal Property, that's what Roman Tkac has been talking about. And we would obviously need to get the right information, to discuss the issue that is now with the land, including the consequences of issuing free property rights when in haste, they did not clearly separate land and in many cases people with villas are standing and protecting their land, because one land is coming to another land area, and there are a lot of problems in these matters. Obviously, we need to obtain complete and complete information. And with this in mind, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the financing of actions and the free processing and issuance of state-owned property rights to Ukrainian citizens]] [[Registration number 8575]] [[14:04:04]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Since 15 o'clock work on committees and factions. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work from 10:00 a.m. to Thursday, September 8.
