ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:05]] Cards were registered in the 349 members of the National Assembly Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague Kulikov Kiril Borisovich. Please welcome him, wish him success in good health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on December 21, 2011. 12 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, five laws and one decree were passed, five bills and one draft decree were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the issues set out in the December 22, 2011, schedule. The draft Law on Restoration of the Debtor's Payment or Recognition of Its Bankruptcy is announced for consideration. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 8531]] Yuri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! I would like to draw your attention to this law, which is quite large and strong, in which it contains more than 466 amendments. To your attention, more than 400 amendments have been taken into account and little has been rejected. In the preparation of the bill, a working group was established with a committee comprising both the Ukrainian people's deputies and representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ukrainian Presidential Administration. The Economic Policy Committee of the Supreme Council recommends that it be adopted by the Supreme Council in the light of the amendments as a whole, on the basis and as a whole. I'm ready to go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u3	That's how we do it. 7th Amendment. Xenya Lapina. Is she insisting on it? Who insists on their amendments? Once again, there are no unhappy drafts before. reading? None. Then I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Law on Restoration of the Payments of the Debtor or Recognition of It by Bankruptcy. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 8531]] [[10:05:12]] For 263 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the rights of persons with disabilities is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 8513]] The reporter is Valeriy Suškević. Turn on the microphone, please, Valery Suškevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u4	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies, Suškević, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Colleagues, in July of this year, you and I adopted in our first reading a draft of the Ukrainian Law to amend certain laws on the rights of persons with disabilities. I would like to point out that this law is prepared by the government in the context of bringing all the basic laws of the whole of Ukrainian legislation to the main international legal instrument today in the field of social protection of persons with disabilities and the protection of the rights of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. You and I have ratified this convention, and now Ukrainian legislation is leading to the standards of this document. The committee was given 121 suggestions and amendments, all of which were included in the comparative table. Of these, the total number, or in part, 94, is negative 27. I would like to draw the attention of all colleagues and factions, the national MPs, that the bill was worked on in the second reading very carefully and in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Policy. All, literally every amendment, were dealt with by government officials. It's important because we've found a solution that would ensure full implementation of the convention's provisions to actual legislation. Moreover, I would like to say that during the committee's work, all the social organizations of the disabled were involved in the proposal. And in the context of these three pages: the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, the Government of the Ministry of Social Policy and Public Organizations of Persons with Disabilities, this bill has been finalized into the current version of second reading. I believe that the final adoption of this law is based on the year and, you know, we have just celebrated the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, Parliament will make a serious contribution to the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, their social protection and the definition of all equal rights and opportunities for citizens with disabilities. Please be supportive. The committee recommends that the project be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on their amendments that are not taken into account? Please, Mikhail Chechtev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, request that 54 amendments be made to the final legitimization of the session hall. Amendment 54 for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u7	What amendment? Microphone again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u8	Amendment 54, 54.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u9	Amendment 54 Valery Suškević. Microphone, please, Valery Suškevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this amendment is fully in line with the government, with the social organizations of the disabled. The point is that businesses, institutions, and organizations should create conditions for unhindered access to persons with disabilities. Including people with disabilities who use vehicles, well, they mean wheelchairs. Colleagues, I would like to support this amendment, since, well, this amendment determines the obligation of relevant operators to ensure all issues related to the rights of persons with disabilities to move forward in society’s infrastructure. And what's touching the means of transport. I emphasize that this amendment is supported by the government. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, the argument was convincing. Therefore, Mikhail Vasilovich withdraws his warnings about this amendment. Other amendments that the MPs have been warned about, please let us know. You don't? The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. No objections? A proposal for adoption and second reading is put to the vote and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the rights of persons with disabilities. [[Registration number 8315]] Please vote. [[10:11:07]] For 302 The law is passed. Thank you. What is the correction? And they took the amendment there, so. The committee approved it, the amendment was withdrawn. We didn't vote. Warnings have been lifted. She's a committee member. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities is being reviewed. [[concerning the unification of documents]] [[Registration number 9394]] Along with it. May I have your attention, please? Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship has asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to postpone its consideration of the bill in a number of circumstances. At the same time, I inform you, honourable national MPs, that when we adopted the bill as a basis, we also instructed the committee to prepare the bill for consideration in the second reading by a reduced procedure. The committee did not prepare this document for second reading. So I'm going to put a motion for a bill to be passed on to the vote. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support the postponement of this bill, we will consider it and accept it with the option that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has introduced. So I'm voting on a motion by the committee to postpone the consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 9394]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:13:10]] For-19 The decision is not taken. So, honourable national MPs, I'm putting a second sentence to the vote. Please Xenia Leapina, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, we can certainly vote now and in the edition of the first reading. This law simply includes several types of activity in the listing of permits, that is, it will add permission to those that we have several hundred permits. If we think we're doing a good job, I doubt that. Yet I want to pay attention. If we now vote on this law as it is, we'll be back with you a dozen more times to this list of permits. Because there are so many inadequacies, indemnities. So, actually, there's nothing good we can do right now is just vote it out. We can't make anyone any better. And we're not going to change the legal problems that exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I think we should all consider the warning of Kseniya Lupina. But, at the same time, that means that responsibility will lie solely on the committee. I think it's time for the committee to come back from the meetings in the office, in the session room and make the right decision. And the inadequacies contained in the draft law are removed. The committee heads were warned. If they do not submit drafts in due time, there will be nothing left to do but accept documents in their original form. So, all the problems and all the responsibility, I stress again, on the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities as a Law. [[Registration number 9394]] Please vote. [[10:15:35]] For 258. The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the reduction of the time-limits for the removal of land for urban needs is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 8679]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Valérie Bevezenko. Yes, the reporter! The committee head! You see, honourable colleagues, as the Supreme Council works, do not catch up on the activities of the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by a second reading draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the shortening of the deadline for the removal of land for urban needs. Since the adoption of the project, 14 amendments have been made on the basis of legislative initiatives. Of these, the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee recommends taking 12 amendments into account and rejecting 2 amendments. The main legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the bill without notice. Please support the bill on the proposed editorial committee and accept it on second reading and as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u15	Dear National Deputies! The chief legal authority called for this document without any notice. And so this indicates that the committee conducted a technical preparation of the subject for consideration in the second reading. I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and the whole bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to shorten the deadline for the removal of land for construction purposes. [[Registration number 8679]] Please vote. [[10:18:12]] For 248 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the resolution of differences in subsidization of enterprises]] [[Registration number 9026]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Marina Perestenko. Please, Marina Volodymyrno.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u16	Thank you. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the national parliament, your attention is drawn to the second reading of the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and adopted by the Supreme Council on 1 November 2011. [[Registration number 9026]] The bill is called upon to resolve the differences arising from the granting of a credit subsidy to agri-business enterprises at places by bringing credit subsidies into line with Article 347 of the master code of Ukraine and allowing agricultural enterprises to receive interest compensation for short-term loans involved to cover production costs not only in the current year but also in the following year for expenses incurred in the past 12 calendar months. The committee considered the bill at its December 6th meeting, where a number of substantive amendments and comments were made to the committee. And 11 amendments were made to the second reading by the legislators, all of which are included. And as a result of the review, it is proposed to support the amended bill and recommend that it be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. If there are questions about the scientific expertise, they're all normalized and brought to the right perspective.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u17	Thank you, Marina Volodymyrna. Dear colleagues. Is there a note? Pigs, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to Amendment No. 3 of this bill. It says here she's partially accounted for. I request that the amendment be put to the vote. I think it should be taken fully into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u19	Marina Volodymyrna, can we put it to a vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u20	Let's put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u21	Honourable National MPs, voter number three, National Deputy Prasolulova, to be taken fully into account. Please vote. [[10:21:35]] For 271 Correction counted. Can we put it all together, Marina Volodymyrna?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u22	Yes, the entire committee is offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u23	The proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture is put to the vote. [[on the resolution of differences in subsidization of enterprises]] [[Registration number 9026]] Please vote. [[10:22:15]] For 270. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing requests that the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the integration of co-owners of a multi-family house be postponed to the evening session. They are now in line with the Chief Legal Authority's comments that have been made to this bill. Is there a denial? We're delaying 16 hours. A draft Act amending Ukraine's Land and Forest Code for Conservation of Forests is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 8489]] The reporter is Anatoly Seminoga, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, for your consideration in the second reading, there is a draft of the Law of Ukraine amending the Code of Land and Forest. [[Registration number 8489]] A bill initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine aimed at improving legislation in the field of land and forest management and ensuring the removal of forest funds only on the basis of decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers. It is proposed to amend articles 122 and 149 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, as well as articles 27, 31 and 32 of the Ukrainian Code of Forest, which provide for the redistribution of powers from the Cabinet of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, Kiev and Sevastopol, the city, district government administrations on the transfer of land to ownership and use, the removal of land to state property, and the clarification of the powers of rural, rural, municipal, municipal councils of executive authorities on the administration of land and municipal property to separate them. Since the local executives and local authorities have recently decided to remove land, forest areas, change their targets, and give priority to individual and residential buildings, gardening, and so on. In order to achieve an optimum rate of forestry, which is twenty percent of the territory of our country, it is necessary to create an additional two million hectares of planting and to ensure that they are preserved from removal and unwarranted change of destination. The committee received seven suggestions from legal entities. One of them is counted. One included in part. Others are rejected. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. Members of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of legislation on second reading and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u25	Dear National Deputies, the Chief Legal Authority has supported the work done by the Committee. So I'm voting on a second reading proposal and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Law on Change to Ukraine's Land and Forest Codes for Conservation of Forests. Registration number 8489. Please vote. We need the forest. [[10:26:17]] For 282 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Investment Activities Act of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[about matching terminology]] [[9024 - Registration Number]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexy Plotnikov. Alexia Vitaliovich, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u26	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is given to the second reading of the Act amending the Law on Investment. [[about matching terminology]] The bill was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on July 21, 2011. The purpose of the bill is to bring terminology into line with valid legislation, to define the terms "investment project", "project investment proposal" and some others. A comparative table to second reading was discussed at the Economic Policy Committee meeting on December 6, 2011 and it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second reading bill and a whole. In line with the conclusions of the General Legal Directorate, we also ask that paragraph 2 of the bill be drafted as follows: "This law takes effect from the day of its publication." In all, 10 comments and suggestions were received from the National Deputies, of which 3 are taken into account. In this way, please support the decision of the committee, taking into account the proposals made by the General Legal Office regarding the drafting of paragraph 2. It's essentially a technical readjustment, it's not something that's principled.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u27	Okay. People's MP's microphone, please. Amendments 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u28	Thank you. My amendment number 7 is aimed at defining and concentrating a clear list of types of state support into a single law that will exclude future disputes regarding the application of state support. So I'm asking my amendment to support number seven, and my colleague Platoon number eight, as it is mutually exclusive, to vote for confirmation and accordingly not to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u29	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u30	The position of the committee that we can't put "these" because there are other laws. This position is in agreement with the Ministry of Economics, which is strictly regulated by this law. That's why we don't put the word "them."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u31	Dear National Deputies! Amendment 7. The People's Deputy Glushchenko proposes to apply other forms of legislation in the paragraph, to add the word "predicted by this law" in order to specify what this is about. It's a logical decision, so I'd like your attention. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the People's Deputy, which is rejected by the committee, but aimed at clarifying the law. Amendment number 7 shall be voted upon. Please vote. [[10:30:00]] For 243 Correction supported. Logically, dear colleagues, we need to put to the vote an 8 amendment to her confirmation that I do. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:30:25]] For -6 Correction not supported. So now there are no other objections? May I put it to a vote? It is up to the vote to propose a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Investment Act, specifying the committee on the date of entry into force of this law. [[about matching terminology]] [[Registration number 9024]] Please vote. [[10:31:11]] For 267 The law is passed. The draft Law on State Strategic Planning is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9407]] The rapporteur is Alexy Plonikov, head of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u32	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is given to the second reading of the Ukrainian Strategic Planning Act, Law 9407, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. From the very beginning, I would like to say that during the consideration of this bill's draft, a number of substantive legal observations and proposals were made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, which, in the opinion of the Administration, are not possible to adopt this bill in the first reading. That is, by accepting it in the first reading, the Supreme Council accepted it, provided that such comments and suggestions were fully taken into account. So a second-reading committee and a comparative table is prepared taking into account the proposals of the Scientific and Expert Office and the legal entities of the legislative initiative. The comments made by the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority to this bill were made today. I think the people's deputies met him. A total of 122 offers. These are proposals made by Ukrainian national deputies. The National Bank. Of the 122 proposals: rejected – 39, counted – 51, counted editorially – 14, partially and in fact – 12. So according to the Committee's development, we have an optimal clear and balanced system of strategic planning documents that corresponds to the current stage in the socio-economic and socio-political processes of Ukraine. The committee, having considered the draft Law on State Strategic Planning at its meeting on 6 December 2011, decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading and in general. [[Registration number 9407]] At the same time, on behalf of the committee, I ask that you allow technical remedies before the law is signed by the President. Thank you, if there's a note to the amendment, I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u33	Let's go to the amendments, distinguished national MPs. Who insists on the amendments made to this law? Who insists on reforming their ways? With regard to this law, the Chief Legal Authority, I have just held consultations again, has made a number of important observations, including in the section on interference with the Code of Budgets, which relates to interference with the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why the reporter said that we need to do a technical and legal revision of this bill. And that means that it would be better to re-read it and re-work it so that there is no conflict that we are forced to correct by 131 articles. But according to the Rules, I will put to the vote the first proposal for adoption in the second reading and generally as a law. If the proposal is not supported, then the second reading will be reread to correct any of the errors mentioned in this document. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the first sentence is to vote: the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Law on State Strategic Planning. [[Registration number 9407]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:35:23]] For 225 I'm voting on a motion to re-read the bill. Please vote. [[10:35:45]] For 249 Decision taken. I pay attention to the committee that will work on the bill in the re-second reading mode. As far as the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules and the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are concerned, do not circumcise them, dear colleagues. If you don't think about the Supreme Council in general, think about future generations that will work in the Supreme Council. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on increasing accountability and improving public regulation in the area of urban activity is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the committee on legislative security, law enforcement and law enforcement activities, Vladimir Olijnik. Vladimir. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on increasing accountability and improving public regulation in the area of urban activity. The purpose of the draft Ukrainian Law is to improve public policy in the area of construction. The bill provides for increased fines for construction offences, differentiation of proposed fines, depending on the category of complexity of construction objects. Foresee the personal responsibility of individual perpetrators for construction offences, etc. In particular, amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, the Ukrainian Master Code, the Ukrainian Laws on the Basics of Construction, on Pipeway Transport, on Electricity, on Architectural Activities, on Natural Monopolies, on the well-being of Human Settlements, on Construction Standards, on the regulation of urban activities are proposed. Also proposed is a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Responsibility for Offences in Urban Activities. The committee supports the government’s desire to improve the legal basis for construction. In preparation for the second reading, we worked with the Construction Committee, the State Architectural Building Inspection, and the Mining Building. In general, we have improved the second reading of the bill. For example, where it was agreed that no changes to the Criminal Code should be made. In addition, the penal system has been greatly improved. In particular, they withdrew from the non-alternative sanctions and very high fines. A total of 78 amendments were made to the project. Of these, 40, 38 are rejected in whole or in part. The main reason for the rejection of the amendment is that it does not correspond to the ideology of the bill that the Rules adopted as a basis. In general, the committee believes that the bill can be recommended and accepted as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u35	So, can we vote then, Vladimir Mikolaiovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u36	Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is, however, I insist as an author, amendments to the confirmation to put 75, if there are no others. Even though it's 116. But this, I say again, is the amendments that it takes to harmonize this legislation in general. I'd like to make 75 amendments to confirm. She agrees with the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u37	But no, it's a comparative table.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u38	Yeah. For confirmation. Here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u39	What article, Vladimir Mikolaiovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u40	That's 75 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u41	Puts to the vote 75 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u42	Yes, for confirmation. Support me. [[10:40:12]] For 237
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u43	Z-237. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u44	And 76 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u45	Operated 76 amendments to the vote. [[10:40:35]] For 238. Correction accepted. What else?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u46	In general, if you don't, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u47	It is up to the vote, it is up to the vote to propose the adoption of a second reading and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase accountability and improve public regulation in the area of urban activity. [[Registration number 8597]] Please vote. Vladimir Mikolaiovich! [[10:41:18]] For 249 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending articles 166 to 10 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility of Officials of State Authorities and Local Self-Government for Violations of Legislation in the field of the issuance of documents of a permissive nature is being tabled. [[Registration number 9182]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of the Law Enforcement Activities of Vladimir Olijnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u48	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, draft amending article 166 with 10 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Strengthening the Responsibility of Officials of State Authorities and Local Self-Government Authorities for Violations of Legislation on the Issue of Permitted Documents, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading on 15 November 2011. [[Registration number 9182]] In preparing the bill, 11 suggestions were made to the committee for consideration in the second reading, including three in editorial terms. Not including six proposals that do not entail meaningful effort or do not comply with the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. As a result of the joint processing of the proposals made with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority, the draft text of the bill in the comparative table was prepared for consideration in the second reading. The extension of Project No. 9192 to the list of administrative offences concerning the order of issuance of documents of a permissive nature by the authorities, their officials, for whom administrative responsibility is envisaged and the increase in the fines for which they are issued, will have a direct impact on the income part of the budget, increasing it. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt draft No. 9192 in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u49	Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. So I put to the vote a proposal for a committee on adoption and second reading and as a whole a bill amending articles 166 to 10 of the Code on Administrative Offences to increase the responsibility of officials of public authorities and local self-government authorities for violating legislation on the issue of documents of a permissive nature. [[Registration number 9182]] Please vote. [[10:44:27]] For 275 The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine on improving confiscation procedures is being announced for consideration, [[Registration number 9208]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of the Law Enforcement Activities of Vladimir Olijnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting on 21 December 2011 considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes for the Improvement of Procedures for Confiscation prepared for the second reading. I would like to remind you that the bill is designed to improve the procedure for confiscation of property used for the purpose of committing a crime or for committing a crime, as well as property derived from the commission of a crime. The Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine have been amended accordingly, according to which a general part of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is supplemented by a new Chapter XIV with the symbol "1", which defines the concept of "special confiscation" and the case of its application. A series of articles in a particular part of the Ukrainian Criminal Code excludes situations that provide for special confiscation. Articles 79 and 81 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code are presented in a new edition. Articles 29, 125, 126, 186, 214, 224, 228, 248, 324, 334 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code define the procedural mechanism for securing possible special confiscation. During the drafting of the bill for consideration on the first reading, the committee proposed that it be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. This was also the opinion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. But despite the conclusion, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the bill as a basis for its first reading. In preparation for the second reading of the bill, 68 proposals were made from legal entities. At the suggestion of a subcommittee that was preparing the project for consideration in the second reading, 9 of them are proposed to be included in whole or in part, 60 rejected. At the same time, at the committee meeting yesterday, there was a question about the need for expertise in this law, taking into account the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Act and the Presidential Decree on certain measures to improve the formation and implementation of State anti-corruption policies. And the committee has decided to send a bill to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, proposes to support the Supreme Council with this decision, asking the Ministry of Justice to conduct its official anti-corruption expertise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have some kind of conflict here. The bill, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on September 22, was considered on the committee for a long time, and the committee then decides that it should be sent to anti-corruption expertise. Then the question arises, and what did the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine do when he introduced the bill? That's the first one. And the second. When the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted it as a foundation, we cannot now return it to the subject of the right of legislative initiative. And there's a big colossal, or the committee should have prepared this bill, or there's a palatative decision: put it off and all. So I propose to vote on the commission of the committee to finalize the bill, along with the Cabinet of Ministers to conduct anti-corruption expertise and bring it up for consideration for the next plenary week, which is the right thing to do. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to vote. And I ask the secretariat to prepare a written commission on this matter by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[10:49:10]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Heat Supply, the Reporter is the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy for Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, please. [[on the use of a technological minimum of natural gas]] [[Registration number 9374]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u52	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I present to you the Committee's second reading draft law amending the Ukrainian Warming Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the use of a technological minimum of natural gas]] [[Registration number 9374]] The bill proposes to amend the Heat Act to define the term of the technological minimum consumption of natural gas, and to foresee the possibility of non-payments, of not making full payments for the use of natural gas and of transporting it to limit the energy supply of natural gas in the heating period to the technological minimum consumption of natural gas. The text adopted as a basis in the first reading included 5 amendments from six national deputies: Romanyuk, Korge, Carmazin, Rybakov, Caplienko and Kamchatny At its meeting on December 21, 2001, the Committee considered a comparative table with proposals made by national deputies, of which 4 amendments are included: one amendment of Carmazin is not included, the third amendment. The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of draft Law No. 9374 on second reading and as a whole. I propose to support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on their amendments? The committee's proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Heat Supply is put to the vote. [[on the use of a technological minimum of natural gas]] [[Registration number 9374]] Please vote. [[10:51:48]] For 233 The law is passed. Honourable deputies, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on issues concerning the issue of licences]] [[Registration number 9022]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Mikhail Vasilovich Chechetov. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 7 December this year reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian licensing laws prepared by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee for Second Reading. [[Registration number 9022]] The purpose of the law is to regulate, harmonize and systematically improve licensing procedures. To receive and prepare the bill for second reading, a working group was set up on the committee, which included Ukrainian national deputies and executive officials. The text of the bill from the legislators received 8 comments, most of which were taken into account. The proposals take into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the grounds for refusing to issue a licence in the absence of data on the applicant in the single State Register of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs. The bill is accepted by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without notice. The adoption of the draft law will be an important step towards regulatory resolution and improvement of individual licensing issues, a system of relations between the state and business that will help to maintain equality of rights of operators and reduce financial pressure on Ukrainian entrepreneurs. Please support the committee's decision and adopt a bill as a whole, in a second reading and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u55	There's a vote on the proposal, your honorary colleagues. Take down the vote. Please, Xenia Lapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u56	I want to point out that my 5th amendment is only partially accounted for and not included in the part that I would just like to point out, I insist on it. This is the part that says, however, that the relevant specially authorized authority that runs this register should provide access on the official website to public information from the Single State Register and set up a list of the public information that we've already talked about here ten times that it's a problem that there is no free access to public information today. And I'm counting the minimum that should be disclosed. And I insist that this is very important. And in the context of this law, that is, replacing the need to get a statement, and in the context of the overall transparency of the relationship between business, power and consumers. I emphasize that this is a very important amendment. I'm asking you to support my editorial work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u57	Mikhail Vasilovich, please take the position of the committee on this matter. This is the 5-a correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u58	The working group that agreed with this amendment takes into account that the text of the amendment that was made for the second reading is more appropriate for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u59	There is an amendment to the 5th Kseniya Lápina vote with a proposal to take it fully into account. It's partially accounted for. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:55:52]] For the 18th. Correction not counted. I can't see who's still insisting on their amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on issues concerning the issue of licences]] [[Registration number 9022]] The chief legal department, I remind you, has no comment on the bill. Please vote. [[10:56:35]] For 271 The law is passed. A draft law on development and State support for small and medium-sized enterprises in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Mikhailo Chechetov. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich. This is Bill 9202.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! This is a very important bill. It has to do with the financial support of small businesses and businesses, which is especially important for its strategic development. Therefore, the working group is still working on a request to support the transposition of the bill into January of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the bill was passed on November 15th, more than a month later. I suggest you take the first reading, we don't have any other options. Once again, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy is barely working, almost none of which passed the bill, has been submitted to the Supreme Council. There is no alternative to compliance with the Rules in the Supreme Council, so please vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u62	Please Xenia Leapina, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u63	Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. I realize that there is some kind of personal misperception here, but the result is business and business. I don't understand why, because the working group worked and worked on the bill. And the only problem is that there was no committee meeting, we were already ready to approve this bill. Well, you don't have to try to get someone to ruin the big job that's been done, especially in the part that's about financing enterprise support. If we take the first reading, we'll actually destroy, even the possibility of financing these measures in a smart way, which corresponds to the Budget Code. You can't do that. Let's translate this bill for logical reasons, not emotional ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I think we'll decide by voting, and there's no underwater movement, we just have to organize work and make the right decisions. Believe me, we just have to work here. At the Conciliation Council and at the Supreme Council meetings, it was said that Kseniya Mikhailnna, that committees are largely not working, but are fighting for national happiness, that national happiness must be fought against with decisions. And it's not a single committee, it's a bunch of committees. And I've read to journalists that when we have a committee meeting for a week, they don't work, but at the state budget, for a large salary, they're accumulating loved ones for themselves. It's probably a job to agitate. And you're with me, I think you agree with that. We have to stop this blasphemy, talk to each other, and not work for a solid national salary. So there are two suggestions. The first proposal, the postponement of the bill. If the Supreme Council doesn't decide, it's going to vote first, like that. Let the Supreme Council make a decision. I am voting on the first proposal to postpone consideration of the draft Development Act and State support for small and medium-sized enterprises in Ukraine. [[Registration number 9202]] Please determine by vote. [[11:00:46]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. But let's just say that we didn't make the laws, then we voted for their postponement, and we didn't do anything. This is no longer the case. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on accreditation of conformity assessment bodies is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9389]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Mikhail Vasilovich Chechetov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u65	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the criticism is absolutely objective and correct. We have to work in Parliament, not at meetings, not for government money. So with regard to the second bill, first, thank you for your support. Therefore, there was really a need for business, small business and business to be placed on the shoulders in terms of financial support. Thank you so much for taking it. With regard to the next bill, he is not ready for second reading, but I ask to vote on the body of the law that was passed on first reading. What was voted on the first reading, let's take it to the second and put it to a point, yes. And the criticism is absolutely fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u66	I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on accreditation of conformity assessment bodies as a law. [[Registration number 9389]] Please vote. [[11:02:35]] For 272 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Non-State Pension Insurance is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee reviewed the bill on non-state pension insurance and prepared for second reading. [[0882]] The committee received 120 amendments to the bill, of which 117 were counted or partially counted, 3 were rejected. In general, we passed the Basic Law on Non-State Pension Insurance eight years ago, in 2003, it hasn't changed since then. So there's a bunch of issues that need to be resolved, and they're all resolved by this draft law. We are ready to consider in our second reading, taking into account what few suggestions have been rejected. We can start.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u68	What are some questions, warnings, objections? I can't see. I'm voting for a second-reading proposal and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Non-State Pension Insurance. [[0882]] Please vote. [[11:04:24]] For 244 The law is passed. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the defence mechanism is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 6644-d]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Kaletnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u69	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The adoption and practical implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the use of defence land will enable the improvement of the management mechanism of these lands. As a result of the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the reduction in the number of our military forces liberates these areas of military property. In view of the reform of the armed forces, 420 military towns, 7,028 objects located on land areas of an estimated area of 35,000 hectares, were released. In addition, according to the National Reform Programme, an additional 59 military towns, located in an area of 7,000 hectares [7,000 ha], are expected to be liberated. The standards envisaged in the bill are designed to improve the efficiency of the use of defence land. The implementation of excessive fixed military assets, along with the land in which it is located, will allow for a substantial increase in funding for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which is provided for annually in the Ukrainian State Budget by SP. First of all, the funds will be directed towards the development of the Armed Forces and social programs, the main of which include housing for more than 45,000 military personnel. The committee received 13 suggestions that were carefully worked out, some of them counted, and some were rejected. It is expected that the funds derived from the alienation of such land will be included in the state budget. Amendments to article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Armed Forces also provide that the alienation of land will take place in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In particular, I note that there is another proposal that has already come up during the committee’s consideration. And it tells us that prior to the alienation of land that contains objects of immovable military property that are subject to implementation. The land that is being liberated in the reform process not only by the Ukrainian Armed Forces but also by the land areas of the State Special Transport Service. This proposal is completely in line with the law, so I asked the national deputies to support the transcript and this proposal. As for the comments of the Chief Legal Authority, they were taken into account in the preparation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order to alienate the respective land. In view of the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted in second reading and in general as a bill - the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the use of defence land. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u70	Thank you. Now we'll go after the repairs. Bevenko, do you insist? No, it's not. Fish? Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, on behalf of the MP group Reform for the Future, we have tabled amendment number 3, which in principle proves the following. To date, the Law, which has been enacted, is in conflict with the existing Code of Budgets. Let me remind you that the current Budget Code does not have the definition of "use of defence," but it has the definition of "use of national defence." So this is the kind of amendment that we made in this direction that actually harmonizes the law that works, the law that we're considering, and the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. I don't understand why the profile committee turned her down. Because this amendment is designed to make this bill work, not stay on the shelves. Thank you. Please accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u72	Thank you. Your correction is not rejected, but partially counted. Because the bill is being passed by the Ministry of Defense, you wrote in this amendment, "used exclusively for national defence," and "national defence," then we change the point, and then we have to rework everything. It's just because of these editorials. And in fact, it's counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u73	Amendment number 3 shall be put to the vote. [[11:09:32]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Number 12, right? Now, let's go to 12 revisions. 12 revisions. Caplienne's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u74	Thank you, Your Honor. This amendment is essentially technical. What's she talking about? "To use the land of defense" we want to replace the words "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Why? "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" is what we have to say about this law. What is it? When you and I are guided by the implementation of the laws of the Cabinet, we will come with you to the famous issue of the Budget Code, which will not allow the Cabinet of Ministers to use exactly what is defined here by the implementation of land for national defence. So that's the law we need to refer to. This law alone regulates how and how money received from the implementation of this property will go to the need for the defence of the Ministry. Please vote on this amendment. It is designed to support this law, not against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u75	Thank you. If you were the author of this amendment, I ask you how the author of this amendment would agree that we would prescribe your amendment in this way, the words "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and in accordance with this law." Please support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I am voting on this precise amendment. Please vote. [[11:11:26]] For 237 The correction is being made, i.e. accepted. 13th, please, Caplienne's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u77	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the 13th amendment is aimed at keeping us from misunderstandings in the future. Today, there are articles in the Budget Code such as two, two, 23, 29th, 171st and 40th, which, in large account, does not allow money to be used in the way it is designed in this bill. With these rights, we have made, in fact, changes to the law in force. So that we can get our own money for defense in a ratio: 60 for defence needs, 40 percent for local development. I would like to remind you that the budget code for today will take all the money that will be removed through the implementation of military property in the next proportion. 90 per cent for local needs and 10 per cent for the state budget special fund. Where the Ministry of Defense is, we haven't seen anything. Then let us accept such amendments or make a separate law. Because the bill on this issue will not work. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u78	Would you please take the seat of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u79	Absolutely, absolutely motivated and correctly specified. But we wanted to support the committee. The point is, you agree that this is article 116 of the Rules. And these additions are required by a separate law, which we will then work on and amend to the Budget Code. We have no right by this law. Do you agree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u80	Don't you insist? Take it off. Roman Tchac, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I just want to remind you that we've discussed this bill three times in this room. Please! There are only four pages that are presented to us by our legal authorities! This bill contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that the exclusive right to regulate ownership is exercised by law! This bill is contrary to the Ukrainian Earth Code! This bill is contrary to the Code of Budgets of Ukraine! I urge you not to vote for this bill. You'll see, if most people now accept it, the President will veto it. Read what our legal authorities wrote. We had a very lively discussion on the committee. There was no unanimity support. So I urge everyone not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u82	Thank you. There are no objections to amendments, are there any other warnings? Please, Grigory Mikolaiovich, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u83	I thank Roman Volodymyrovich. Rightfully, we did not have the same unity, as in all other bills we did not have the same unity and support of every bill, including this. But most of the members of the committee are supported. I would only like to see, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that the amendments that have just been adopted under the transcript and in my report on the State Special Transportation Service to include it here, would like this to be supported and we will then correct it in the final edition. Thank you. Please support as a whole as a matter of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u84	Dear National Deputies! I put to the vote the first sentence of the adoption committee in the second reading and generally as a law, taking into account the amendment that was supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and also taking into account the addition that the committee head has made. In doing so, I note that the Chief Legal Authority has made substantial remarks to the bill. The draft law for adoption in general shall be voted upon. [[Registration number 6644-d]] Please vote. [[11:15:44]] For 233 The law is passed. A draft Food Safety Act for Ukraine is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Gregory Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u85	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Today we are looking at a second-reading draft of the Food Security Act of Ukraine, submitted by Kaletnik, Tereshuk, Bort, Sidelnik. [[Registration number 8370-1]] That was adopted by the Supreme Council on June 14, 2011. The committee considered the bill at its November 1, 2011, meeting, where a number of substantive amendments and comments were made to the committee. During the drafting of the bill in line with the comments made, a number of working groups and advisory meetings were held, which were attended by experts from the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food, representatives of agricultural scientific and educational institutions. In the process of drafting the bill after first reading, a number of proposals were received for improving and clarifying the individual provisions of the bill from the Ukrainian national deputies. In total, 81 received an amendment and a proposal, 67 of which were taken into account, almost all of them. The draft law is fundamental in the legislative system to the issue of food security in the country, as it defines the basic principles of food security, the basic positions on which specific decisions are to be made, the development and implementation of strategic and programmatic documents in the field. The provisions of the law will form the basis for the development of regulatory acts, targeted programmes and projects on the issue of food security for the State and, above all, the development of an agri-industrial complex. A number of regulatory mechanisms have been put in place to influence food security. For example, article 8 of the draft law stipulates that public food security policies are being developed in the area of food security. This highlights the basic orientations of national food security policy as set out in article 13. The draft law defines and legislatively establishes the limits of the individual most important food security indicators, such as the availability of government grain resources, the economic availability of food products for our citizens, and food independence. This requires the appropriate executive authorities to activate and improve their activities in order to ensure the achievement and maintenance of these indicators within the limits set. So not only do we stop at the physical availability of food, but we're talking about it. That the law regulates the creation of the necessary conditions for the financial capacity of all Ukrainian citizens to purchase food in the necessary quantities. Please support the adoption of the law in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u86	Thank you. By the way, let's do it, dear fellows. Danilenko. No, it's not. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u87	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u88	Please, the microphone. What is the correction? First?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u89	First. Third, rejected. In an article on the first draft, in the term "food security" after the words "necessary quantity," I suggested that I put out a term like this: "quality range at a price that does not exceed the average price of food in the last 6 months." An explanation of why I insist. Experience over the past years has shown that not always is the right number and range of food security for Ukrainian citizens. And after appropriate schemes by exporters, food prices can rise to such a level that citizens will not be able to buy life’s products that could endanger their lives. Therefore, I consider it necessary to introduce into the definition of food safety the price characteristics of food products.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u90	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u91	Thank you. The offer is very good, but its administration is virtually impossible. Over the last six months, you have to print out the average price and give some direction, fix it. Therefore, the fixing of such prices is simply not possible in terms of their administration and implementation, and so on: such price fixing at economically sound costs and costs for the production of the products will also lead to higher rates of pricing and prices for these food products themselves. So we acknowledged that this would be contrary to the current legislation and the valid international obligation of Ukraine, and unfortunately we were unable to take account of such an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u92	3 amendments are put to the vote, the author is Danilenko. [[11:21:43]] For-25 Correction not supported. 10 amendments, that's the same thing. I don't think there's any need to vote. The following amendment 54. Danilenko, are you insisting on her? It's on page 27. You don't insist, do you? So, 67th, Danielenko, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u93	In article 13, in determining the main directions of public policy and food security in the field of production and implementation of agriculture and food, I propose that the following point be added: to create the necessary financial base for the provision of national food producers with national currency credits at a interest rate of not more than five percent. I believe that this factor will be of real importance for the development of national production, for the creation of new enterprises in food production and for the promotion of national production.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u94	Thank you. Thank you for a fairly correct and substantive amendment, and I regret that it cannot be the subject of this bill. This amendment can be implemented through a new bill and I invite you to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u95	There is a vote of 67 amendments to the People’s Deputy Danilenko. [[11:23:51]] For-26 No correction supported. The following changes. The rest is all accounted for. 76th, Danilenko. Are you insisting on her? Microphone. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u96	I insist. So, honourable national MPs, in article 13, in defining the main policies of public policy in the form of food security in the field, I would stress that foreign economic policy should be complemented by a new point of such content. "To protect domestic food producers by partially restricting the import of foreign goods that are properly produced in Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u97	Thank you. It's just that I can confirm once again that this is essentially what it takes to protect our producers. But it is a pity that we have already entered into a series of international agreements with you, in which we do not have the right to do so today. That's why I thank you for this amendment. But it will be contrary to all the agreements already made by Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u98	Operated 76 amendments to the vote. [[11:25:39]] For-26 Correction not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. A number of comments were made to the bill by the Chief Legal Office. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Food Security Act of Ukraine. Registration number 8370-1. Please vote. [[11:26:22]] For 270. The law is passed. Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland" and the "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" faction, call for a recess to be held to hold consultations on the issue of the day's order and to make statements. So let's make this happen, dear fellows. I ask that Adam Ivanovich continue to hold meetings, and I ask the leaders of the MP factions and groups to meet in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u99	We are considering the draft Law on the Specificities of Agricultural Insurance with State Financial Support. [[Registration number 5063]] [[second reading]] Report to the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Marina Volodymyrna Perestenko, please. The committee head will report, please, Grigory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! It should be noted that agricultural production around the world is associated with systemic, catastrophic natural risks, and agrossing is one of the most effective methods of managing risks in an agro-industrial complex. Agricultural risk insurance around the world is an important element of the financial and credit insurance system of agricultural producers. The first and main objective of agricultural risk insurance is to partially or fully compensate the producer for the loss of crops that can be caused by adverse natural phenomena. As far as agricultural production is concerned, I don’t think anyone needs to be explained, since this is happening under the open sky. The second objective of insurance is to improve the financial position of the agricultural producer from the point of view of his creditworthiness. Credit institutions of all types: banks, credit unions, private individuals prefer the agricultural producer who has the guarantee of maintaining a certain level of income in the event of natural disasters and loss of crops. Unfortunately, the strategy for developing the agricultural insurance system has been under discussion in Ukraine for almost nine years, but until now it has not been created. The underdevelopment of insurance significantly reduces the development potential of the agricultural sector, as the economic performance in this sector is greater than in any other sector, depending on weather conditions. So, honourable colleagues, a bill on the specialities of insurance for agricultural products with state financial support, which was introduced to you today in the first reading, adopted by the Supreme Council on October 21, 2009. I want to immediately answer the question: Why is the bill put forward for consideration only now? For one thing, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations has considered many different concepts for the development of the agro-prudential market. Second, an administrative reform was initiated. And since the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food is also a direct subject of insurance, its status and scope have not yet been clearly defined. A number of working sessions, meetings, and thus a concept of support for the bill were developed by the committee in the drafting of the bill. According to the results of the work, 131 amendments were considered, of which 115 are taken into account, 6 are essentially taken into account. Regarding the comments of the Chief Legal Authority on the second reading of the draft law, these proposals were finalized and introduced. Therefore, I ask you, Your Honor, to support the initiatives of the people's agrarian deputies and to adopt the bill as a second reading and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u101	Thank you. You've heard that the absolute majority of the amendments are counted, the ones that aren't counted now we're going to see. Tereschuk, 3rd Amendment. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Four. Booth. Don't insist. 13th. Booth. Don't insist. It's him, Booth. Amendment 70. Don't insist. Booth. 77th. Don't insist. 84th. Booth. Correction of 92nd Booth. Don't insist. All the other amendments are included. I put to the vote a proposal for adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the Law on Characteristics and Insurance of Agricultural Products with State Financial Support. [[Registration number 5063]] Please vote. [[11:32:13]] For 240 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on strengthening land use control]] [[Registration number 8385]] [[second reading]] The report is Roman Tjak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! For your consideration, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine is being prepared for a second reading. [[on strengthening land use control]] [[Registration number 8385]] The second reading of the bill included 11 amendments. Taking into account the proposals made and the rights that came from the legislators in preparing the draft law for second reading, the legislative initiative of the bill has been brought together to merge two existing laws into one that does not meet the stated purpose of the bill in strengthening the control of land use. The Committee considered the draft law at its meeting on 20 December this year and decided, following its consideration, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening land use control. [[Registration number 8385]] And by the way, that's exactly what the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council said about the rejection of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u103	Yes, dear fellows, let's look at the amendments. They're all accounted for. No one insists on confirming an amendment or another? You don't? Then I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Amendment Act to some Ukrainian legislative acts to increase control over land use. The Committee's conclusions are rejected. [[Registration number 8385]] The main legal authority is to reject. But first, I'm proposing the adoption of the law. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:34:56]] For the 15th. Yes, there is a second reading proposal. I'm betting on a second reading proposal. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:35:18]] For 256 The bill is being re-readed. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex. [[on favourable conditions for domestic machinery companies]] [[Registration number 8764]] Report to the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Perestenko Marina Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u104	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, before your consideration, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex is proposed. [[on favourable conditions for domestic machinery companies]] [[No. 8764]] The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations considered draft Law 8764 in its second reading. In discussing the bill’s position, the Ukrainian National Deputies stressed that the content of the bill did not correspond to the name. In fact, the bill stimulates the collection of agricultural techniques from spare parts and nodes produced in other countries. The bill essentially extends the terms of the definition of "fatherland technology and equipment for agri-industrial complex" and "domestic machinery for an agro-industrial complex." Thus, resident companies that import foreign entrants in Ukraine get the opportunity at the expense of the state budget to purchase them and fill their countries' budgets. This approach is causing damage to Ukraine's state budget and will lead to the halting of domestic machinery factories that produce complex agricultural techniques -- more than 300 businesses in Ukraine. Establishing a permanent requirement for a government budget to issue a separate budget on a regular basis annually to the State budget for the priority development of domestic machinery for an agro-industry complex without restrictions on a certain period will require the provision of additional public budget resources annually for such purposes irrespective of the state of development of the specified area of the economy and agriculture as a whole, its provision of special technology and equipment. The current legislative regulation on the development of domestic machinery for agri-industry is obvious, and requires additions and proposals to other Ukrainian laws. In particular, about the state support for agriculture in Ukraine and about the system of engineering and technology for the agro-industrial complex. An effective mechanism needs to be put in place to accelerate the release of modern domestic competition technology for Ukraine's agri-industrial complex. Taking into account the results of the discussion of the bill and the appeal of representatives of domestic machinery factories, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be rejected. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u105	Finish up. Yes, Your Honor, Bill 8764, you have heard the committee's decision, the committee proposes to reject the bill that we adopted in the first reading. There's a table here that's comparable, but when the committee accepted the proposals of the deputies, it didn't take any of those proposals into account, because once again, I'm underlining the committee's decision to reject the bill. Piglets, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u106	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, had to make the following changes in the drafting of the bill. Article 1, paragraph 3, should read “National technology and equipment for the agro-industry complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u107	Wait, please tell me, is this in the compare table?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u108	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u109	Unfortunately, it's not in the comparative table, so it's out of the voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u110	And he didn't make any adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u111	You have not amended the table. Those who applied the amendments to the correlation table, I stress again, are unaccounted for, but we can count who insists with the session hall. Well, that's it. Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u112	Adam Ivanovich is a respected, respected colleague, in principle, my amendments are consistent with my speech when the Law of Ukraine was adopted in the first reading, where I proposed to leave the article of the law, which suggests that domestic technology be regarded as a technique that is not less than 50 percent of the fitter. I want to add that, well, almost a thousand domestic factories are practically cooperative in the production of domestic technology. Of course, my amendment is not accepted because the name does not correspond to the substance of the law. The point of the law is that it destroys a domestic manufacturer. I propose a vote for rejection, for decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u113	Catherine Semenovna, are you insisting on your fifth amendment? Yes, the 5th Amendment of Samolik is voting, please identify yourself. [[11:42:08]] For-50 Not supported. Others don't insist? Then I'm going to put two proposals to the vote, more faithfully, the first proposal I'm going to make to the committee. And then we'll figure it out. It is suggested that the committee reject the draft law amending the Ukrainian law. [[Registration number 8764]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:43:01]] For-51 Not supported. Then it's suggested that we adopt the law on fostering the development of domestic machinery for the agro-industry complex, in the first reading. [[on favourable conditions for domestic machinery companies]] [[Registration number 8764]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:43:37]] For 206 Not supported. The bill is rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 172, Fatherland – 0, Our Ukraine – 7, Communists – 0, Reforms for the Future – 0, National Party – 17, non-fractional – 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u114	Once again, we could, but you know, the committee. Well, I'm asking you to re-read it. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:44:31]] For 239. A second reading of the bill. We're hearing a question: a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the procedure for setting housing and utilities tariffs. [[Registration number 8641-d]] But the profile committee, Vladimir Rybak, asks, as does the Law, that they be considered in the complex, after 16 hours we will consider them. [[8474]] Then the next question. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts in relation to the optimization of the functions of the central executive body in the sphere of ecology and natural resources. [[concerning the granting of documents of a permissive nature]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number 8617]] Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u115	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear fellow national MPs! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the second reading introduces a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the optimization of the functions of the central executive body in the sphere of ecology and natural resources. [[concerning the granting of documents of a permissive nature]] [[Registration number 8617]] The bill is aimed at bringing legislation into the environmental field in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act "On Free System in the Field of Economic Activity". [[The Water, Land, Forest Codes of Ukraine, Ukrainian Laws on Air Protection, Waste, Environmental Expertise.]] The Chief Legal Office proposes to reject the bill, particularly for the following reasons. The draft law was adopted on the first reading of September 20, 2011. [[Registration number 8617]] At the same time, on September 9, 2011, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Reforming and Improving the Resilience System in the Field of Environmental Protection, the rational and inexorable use of natural resources and environmental security, the reduction of regulatory pressure on management subjects, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, partially reiterating draft Ukrainian law registration number 8617. [[Registration number 9139]] These bills regulate the same circle of issues and duplicate essentially the position of regulating the same social relations. However, the bill's registration number 9136, presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, is more comprehensive and systematic in regulating and improving the enabling system in the field of environmental protection, as opposed to the bill that we are currently considering. In line with the findings of the General Legal Authority and taking into account the lessons learned, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster proposes to reject the bill. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, the situation was understandable, although the committee prepared a comparative table for the second reading. So let's go over the comparative table and follow the outcome of the bill, including the comparative table, we'll make the right decision. Carmazine doesn't insist. Which of the authors of the proposals he made, but they're not included, though. Glazonov, 21st. Don't insist. Dutch, 25th, don't insist. Glazonov, 42nd. Don't insist. Glasunov, 69th. Don't insist. Glazonov, 76th. Don't insist. It's 77th. Don't insist. Thus, honourable colleagues, according to a comparative table, the authors do not insist, that is, if accepted, they will be accepted in the same way that the committee prepared. But the committee and the Chief Legal Authority are unanimous in rejecting this bill. That is why I am voting on the rejection of Bill 8617: amending certain legislative acts in connection with the optimization of the functions of the central executive body in the sphere of ecology and natural resources. [[concerning the granting of documents of a permissive nature]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:50:05]] For-19 Not supported. I put to the vote a second sentence: the adoption of the law in the second reading and generally according to the comparative table prepared by the profiling committee. Please vote. [[11:50:35]] For 251 The law is passed. We're talking about the bill on metrology and metrology. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 8562, 8562-1]] The committee headed by the Royal is asking for a transfer. Although we passed this bill on November 15. Today we have December 22, which means we can work on it. I'm making a proposal to the committee on transfer. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:51:34]] For 1 Unmoved. So we're looking at a bill. Since the profile committee has not prepared a comparative table for second reading, we have one way out: to adopt the Metrology and Metrology Act as we voted in the first reading of November 15. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 8562-1]] Please vote. [[11:52:19.]] For 265 Thank you. The law is passed. We listen to the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Review of Fees of Certain Taxes and Congregations. [[Registration number 9356]] [[second reading]] Report to the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u117	Thank you. Honorable Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, prepared the committee for consideration in the second reading of Bill 9356, which deals with the indexation of rates in the Tax Code. The index is placed under the responsibility of*** to the rules of the Tax Code, where every year we have to conduct indexation at all types of rates, i.e. resource payments, excise duties and so on. In all, 73 proposals came to the bill, some of them included. The main part of the proposal, which was rejected, was rejected primarily because it wasn't. The proposals did not match the level of the index set by the Cabinet of Ministers for the following year. The committee is therefore ready for consideration in the second reading and in the whole of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u118	Yes, dear colleagues, who insists on their amendments? None. Then I put to the vote the adoption of the Amendments Act to the Ukrainian Tax Code to review the rates of certain taxes and congregations. [[Registration number 9356]] Please vote. [[11:54:33]] For 215 The factions, please. Region Party - 165. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please support. [[11:55.]] For 240 We're back. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Amendment Act to the Ukrainian Tax Code to review the rates of certain taxes and congregations. Please vote. [[11:55:29]] For 239. The law is passed. Sorry, I missed Bill 8452-Thank you – draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act and other Ukrainian legislation. [[on description and import duty rates for certain goods]] Second reading. Reports Homutinnik Vitaly, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy. Registration number 8452-d. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u119	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! 8452 assisted by the committee. Amendments to the Customs Tariff Act of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on description and import duty rates for certain goods]] All positions are in line with the World Trade Organization standards that we must accept upon our commitment after joining the WTO and are due to operate on January 1, 2012. So the committee considered all the proposals; they were all in agreement. Therefore, the proposal to adopt the bill in the second reading and in general as proposed by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, who has any comments? Tuck, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u121	I wanted to ask you, Mr. Head, but I still wanted to ask you, here's the second amendment of my colleague Igor Zvaric, it's rejected. It's about setting the import rate at 5 percent, I know that consent is the Customs Council, the Mine Economics. After all, what's the argument? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u122	Thank you for asking. We agreed with the drafters, and they separately introduced a similar bill, which has already been considered by the committee and has been supported. In order for us not to have a legislature, we agreed with the authors that we are adopting this law in this paper and we are considering separately the one you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u123	Clearly, they are satisfied with the answer. Thus, no one insists anymore. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act and other Ukrainian legislation. [[on description and import duty rates for certain goods]] [[Registration number 8452-d]] Please vote. [[11:58:37]] For 269 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on certain matters relating to the payment of taxes under the terms of the distribution agreement]] [[Registration number 9358]] [[second reading]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft, as discussed in the first reading, refers to amendments to the Tax Code on certain matters of taxation under the terms of the Product Distribution Agreement. The first - reading committee noted that we believe that taxes should be paid with money. The bill was proposed and proposed to allow for appropriate distribution agreements, with the mutual agreement of the parties to pay their taxes in a natural way. The committee remains in its positions of predecessors that taxes, if any, should be paid to the budget, should be paid with money. So the committee’s decision was to reread the second reading in order to discuss, including with the authors, a possible solution to the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, there is a table prepared. True, the committee’s decision on these amendments was not taken. And we have a first-reading editor, and there's an offer: send for the second-reading read again. So first I'm going to make a proposal to the committee for re-reading, and then I'm going to define. I propose to the committee: to re-read the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on certain matters relating to the payment of taxes under the terms of the distribution agreement]] [[Registration number 9358]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:01:13]] For-9 Not supported. Then I propose a vote to adopt the Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation in the first reading. [[on certain matters relating to the payment of taxes under the terms of the distribution agreement]] [[Registration number 9358]] Please vote. [[12:01:44]] For 236 The law is passed. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 31 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, we held meetings of the Conciliation Council at the request of two factions. On this point, Dmitri Schlemko will make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u127	Statement by Julia Timoshenko. "Dear Ukrainian people! As I watched from the Lukyanov prison for the horror, absurdity and absurdity of my name-related trial, I decided to give up any part of this disgraceful trial and to give the court and the courts of the first and second institutions. Today, there is no judicial system or justice as such in Ukraine. Seeking the truth and justice of the Ukrainian courts is a futile matter. The authorities, the Yanukovitch regime, have destroyed the judiciary. Instead of the people whose basic professional calling to seek truth and to execute a righteous and fair trial, the judges' robes had upside down and the executioners who carried out any command of power. There is no honor, no justice, no truth in the courts, only wickedness, no courtship, and no abuse of human beings. I believe this will be the case as long as Janukovic is in power in Ukraine. And just before that, there is no point in waiting for the Ukrainian courts of justice. And what honest judgment can it be when, in the eyes of the world, these judges, without hiding or ashamed, constantly lie, twist facts, falsify a case. When evidence of innocence suddenly disappears from the case. When the court does not want to hear the defense’s witnesses, the evidence for your benefit is recorded in the indictment. What is the search for the truth when you are suddenly caught in a trap and dragged by a train to the medical center to prove that you can walk? When you've got people breaking into your cell with photos, movies, shamelessly filming, using your helplessness, and then mounting plasma and shower cabins there. When you are injected with painkillers every two hours, you claim to be the most healthy person on the planet. When the court sits in a cell near a parachutist for 12 hours, though the text of the rulings is made ready in the morning. When you are finally arrested again in your cell for graham and bedridden, setting that decision free. How you can believe in a court where you cannot even get into your case despite all your demands, protests, and statements! What justice is involved when the prosecution’s arguments are based on cables on a home shoe, photographed by a special clerk’s paparazzi. No, it's not. It's not 1937, it's the second year of being in power that has already rejected the country beyond our era, the age of elementary humanity and order. This is the original order and cave age in its worst manifestations. In these circumstances, I see neither the appropriateness nor the need to continue to support the farce in the Ukrainian courts. I will not seek the truth in them, for it is not there. If they want, let them play.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u128	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u129	Let them play in their own misdeeds, demonstrating their immorality and deceit throughout the world. I believe that the European Court of Human Rights will assess the absurdity and crime that the Ukrainian authorities call a court. At the same time, I want to point out that despite all the torture and torture they have failed to break me and will never succeed. I continue to fight because even here behind bars I feel more freer than all the Yanks together have been taken for the most powerful parks. I continue my fight for a free, happy and democratic Ukraine. They may kill me, but they will never kill my proud country and my great people. The truth will still win. And the free Ukraine will soon be up in the world. But the dark age that goes on now will soon pass and the sun will rise over the country, it will be soon, I'm sure. And not April 31st, as it was written in one of the forged protocols of my case, but much earlier. Hold it, believe it, fight it!" Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you of the outcome of the Conciliation Council meeting with the faction leaders. At the Conciliation Council, the draft law on decriminalization, the humanization of article 365 of the Criminal Code, was discussed. The Supreme Council of Ukraine agreed that at 16 o'clock, it would consider a proposal on whether the Supreme Council of Ukraine would agree to consider the issue in part of its inclusion in the agenda. That is to say, it would be kind of a rating review of this issue and a rating vote to make sure that, unless a positive decision is made, not to burn the bill and leave the door open to continue the dialogue in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But the consideration of this issue of the willingness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the proposal to include the bill in the agenda will be considered in the procedure for consideration of inclusion in the agenda. So the initiator's report and the committee's report, two for, two against. And then we have a sort of rating vote. After this discussion was concluded, we also discussed the proposal to move to another issue, namely the 2012 draft of the State Budget of Ukraine. That's the decision. Please, Your Honor, discuss it in such a way as not to interfere with the process of our plenary meeting and prepare for the 16th hour. Let us move on, Your Honor, to the question of the election and release of judges. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the session room so that we can make decisions. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Pinchuk Mikola Grigorovich. Mikolo Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u131	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! According to part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Judicial and Judicial Law, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges carried out a review of compliance by candidates with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of the Act. She also discussed the appeal of citizens, public organizations, businesses, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities, and local self - government authorities to the activities of candidates for judges who came to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine as a matter of urgency during the Commission’s consideration of the issue of recommending them to serve as judges. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, the submission of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decision to recommend candidates for judges on an indefinite basis. The following draft regulations are proposed for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u132	Dear National Deputies! Decision 9544, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u133	It is proposed to select judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges: To elect judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges: the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Berez Victoria Ivanovna, Sheremet Nadia Olegnowna; the Court of Appeal of the Zagorsky region of Alexander Aleksandyovich; Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal, Olefirenko Natalija Anatoliyevna; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, the House of Bogdan Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, no objection? The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[Registration number 9544]] Please vote. [[12:41:42]] For 260 Decision taken. Decision 9544-1, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u135	I propose that the judges who have been elected on an untimely basis be elected judges: the Court of Appeal of the Viennese District of Holota Ludmila Olegnowna; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Smélik Svetlan Grigorovna; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Tropak Alexandru Vasilovna; Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal Malish Natalija Ivanovna, Czerdenko Vladislav Evgeniovich, Szczerbak Andrija Anatoliyovich, Yasenov Tetjan Ivanovna; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Makaryk Volodymyr Jaroslavovich; Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal Kravchenk Kostin Volodimirovich; The Equal Court of Appeal in Bouchin Galina Bogdanovna; Obolonian District Court of Kiev, Rome, Eugene Petrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings? The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption is put to the vote. [[Registration number 9544-1]] Please vote. [[12:43:25]] For 266 Decision taken. Now, let's do the 9544-2 project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u137	So, regarding the candidate to serve as judge at the Raven City Court in the province of Timoschuk, Alexander Jaroslavovich. At present, a complaint has been filed against the victims of the Ternopil District Court of Justice regarding the closing of the criminal case against Timoschuk Alexander Jaroslavovich. This case is scheduled for December 26 of this year. Timothy himself sent a telegram indicating that he had been on fixed - treatment since December 21 and would not be able to appear at a plenary meeting. This is what happened. Because of the decision to close the criminal case against this candidate, and this ruling is being charged to the victims, and its consideration has not yet been carried out, I propose that this issue be removed from the agenda of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u138	Mikola Sherschun, please. Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u139	Mikola Shershun. I would like Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I very much want the Supreme Council to be respected. For the fourth time today, someone is being appointed judge; a person who has 300 days left in the hospital on these days; a person on whom two criminal cases are hanging, two, Mikolo Grigorovitch. Here's the answer from the Attorney General's Office. And I have no doubt today that this man cannot work as a judge. I just have one question: Who's been pushing this guy hard for the fourth time?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u140	Please, Paul Sulkowski. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u141	It's very sad, the honorable are present, and the national MPs, and the judges. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have been repeatedly since 2005, for the third time, twice was the vote – the person was not missed by Parliament. There are two criminal cases. The first criminal case, which has already been closed by the Ternopil prosecutor’s office on several occasions. The courts annul these rulings. The man found himself in this criminal case, these two brothers of this judge, the disabled of the second group today. The second criminal issue is that Lutsk’s car kills a person, and the car disappears. The investigation has been investigated. This car belongs to this judge, Timothy. But the courts are like these today, covering such a judge, thief, criminal. I think we should end this land, this disgrace!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to ask that if there are grounds for critical assessments, but the court can say it is a criminal or not. We're civilized here with you. Valerius Beales, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u143	Dear Mikola Grigorovich, I'm here. Look at the judges, and you'll find me too. I have one question for you: Please tell me, did Judge Tereshuk make appropriate court decisions on behalf of Ukraine for these six years, or was he in the hospital all the time? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u144	Just a minute. There's still a presentation by the people's deputy Matchuk on this subject, and then you're going to give an answer to all the comments and suggestions. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u145	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make myself clear. During the past six years, he has not worked as a judge at all, but during this time he has received almost 600,000 dollars in salary, material aid. And it's 534 days she's been hospitalized. The last two invitations to the Supreme Council were also ignored by this man. My suggestion is, don't take it, don't delay it, you have to solve it and get it out of order. It's already crossed all reasonable boundaries. Do you understand? How many can you trample in the same place? The place is bad, the place is ugly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u146	Thank you. Mikola Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u147	Honorable National MPs, all this time Judge Timothychuk, when his mandate was over, did not make a decision on behalf of Ukraine. He did some technical work, generalized in court, but he didn't make any decisions. With regard to today’s situation, you, like no one, can solve it with certainty, either yes or yes. I agree that five years later this situation cannot be considered. You have to come to the common denominator and figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u148	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u149	Dear reporter, Vladimir Yavorowski, tell me, please explain, everyone knows what a judge he is. There's already this one here, this note about someone pulling it. I don't think this is just happening by accident. And then we wonder where the Kirievs come from, where the Sitajles come from, where the eyes are open, and they know what they're doing. And we wonder where they're coming from with all this nonsense and all this disdain? Where does it come from? That's how it gets here. So who's pulling anyway? Can you call? How did it happen that for so many years, the person with these chauffeurs, and we have nothing to do here, and we figure out, we solve his fate? Why is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u150	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please, Alexander Efraemov, the final speech. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u151	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I think there's an opinion in this room, and I'm asking you to put a question to the vote on this person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm leading you to your knowledge that we received a telegram today, and I received a telegram. "In connection with the hypertonic crisis on December 21st, I'm on stationary treatment, and I can't show up for a plenary session." It seems that just before the plenary meeting, a hypertonic crisis occurs when the issue is considered. I understand the responsibility of the moment. We've been discussing this. Please don't scream. We discussed this issue at one of the previous sessions, expressed serious claims, and again there were no judges. So as I follow the formal procedure, I will put to the vote a motion to postpone the case concerning the appointment of Timothy. The election of Timoschuk as Judge of the Ravensz City Court of the Plains Region is inconsequential. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine doesn't support this, I'm going to put a vote on the election of the judge. If the Supreme Council doesn't support it, it's a negative decision. Is the offer understood? Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote for the first sentence to postpone the consideration of the appointment of Judge Timothychuk as judge on an urgent basis in connection with his report on the disease. I'd like you to determine by vote. It's about putting an end to the question. [[12:52:57]] For 1 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for the election of Timoschuk Alexander Jaroslavovich as Judge of the Ravensz City Court of the Plains Region on an uninterrupted basis. [[Registration number 9544-2]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:53:26]] For-0 The decision is not taken. The verdict is obvious. Please, draft regulation. [[Registration number 9544-3]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u153	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I propose that judges who have been elected on an open-ended basis be elected to the positions of judges: Dnipropetrov's Court of Appeal Shirobokov Ludmila Petrovna; Kyiv’s Court of Appeal, Domansk Marine Leonidivna
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, are there any warnings? I can't see. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges as a verdict. [[Registration number 9544-3]] Please vote. [[12:54:43]] For 280 Decision taken. Now it's a draft decision. [[Registration number 9544-4]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u155	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I propose to refer to the judge of the Kharkiv Administrative Court of Appeal on an untimely basis, formerly elected Bersov Hennady Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u156	Is there a warning? I can't see. I'm betting on a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to elect a judge as a verdict. [[Registration number 9544-4]] Please vote. [[12:55:40]] For 272 Decision taken. Now, draft decision, proposed to your mind, 9544-5. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u157	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I propose to select judges previously elected without delay in the positions of judges: the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region of Makarov Mikola Alexiyovich; The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk district of Biline Tetjan Ivanovna; The Court of Appeal of the Odessa District of Pribylov Vadim Mikhailovich. Lviv's Administrative Court of Appeal, Gulid Roman Methodiusovich, Mikulu Oksana Ivanovna, Rybauk Andrija Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any comments? None. This is a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree for adoption as a decision on the election of judges. [[Registration number 9544-5]] Please vote. [[12:57:02]] For 275 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome on your behalf the judges whom we have just elected to office on an untimely basis and to wish them eternal service to the laws. Thank you. I invite you to report to the head of the Justice Council of Kolesnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u159	Hello. Dear National Deputies, Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, your attention is given to the draft Decision on the release of Torchinsky Ludmila Alexandrovna from the office of the judges of the Odessa Economic Court for violating the oath. [[Number 9300-1]] It is called to a meeting of the Supreme Council for the second time. And there's a report of her. The report on the matter in the Supreme Council, served, announced on the phone, is her second call in the session. Please address the question of the possibility of hearing this question without Torchinsky Ludmila Alexandrovna. The practice was that, on the second occasion, if for no good reason, we considered these issues and the Supreme Administrative Court confirmed this practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u160	Honorable National Deputies, the judge on whom it is proposed to make a decision regarding the dismissal of a judge in connection with the violation of an oath, are now on leave. There is a corresponding telegram, and there is also a letter from the head of the Economic Court of Odessa. On the basis of her statement, the judge of the Odessa Economic Court of Turkey is on leave from 28.11 to 30.12.2011. So what are we going to put off then?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u161	I don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u162	We're putting it off, aren't we? Ladies and gentlemen, there is no objection to delaying consideration of this matter until the judge is returned from leave. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u163	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you don't think we're making people laugh all over the country. On the day that the judge takes his leave, on the very day that the Supreme Council is discussed, on two days, it is simply a game of law that we unfortunately support and encourage here. If a person does not go to work for two days, he will be dismissed by the same judges. And when they don't come here and use the same thing, it's the right thing to do. I propose that we ask the question and close the subject. In general, we should not go further on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u164	Just a minute. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, is this the first time we've considered questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u165	No, we are dealing with this issue for the second time. For the first time, the meeting was withdrawn because of the absence of a meeting of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u166	This is the second time we've had a meeting, the first time we haven't considered this issue of the Supreme Council's guilt. Therefore, in view of such differing opinions, I will put to the vote the first proposal to postpone consideration of the matter in view of the fact that the official leave document, if not, will be considered in substance. I bet the vote on the first motion to postpone consideration of the draft Supreme Council Regulation. [[Registration number 9300-1]] About the delay. Please identify yourself. [[13:00:35]] For -6 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the release of a judge (registration number 9300-1). To release Torchinsky Ludmila Alexandrovna from office of the judge of the Odessa Economic Court in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u167	What? Take off the vote, please. Upstairs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u168	Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, I have a question of such meaning. You say you're breaking an oath. I'd really like to know what the breach of an oath is more specifically, because, well, it's a very swollen formulation. What did he specifically break that he did wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u169	Thank you. Torchinska Ludmila Aleksandrovna was found to have breached her oath for the following: to order illegal court orders in 8 cases that led to the intervention of some 10 businesses in the internal organization and business; to prevent and block their activities throughout Ukraine; and to block the execution of valid decisions by other courts. All the facts of the systematic violations of the judges set up by the High Council of Justice and a unanimous decision was taken to submit to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u171	The decision of the High Council of Justice is not a charge. The Supreme Administrative Court did not give an assessment on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, you have the essence of the problem on page 10. I am voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Torchinska Ludmila Alexandrovna from the office of the judges of the Odessa Economic Court in connection with the violation of the judge's oath. [[Registration number 9300-1]] Please vote. [[13:02:48]] For 264 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u174	Now Project Rule 9456, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u175	The Supreme Council of Justice at its meetings on 1, 14, 30 November this year and on 14 December this year, in accordance with article 126, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, discussed materials on the release of judges from positions under general circumstances. However, she decided to make a corresponding submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In all cases, their real will, or compulsion to make such a decision, has been determined. Bill No. 9456 on the discharge of judges: Dhubu Nadia Mikhail's Judge of the Makarov District Court of Kyiv County, in connection with the application for resignation; Solovovy Nadija Mikolayev Judge of the District Court of the Kyiv Region, in connection with the application for resignation; and Ribc’s Ludmila Ivanovna, District Court Judge of Lugansk, in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that since 7.12. in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a statement of such content has been made by the judge of the Obukhiv District Court of Kyiv district of Solovya Nadia Mikolayovna. "Please postpone consideration of my application for discharge from the post of Judge of the District Court of Kiev for resignation to the next sitting, in connection with the disease. I want to participate in the examination of the application." Now there's Hope Mikolayevna Solovyov?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u177	Santa's hope is not present. The statement was also made on October 17, 2011, that she wanted to be absent, and this is the second time. And we, in practice, have found that when we consider making a decision to resign a judge, their appearance is optional. What should he know? 65 years ago, what other valid reasons could there be? We found out there was no foreign influence. She wrote, "In connection with the achievement of the 65-year term."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, I see. Let's do this so that we can formally follow the procedure here. I will put to the vote first the proposal for the release of two judges, and separately I will put to the vote for the release of Solovyov from the position of judge so that they can take a decision accordingly. No objections? I mean, considering her statement. There is a motion for the adoption of the draft Order on the Liberation of Judges as a stand by removing the name of the Solovyov Hope from it. [[Registration number 9456]] Please vote. [[13:05:52]] For 276 Decision taken. Now I'm betting on the vote. Please, the Sulkov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u179	Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u180	Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u181	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, director of the faction of the Party of the Regions, made a very clever, balanced offer. And we must always maintain that offer. If a candidate is even sabotaging a judge and the hospital does not appear because of the various leaves, there is such a suggestion that a serious illness, whether an operation or not, can be taken into account. And the fact that he's got a black eye, or he's got something there, something else combed up, and he's taking hospitals, I don't think we need to let that happen, or else we're compromising ourselves as parliamentarians. And here we want to help, after all, the High Council of Justice and the Commission. End, Your Honor, on one hand, as if you were in favor of your release, and on the other hand, you want to protect yourself, because where a member or the High Council of Justice or commission has a supporter. We have to get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u182	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u183	Thank you. I want to point out that there is no criterion that is sick or very ill in the law. There is a hospital letter that gives reason to believe that there are valid reasons to be absent or not. So when we make decisions, perhaps in my heart I feel that he is abusing his position, but we should act exclusively within the framework of current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you, let's stick to mutual tolerance, not show distrust. Because when we demonstrate mistrust, we demonstrate in the same way that we do it in one way or another. That is why I am now voting on the proposal to release the judge of the District Court of Kiev of the Solovy Hope of Mikolayivna in connection with the application for resignation. Please vote. [[13:08:13]] For 274 Decision taken. Now draft regulation 9456-1, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u185	On the release of judges from office: Bordachov Valerija Mikolaiovich, Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in connection with the application for resignation; The example of Anatolia Mikhailovich of the Court of Appeal of Luhansk-in relation to the application for resignation; Franz Vladimir Josephovich of the Court of Appeal in connection with the application for resignation; The Jankoj Regional Court of the Autonomous Republic of Smyrnov Zha Petrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Alexeieva Mikola Vasilovich of the Land Court of the Žitomir Region - in connection with the achievement of sixty-five years. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u186	Dear National Deputies! No warning? It's a bill from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the release of judges. [[Registration number 9456-1]] Please vote. [[13:09:17]] For 274 Decision taken. Project Order 9456-2, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u187	On the dismissal of judges: Gorjun's Ludmila Ivanovna, European City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in connection with the application for discharge at your own request; Dranchuk Pavel Yuriovich of the Dolin District Court of Kirovograd, in view of the impossibility of exercising his health authority; Saphonova Volodymira Vasilovich, judge of the Balaklav District Court of Sevastopol, in view of the inability to exercise his health authority. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u188	Dear National Deputies! Is there a point to this? None. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree 9456-2 on the release of judges. Please vote. [[13:10:17]] For 273 Decision taken. And draft Decree 9456-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u189	On the release of judges: Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Gitomire District of Rafal, Irina Mikolayevna, in connection with the application for discharge at your own request; Daviskib Nadia Fedorovna, Judge of the Court of Appeal of Zaporez Region, in connection with the filing of the resignation application; Qucia Eugenia Mikhailnovna, Judge of the Anakyi District Court of Donetsk, in connection with the application for discharge at your own request; Orinko Valentina Volodymyrna, judge of the Bobrinecki District Court of Kirovograd County, due to the application for resignation; Puppo Larissa Dmitry of the Dnipropetrov District Economic Court, in connection with the achievements of the Judge for sixty-five years. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a point to this project? None. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decree on the release of judges. [[Registration number 9456-3]] Please vote. [[13:11:32]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, let me also thank the judges who have worked honestly in their posts, and today, in view of their health, the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to resign has been made in connection with reaching the age limit. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the appointment of out-of-court local elections is now suggested to your mind. Huh? And then we'll go. Well, I told you. Please, Sergey Petrovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u191	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule at its meetings on December 14 and 21, 2011, discussed the concerns of individual local councils regarding the appointment of successive elections in 17 local governments. Especially 13 village heads and 4 village heads. In connection with the suspension of their term of office in accordance with article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. The grounds for the termination of the mandate are as follows. At your own request, 13 cases. In connection with death, 1 incident. And according to the court's verdict, three cases. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Laws on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and the "Elections of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads", the Committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that individual rural and rural head elections be held on Sunday, March 18, 2012, with the adoption of the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, whose projects are distributed in the session hall. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u192	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. Dear colleagues, the draft Ordinance on the Assignment of Elections of the Vorosiliv Rural Head is on the vote. [[Vorosoil Village Council of the Tivrov district of Winnitsk Region]] [[9603]] Please vote. [[13:14:07]] For 265 Decision taken. Olyanic village head. [[Olyanic Village Council of the Trieste Region of Vinnitsk Region]] [[9603-1]] Please vote. [[13:14:31]] For 272 Decision taken. Kadom village head. [[Kadom Rural Council of the Kagarlic district of Kyiv Region]] [[9603-2]] [[13:14:55]] For 277 Decision taken. The Great Chernigian head of the country. [[Grand Chernigiv Rural Council of the Orutsky District of the Žitomir Region]] [[9603-3]] [[13:15:20]] For 279 Decision taken. Eastern village head. [[East Village Council of the Krasnoggard Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] [[9603-4]] Please vote. [[13:15:44]] For 276 Decision taken. Rudnicki Village Head (Rudinicka Village Council of the Pistachio Region of Winnicki Region (9603-5). [[13:16:08]] For 272 Decision taken. The red lake head. [[Red Lake Village Council of the Sumo District of Putill]] [[9603-6]] Please vote. [[13:16:33]] For 282 Decision taken. The Gerebili village head. [[Gerebila Village Council of Mogilov-Podil Region of Winnitsk Region]] [[9603-7]] Please vote. [[13:16:57]] For 277 Decision taken. Shishkin village head. [[Shiskin village council of the region of Kyrovograd]] [[9603-8]] [[13:17:24]] For 278 Decision taken. Ingulo-Kamyan village head. [[Ingulo-Kamyan Village Council of Novgorodkow Region of Kirovograd Region]] [[9603-9]] Please vote. [[13:17:50]] For 282 Decision taken. A thought - provoking village head. [[Theological Rural Council, the Podvolocchia region of Ternopil region]] [[9603-10]] Please vote. [[13:18:13]] For 280 Cherkowian village head. [[Czerwkow Rural Council of the Orgitsky District of Poltava Region]] [[9603-11]] Please vote. [[13:18:38]] For 283 Decision taken. Lenin village head. [[Lenin Village Council of the Krasnoggard Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] [[9603-12]] Please vote. [[13:19:02]] For 281 Decision taken. A Fermanian village head. [[Furmanian Rural Council of the Kili district of Odessa]] [[9603-13]] Please vote. [[13:19:27]] For 281 Decision taken. The Kulinicekian village head. [[Kulinicekow village council of Kharkiv district of Kharkiv region]] [[9603-14]] Please vote. [[13:19:55]] For 278 Decision taken. Kirikovsky village head. [[Kirikowa Village Council of the district of Velikopisarovo of the district of Suma]] [[9603-15]] Please vote. [[13:20:20]] For 278 Decision taken. And Pochrovsky's village head. [[Croat Village Council of the Dnipropetrovsk Region]] [[9603-16]] Please vote. [[13:20:45.]] For 279 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, you and I at the Conciliation Council have agreed on a party of regions that we are going to be working hard to complete our consideration of the issues identified by the schedule. Right now, we need to confirm our willingness to do this. I am voting on the proposal to continue the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the finalization of the issues set out in the schedule for Thursday. Please vote. [[13:21:26]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on specific issues relating to the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u193	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee has prepared for second reading a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on specific issues relating to the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine]] I will point out that when the bill was adopted on December 7th, it was decided to shorten the deadline for the second reading, that is, 7 days. 14 proposals were received from Ukrainian national deputies. Of which part of the proposals are taken into account, some arguments are rejected. The National Bank's proposals were taken into account. The committee is therefore ready to consider the second reading and to adopt the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u194	Let's do some repairs. Stanislaw Arjevitin, 4th Amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, today the National Bank has a security team and a military weapon. This was not enough, so not the National Bank, but the Karakai National MP suggested that the Police Act should be extended to the National Bank. I would like to remind you that scientific expertise and legal management are absolutely against and I don't understand why law enforcement functions with weapons of war are used for the National Bank, including physical influences, special defenses, special means of attack and so on. My suggestion is to go to a more compromise. And I suggested that we give the right to use weapons, but within the limits and order of the legislation of Ukraine, and this will show that the National Bank remains and is protected in the status of well-known security. And the second. Agree to joint actions by the Cabinet of Ministers. I suggest that this is correct and logical, and I ask you to support my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u196	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u197	The committee rejected the proposal with the following argument. The National Bank now has the appropriate authority and is expected to perform the incasing functions. Therefore, the addition to legislation is logical and reinforces the role and activities of the National Bank of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u198	Puts to the vote the 4th amendment. [[13:24:25]] For -8 Correction not supported. The 7th Amendment, Stanislaw Arzhevtin, do you insist on it? Are you insisting? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u199	Yes, I insist. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that the National Bank will be digging for gold. Last time, I was speaking on this subject from the rostrum. I think you're not going to listen to my opinion, but I'm going to read to you then the conclusion of the Legal Authority, which is similar to that of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, that this standard of position of the project does not meet the constitutional standards for the core function of the National Bank. Moreover, according to the Mining License Act, this is subject to licensing and execution only through open competitions. The project does not contain implementation mechanisms, violates article 1.8 of the Constitution and the conclusions of the Constitutional Court and so on. So I don't think that's the main function of the National Bank, and so everyone's wondering why National MP Karakai is proposing to the Central Bank to do that? Notice, this is not a legislative initiative of the National Bank, but a national deputy. I think they're ashamed to make such proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u200	I'm voting on Amendment 7 of Stanislav Arjevetin. [[13:26:00]] For -8 Correction not supported. Next Amendment, Stanislav Arjevitina, 12. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, this is my amendment to those who really want and support the National Bank's digging for gold. So I suggest that the National Bank actually has the right to do that, so it needs to be able to create a separate enterprise with the Cabinet of Ministers, like today's Banking and Monetary Court, the State Treasury of the National Bank of Ukraine. Create another division of state here in this context, and there's already a voluntary dig, why in the main functions of the National Bank's monetary policy we recorded digging, getting, looking for gold, it's funny. So my proposal is compromised, if we need this kind of enterprise in the country, let's put it in line with those state-owned enterprises where there's a one-person owner of the National Bank, once again, a bank-monetary yard where there's a state treasury, like legal persons, let's create this third institution here, and it'll be right, and logical. At least support this proposal for me at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u202	I'm betting on the vote of 12 of Stanislav Arjevetin's amendment. [[13:27:32]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. Please, Vitaly Juryovich, shall we vote on the proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u203	Yes, we can vote in the second reading and adopt the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u204	I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on specific issues relating to the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 9440]] Please vote. [[13:28:16]] For 266 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the taxation of transactions involving precious metals by the National Bank of Ukraine]] [[9441]] The reporter is Vitaly Hometicnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u205	Thank you. These are interlinked laws and even registration numbers that go hand in hand, but they do apply to amendments to the Tax Code on Added Costs and Income Taxes of Persons in Transactions With Precious Metals, if this is the case with the National Bank of Ukraine. The bill received 17 amendments and proposals from legislators, of which 9 are included, 8 are rejected. And the committee is ready to go back to the draft text. The only thing we have is a letter from the national deputy, Eden, of the 7th Amendment. He's calling off his amendment. So I would like to put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u206	Stanislaw Arjewitin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that today the Cabinet of Ministers, when they issue securities, and the people who buy, they get interest, they don't pay taxes. My suggestion is to compare the National Bank's securities to the cabinet's securities. But the National Bank moved on. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to remind you that the Legal Office has made a remark that this is a violation of article 116. The legal authorities strongly oppose such a position and reject such a bill. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the Legal Authority is definitely against it, and 116 articles here are under this law. And my point is, the National Bank wants us not to tax those transactions that are called "bank transactions." Now I'm going to read you what debt operations are, it's not just securities. Debt transactions are loans, deposits, loans, guarantees, bonds, bills and so on, liabilities under the terms of law. And anyone who works with the National Bank of Enterprise will not be taxed. I don't think this can be supported. And once again, the rule of law strongly opposes and reminds us of.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u208	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u209	The committee rejected the proposals made by the national deputy of Arjevetina because it believed that the editorship that it was afforded the National Bank an opportunity without taxing the income of individuals. If this applies to transactions with natural persons, allowing them to trade these instruments and not tax the income tax of citizens. This will enable individuals to invest in the instruments that will be offered to the National Bank, both bonds and coins and other instruments that are set out in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u210	That's amendment 12, right? What's the amendment, 12 right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u211	5 amendment, it's partially counted. But if there's a desire to set up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u212	I'm voting on the 5th amendment. [[13:32:06]] For -8 Correction not supported. Yeah, then the 12th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u213	I'm sorry, 7, I'd like to request the 7th Amendment of the One to put the vote on the table and support the proposal for its rejection, taking into account the letter that came from the One and the support of the National Bank of this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u214	Amendment 7 is considered by the committee. It's about voting, it's about confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:32:48]] For-0 Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u215	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, given the vote on this amendment, we have 3 amendments to the National Bank and 6 that have been voted on with regard to the proposal of the One. Then I'm going to say for the transcript that at 3 and at 6 amendments to the National Bank, I'm going to add the word black and black after the word black and black."and then by the text." precious metals sold by the National Bank of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u216	Let us vote in favour of this proposal, dear colleagues. Please vote in favour of clarifying Amendments 3 and 6 in the Committee. [[13:33:44]] For 254 Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u217	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u218	Amendment then 12. Stanislav Arzvitin, are you insisting on her? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I wanted to remind you that this is not about securities, but not only about Ukrainians, as we are told, but it is about all the legal persons who are going to work now that will not be taxed. Because we don't use the word "not securities" but we use the word "bond liabilities", including in law enforcement. Well, what kind of individuals are we talking about here? And I would like to stress that the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to the securities that they sell to people, they don't even pay taxes. Now the National Bank does not just have securities, but all the obligations it will have do not pay taxes. Who calculated how many countries will lose? Who calculated who would provide such benefits? And then I wanted to give you another reading of the legal administration of the proposal, more faithfully, of the conclusion. "The mentioned does not conform to the principles of equality of all payers before taxes. This is tax discrimination." This is the conclusion of the judiciary. It's a violation of the Tax Code and all that. Vote if you're not ashamed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u220	Thank you. I would like to make a comment on this so that the National MP, Arjewitin, does not mislead. This is true of individuals. Because a person's income tax is a matter of taxation for individuals. That's the first one. Secondly, we have the opportunity not to tax the same tax on domestic government loans that are issued by the Cabinet of Ministers. And why not compare the instruments of the Bank, the National Bank for the same status, to get to the person who would be interested in investing in these instruments. It's a normal absolute mechanism that will allow a lot of money to be spent that actually doesn't work today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u221	Yeah, it's a line. Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind the word "deceptive," I'll read you the text of the law. I'm reading the text of the law. "To supplement the paragraph "is exempt from taxation of the transaction with the debt liabilities issued by the National Bank of Ukraine." Where the citizens of Ukraine are, show me. Where are the securities he buys? They are, of course. Well, I say again, if you want to write "Ukraine," free Ukrainians from taxation, write as the Cabinet of Ministers wrote: "These papers are issued by the Cabinet of Ministers and interest received on the securities of the Cabinet of Ministers are not taxed." That's correct and logical. My proposal was, let's write here the "price papers of the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank." And then there will be Ukrainians. And when we write in the text "and debt liabilities issued by the National Bank," I'm sorry, this is not about Ukrainians. That's why I'm not misleading. I read you a text, a rule of law that you will vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u223	A vote is taken on Amendment 12 of Stanislav Arjevitina. [[13:37:12]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. Yes, who else insists on their amendments? None. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, in general, as a bill of the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. [[on the taxation of transactions involving precious metals by the National Bank of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 9441]] Please vote. [[13:37:51]] For 265 Decision taken. We are continuing the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 15 minutes, that is, until 14 hours 15 minutes, and I am announcing the draft Law on Economic Experiment for the Development of Software Production in Ukraine. There is an offer from the committee to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm putting her to a vote. [[13:38:31]] For the 220. Decision taken. The reporter is King Eugene Igorovich. Davemuk will report to Stepan, please. And I'm asking the committee to prepare. Are you also from the committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u224	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Science and Education, in June 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Economic Experiment to create a conducive environment for the development of the software industry in Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Kzarkovi, Janukovič, Kalužni and others. The committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the bill. And as a result of the first reading, his subject should be restored to the right of legislative initiative for further development. But in August 2011, the drafters revised the bill and introduced a new bill to replace what had been previously submitted. It is this new bill that we are considering today. Bill No. 8267 proposes the priority of developing the software industry and establishing a specific order of payment of taxes and payments for entrepreneurs and businesses in the field of information. This will allow us to legalize this activity. It is envisaged that a single national register of participants in the economic experiment will be introduced and that government planning for the training of qualified personnel in the software industry will be made available. On December 14, 2011, Parliamentary hearings were held in the Supreme Council on "Creating Ukraine with favourable conditions for the development of the software industry." A very useful and interesting conversation took place in the crowded Parliamentary Hall. I'll point out that all the speakers at the hearings supported the bill and called on the Supreme Council to accept it. The Committee also supports the whole idea of experimenting and the priority development of the software industry, and understands the extremely important importance of the software industry in developing the economy of Ukraine and the ability of the state to take the lead in the world labour market in this field. In preparation for the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u225	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u226	on the committee he was sent for an expert evaluation to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, ministries, other state bodies, the Academy of Sciences. The results of the expert evaluation are as follows. The Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the National Liaison Management Commission of Ukraine, the National Tax Service, the Ministry of Justice, the Security Service, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Academy of Legal Sciences of Ukraine supports the bill subject to its completion. The Ministry of Education and Science, the State Agency for Science, Innovation and Information, the National Academy of Sciences recommends the adoption of a bill. At the same time, the State Agency for Science, Innovation and Information suggests that the bill be considered in a complex. [[Nos.8267 and 8268]] A separate conclusion, signed by First Vice-Prime Minister Clovis, Andri Clovis, came from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The conclusion states that the Cabinet of Ministers supports the bill if the comments are taken into account. [[No.8267]] The scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill should be rejected as a result of the first reading. The Ministry of Finance does not support the adoption of the bill. The Committee on Science and Education, with these conclusions and working on the draft parliamentary hearing recommendations on enabling conditions for the development of the software industry, has not definitively defined its position on the bill in the absence of time. However, on the basis of a preliminary consideration of this bill in the Committee and the proposals of the State Agency for Science, Innovation and Information, we believe that Bills 8267 and 8628 are complementary and should be considered together. As deputy chairman of the committee, I propose to support the bill in the first reading, taking into account the comments made to the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so, shall we vote? Please sign up. Draw the names of the national deputies on the board. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u228	Dear national MPs, the authors of this bill are deputies from all factions, including me, so I took the floor to speak. Why do we need to do this experiment? I'm going to give you some statistics so you can understand that the state can't stand apart from these processes that are going on. Today, according to expert estimates, the software industry is now providing or receiving more than 15 billion dollars a year. Out of these 15 billion, almost 10 billion are the funds that come from abroad. Today, nearly 4,000 companies operating in this industry have engaged 150,000 professionals. If we do the experiment right, and we put these standards in place, the previous estimates say that more than 2,000 companies in this sector can be legalized. About 80,000 of these companies will also work legally. By the way, all our neighbors have already joined this problem and taken care of it as a matter of state and create special conditions for the development of this industry. In Ukraine, for the time being, he's only statistically observing this industry, which I think is not enough. We know how deep they work in the shadows in connection with this company in this sector. And we know how many of them are carrying stolen and illegal products. We know that the U.S. Ukrainian actually created this industry for the whole world, our Ukrainian. And we need to create a way to use our Ukrainian potential to build the software industry, and this, really, you understand, without this, the progressiveness of our country cannot be. So the proposal is to support this experiment, and after the experiment, to adopt the final version of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u229	Thank you. Andrew Schlell. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u230	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I also think that the experiment is interesting. In general, we need to understand that Ukraine, as a nation that has to take care of its future, has to take care to keep a place in the new world that is constantly evolving and changing, so of course we have to take care of it to develop IT technology in Ukraine. Without that, well, it's practically impossible, let's say, to look at the future, because it's not just the technology of the future -- it's an opportunity to employ a huge number of people who actually work with their heads, not with their hands, as most of them do in Ukraine. So I would point out that, of course, it's very good that this is the draft Economic Experimental Experimental Law. The best favourable conditions are simply to allow these companies to work normally: not to destroy them with checks, not to destroy them by coming to the office, removing the technology -- and they tell us that the server was not sent there or the wrong message, so they stop the entire business. So I would appeal to power: the best thing you can do for these professionals is just not move them, stop taking money out of them, stop treating them like kiosk holders, because they're serious, potentially important people for Ukraine. Because the employees of these companies actually work as heads. They got on a plane, they flew to another country, and they could work there. And you just have to give people who have the opportunity to work in Ukraine, who have the ability to organize IT technologies, just to work in Ukraine, not to destroy them, not to destroy them. And this will be the best contribution for them. The best way to do that is to leave them alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u231	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u232	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Silicon Valley, Silicon Valley, Skalkovo, Bangalore, India, Powers and Sites in Brazil, in Israel, countries are thinking about their future, allowing high technology, modern technology to develop on the top of the credit line, giving maximum support. The colleagues rightly said that people who are gifted, who are actually in the vanguard of progress, of technological progress, are very dynamic, very flexible, and when a problem arises in one country, they find themselves in other countries. And it's obvious that today, in the Silicon Valley in California, the former Soviet Union is working about 50-60 percent, and a significant proportion of them, you know, from Ukraine. It's not random, it's the result that this issue should have been considered long ago. Now we're talking about an economic experiment, and where I said, it's been a long time since the experiments, it's been practice, and we're still experimenting. In my view, Ukraine is just in this area competitive, in the brain, in the intelligence, in the intelligence of a new generation, in the generation, not the pseudo of a young generation, which, for the rest of its life, inhibits everything, but the real young generation, the people of gifted intellectuals. I believe that the state should help them, must support these people, then there is a future in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u233	Honorable National MPs. Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u234	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! We have a clear decision in our parliamentary group to support this bill, because it has already been told by other speakers. There's no way today to tax the money that this industry is carrying in the volumes that it's in. in the bets that are stipulated by our legislation. That money won't come, there's no mechanism. People from Ukraine will go or, even when they are here, will work for foreign companies and make profits there. And so, from this point of view, we propose not only to support the bill, but simply to protocolly apply to the Cabinet of Ministers, not even by request, but, as required, to move from experimentation to the definitive introduction of this standard as a permanent norm of Ukrainian legislation. There's nothing to experiment on. All the civilized countries of the world have gone this way. Therefore, keep on trying to make it a final, unconditional norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u235	A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Law on Economic Experiment to create favourable conditions for development in Ukraine of the software industry. [[Registration number 8267]] Please vote. [[13:51:47]] For 277 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the support of agricultural producers]] Registration number 9345, 9345-d. I would like to vote on your motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:52:22]] For 229 Decision taken. Reporters: National Deputy of Ukraine, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofijna, and Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, we will now consider this long - suffering bill, which we have repeatedly discussed in the Supreme Council, how to make it really effective to support those people who today produce such important food for the food of Ukrainians as milk and meat. That is, a bill under which the value added tax to be paid by processing enterprises is given as a subsidy to the producers of this product. After so many consensus councils, we made a joint bill and agreed to it with the Cabinet of Ministers. I insisted in my bill that this amount go to the peasants 100 percent, but as a result of the agreement, we found the following compromise. The following year, in 2012, the special fund of the state budget will be 30 percent and 70 percent. In 2013, 40 by 60, in 2014 and still 50 by 50. How this money is going to be used, those going to the state budget, we're going to distribute in the hall and they're going to support the building of powerful milk, animal complexes. Those who pay special bills pay directly at the end of the month to farmers who give milk, or meat, to farmers. That was my compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u237	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u238	And another sentence. I ask him to support, with only one condition, another compromise is to exclude from the text of draft paragraph 5 in chapter 1. What's that? It's for, you know, there's a technical remedy so that it's not treated differently by tax and other services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u239	Thank you. Please, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u240	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The substance of the bill has been explained in detail. Today, according to the current standard, processing enterprises are counting the value added tax in full to the state budget special fund in order to be established by the Cabinet of Ministers. The author's proposal was that the same resource, the value added tax, should be channelled to further-use processing companies. As a result of a series of meetings, we went to the agreed standard, where part goes to the special fund, part goes to the processors to get these funds directly to the person, the person growing the animal. The percentages were said to be how much. The 12th year, the 13th and the 14th, and since 14th year, half of it goes to a special fund, half of it goes to processors. There's a 9345-d completed project registered, which was fully in line with the profile ministries and supported by the committee. The standard that Catherine Timofievna said you should talk about on the committee. Because now I can't just pick up and change some points from the rostrum. Because all of these questions were examined by the Ministry of Finance and the experts from the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and our committee staff. So I propose to accept 9345-D, which, once again, I confirm, is in agreement with all the members of the working group and to adopt on the first reading and in general this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, since we have two bills, we need to vote first in favour of Bill 9345 and then in favour of a bill that is already harmonized and worked on the committee and agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry. So that we don't have this bill, I'm going to put the proposal for adoption first on the basis of the draft law. [[9345]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:58:10]] For-9 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on the Adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code for Support of Agricultural Producers on the Basis and Overall as a Law. [[Registration number 9345-d]] Please vote. [[13:58:42]] For 276 The law is passed. A draft Law is being announced for consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we have continued for 15 minutes. We'll do a little work at dinner. What are you going through? Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on compulsory civil liability insurance for land transport owners. [[Registration number 9462]] The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:59:27]] For 225 Decision taken. The reporter is Pinchuk Andry. The reporter is Vitaly Homutinnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u242	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! National deputies and members of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy developed a comprehensive bill aimed at improving legislation on mandatory insurance for transport. We are proposing three major innovations: to change the system of compensation for damage to the life and health of the victim, which provides for a minimum level of payment, even if medical costs cannot be documented; the second, to introduce a system of direct damages; the third, to increase the discipline of insurers and to prevent them from violating legislation and compulsory civil liability insurance contracts. To this end, it is proposed to make the conditions of acquisition and termination of membership at the Ukrainian Motor Transport Office more stringent. It is also proposed to clarify the order of settlement and payment of payments and regular payments; to increase the level of financial security of the ICTY funds with a view to providing more reliable guarantees of payment; and to clarify the status of such guaranteed contributions. Clarify the order in which insurance payments are approved, recalculated and adjusted by adjusting the coefficients. Exclude the article concerning the bonus system "bonus malus". Identify the status of insurance contracts when the owner of the secured means of transport changes. Strengthen control over the availability of mandatory civil liability insurance contracts. Enter the liability for a breach of the insurance policy. Eliminate the disagreements that have arisen since the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on Road Traffic Adventures and Payments of Insurance. The adoption of the bill will increase the sustainability of the mandatory civil liability insurance system for land-based transport owners. It will improve the quality of service and the level of protection of victims in road traffic. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u243	Thank you. Vitali Juryovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u244	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Compulsory Insurance and Civil and Legal Responsibility of Land Transporters. This law has been in force for almost seven years and we have not amended the bill. During this time, there were many issues that needed to be settled and resolved at the legislative level. The bill is primarily aimed at improving the protection of the rights of victims, improving the compensation system for road traffic accidents. The drafters propose to review the principles of compensation for the harm caused by the victim’s life and health and to address a number of other issues raised by the author. The committee recommends that the bill be adopted in the first reading and that the proposals and comments that came from the panel of profiles be taken into account in the second reading. I think that together we're going to create a group and we're going to work out all the proposals and we're going to be ready for the second reading in the next session to vote on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, who insists on discussing the matter? Nobody? Please, Bully or Caplienne? Who's it gonna be? Asshole, please. And Kravchenko, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u246	Thank you. MP Reforms for the Future, Deputy Zadirko, Mikolayevščina. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" group has mixed views on this bill. And with regard to the changes that are being made to civil law relations. So I still think it would be appropriate to look before the second reading to keep the bonus malus discount system. This system of discounts is essentially designed to encourage the non-accidental operation of vehicles. It's very important right now. Because there's actually a lot of traffic accidents and 32,000 road accidents for 2010 says that it's still necessary to encourage drivers to make this system exist. But there are some pretty positive things in this bill. So today we're saying that running a system of direct damages compensation and fixing the level of payment this is a benefit in this bill. Therefore, the MP's Reform for the Future will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. But still, the drafters of the bill and the MPs, I think it would be appropriate to call for us to work on the second reading and leave a system of discounts for drivers who drive without accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u247	Yes. Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u248	Thank you. Well, it's been seven years since the law was passed. And almost every year, some adjustments are made, some adjustments are made to how much more money can be taken from land owners. None of the rapporteurs said what was the balance between the money collected and how much had been paid. And the balance sheet is that, including to date, we are not in a position to pay people in full. That is why this law cannot be voted on. It'll increase the pressure on people anyway. What makes you think we have logic? On the one hand, we have cancelled the technical inspection, on the other hand we are exerting pressure through insurance obligations. In any event, the main task of the Act is to obtain additional funds for the Motor Bureau.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u249	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office in its conclusions also believes that the bill can be recommended for adoption as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning compulsory civil liability insurance for land transport owners. Please vote. [[2:07:04]] For 229 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party - 175, "BUT – "Fatherhood" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-factional – 12. Let's take another look, shall we? Dear colleagues, come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on. Dear colleagues, let's have the Deputy Minister present. He's sitting here in the morning. We'll take a quick look at it. This is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the well-being of the population) (9381). Deputy Minister Semchuk Grigory Mihajlovich. If you don't have any objections, let's take a look at acceptance as a basis, and that's it. Let's take a brief look at the question, please. Vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[14:08:17]] For 217 Decision taken. Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u250	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed a bill amending some laws of Ukraine. [[on the well-being of the population]] Amendments to the Law on the Supremacy of Human Settlements are based on the need to improve it in part by bringing the law in line with the requirements of the law in force and by eliminating the contradictions of its articles, taking into account the features of the maintenance of these objects and their individual elements. The main changes that are proposed are literally precise and concise. They are primarily directed to a clear delimitation of the powers of executive authorities and local self - government bodies, article 10. Dealing with competitive selection of enterprises that repair and maintain objects with good design. Improving rights and responsibilities in the field of welfare of owners of objects by means of well - being, citizens, and businesses. Improving the maintenance of the road network, improving the maintenance of engineering infrastructures, which was not the case. Dealing with matters, a vital moment, with the maintenance of domestic animals. Improving the approval of local self - government rules and the introduction of work permits, which lead to abuse of facilities. The bill also proposes appropriate changes to Ukraine’s laws: local self - government, a moratorium on the release of green plants on individual objects through the green economy of Kiev, and public procurement. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy for the Bill, when considered on the Committee, has made a number of constructive proposals. These included proposals from the City Association. We've got the whole thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u251	Thank you. Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin, deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, will inform the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, the essence of the bill was said by the honourable Gregory Mikhailovich. The results of the bill. First, the three committees of ecology, the budget and our committee support and make requests to the hall to be accepted in the first reading. Science-expert support for first reading. On the subject of these observations that were made. Publicity and local self - government raised the issue of restrictions on their rights in the matter of creating an inspection for the well - being and the approval of the provisions on well - being. This is a matter that we have resolved with the association and with the Ministry. We return these powers to local self-government, leaving behind the Ministry the creation of typical regulations that will apply to local councils where there is no approved position of own. There are letters from the Association of Cities that agree and will be taken into account on second reading. So I think that the bill, and the committee, most importantly, thinks that the bill can be supported in the first reading. Please do so in the hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, no objection to putting this motion to a vote? None. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the well-being of the population]] [[Registration number 9381]] Please vote. [[14:12:40]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. At 16 o'clock we'll continue in plenary mode.
