ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system, 10 o'clock. [[10:00:14]] Three hundred and seventy - four national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 12 May 2011. 42 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 16 laws and 19 regulations were passed, 5 bills were passed on the basis, 4 bills were returned to the committee for further work, 5 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 3 laws have been passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 1 law has been rejected. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, an hour of questions to the Government is held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. Representatives of the deputy factions made an offer during the "hour of questions to the government" to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the events of May 9th in Lviv, and this was the decision we made in the session hall. Deputies: The Party of Regions, the Communist Party of Ukraine and the parliamentary group Reforms for the Future, based on part six of article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have notified in advance the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the questions that will be asked during the "hours of questions to the Government". Just a minute. Honourable National Deputies, answering questions from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be Minister of Interior of Ukraine Anatoly Volodymyrovich Mohilov. Please, Sergei Sass. Just a minute. Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u2	Thank you. Sergey Sass, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'll make another observation to you and the government, if that's possible. According to 35 articles of the Cabinet of Ministers Act and according to the Rules of the Supreme Council in the course of the "hour of questions to the Government" in the Hall, the government should be fully in line with the exclusion of those members of the Cabinet of Ministers who are on board. Today, there is one vice-premier of Tikhov and a minister of the interior. I don't think a beautiful interior minister can replace the entire cabinet of ministers. So I ask once again to take measures to implement the Cabinet of Ministers Act and the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! The observation is absolutely fair. On more than one occasion, I had a conversation with government officials. Let us make this decision. Next Friday, unless there is a full cabinet of ministers, except for those on board, we will not discuss the matter. Just like those bills that will be passed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine until the law is fulfilled. Is it accepted? It's a deal. Dear National Deputies! The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine set out such an order for the "hour of questions to the Government". Asked by members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from MP factions, groups and responses to them for 30 minutes. On the question of the National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers, within 30 minutes. It is suggested that honorary colleagues, within one minute, formulate questions to the minister and within two minutes give the minister answers to the questions asked. Is there no objection? None. Dear colleagues, Minister of Interior of Ukraine Anatoly Volodymyrovich Mohilov is invited to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, we might be able to suggest: first, perhaps, that the general information should be, or let's just answer the questions then.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u4	Vladimir Mikhailovich, please allow me general information, and then I will answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u5	Okay. Then let's give up to 10 minutes in general and then answer the questions. No objections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Allow me to invite you to see a short video about events that took place in Lviv on May 9th of this year. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you not to deny it, because the minister is proposing to watch this video. When we were briefed by finance ministers or economics, they showed slides. The minister of the interior has only fragments. Please. Sure, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Please! Please don't turn the session hall into events that took place in Lviv. Calm down! Please, I'm addressing everyone. Please, calm down. We invited the Minister of Internal Affairs to answer the questions that concern everyone. Please, don't worry. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u9	Your Honor, allow me to move on. You've seen the events going on there. These remarks in the hall -- where the police were -- I would suggest to those MPs who are addressing this kind of emphasis to introduce a bill that will provide for more brutal measures on the part of the police in relation to those who are violating the law. Now, now I'm, now I'm, now I'm telling you about these events that were going on there. Long before the events you've just seen on the screen, internal affairs authorities have had information about possible provocations by people radically set up citizens in Lviv. I will not deliberately call any of the political powers. Let's call them radically left and radically right so that I don't have any power here. Later, this was confirmed by a large number of reports from the various political forces and public organizations about the intentions of carrying out large-scale mass action. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that they all coincided in time and in place. An analysis of the information received, provided that a large number of people were in the central part of the city, indicated possible threats to public order, the security of citizens, the violation of their rights and freedoms. Therefore, the Lviv City Council’s executive committee was asked by the Lviv City Council to file a complaint with the District Administrative Court concerning the imposition of restrictions on citizens’ rights to carry out mass action in Lviv on May 9. This possibility is foreseen in part two of article 39 of the Constitution. Our initiative was supported by local authorities and implemented in the Order of the Lviv District Administrative Court of May 6th, "The Prohibition of Meetings, Meetings, Marches, Demonstrations and Other Meetings in the City of Lviv." Its action was not extended solely to official measures provided for by the Lviv City Council. The court’s decision by the State Enforcement Service was signed to all without exception by interested parties, most of whom understood such a decision and refused to come to Lviv. I would like to point out that official measures taken by the local executive authorities and the self - rule of the country took place at the scheduled time and without any disturbances in public order. Yet, several thousand radically adjusted citizens of the right to political direction have ignored the court’s decision. Further developments call into question the peaceful intentions of honoring the memory of the victims of World War II. Clearly, it is not possible to organize and raise this number of overactive young people simply by means of an idea. Obviously, the price is in advance. This is very much highlighted by the footage. High levels of organization of large groups of people, rapid management of them, massive use of face masks. Agree that in a peaceful setting, masks do not hide their faces, usually one of the signs of wrongdoing or the intent of wrongdoing. The concerted action of radically adjusted individuals resulted in a massive violation of the rights of other citizens to honor the memory of the dead. You just saw how it all happened. Young people stopped people, grabbed flowers, ripped medals off their clothes, symbolism. Their addresses were offensive, largely uncensored and demeaning. During the course of several buses, the crowd blocked their movement because several windows of one of the buses were broken. A person is installed and all his illegal actions are fixed. Attempts were made to break through the doors and enter the living rooms. Smoke checkers, stones, and bottles flew. Attempts have been made to provoke police officers to use force. All of this you could see on all the multiple videos, as it is, including on the Internet. I would like to point out that all these wrongs were short - lived because they were immediately stopped by the police and did not find their further development. We have also seen evidence of personal opposition from individual citizens to illegal acts. All of them are studying and will be given a proper legal evaluation. The facts of the violation were thoroughly documented by police officers. A number of wrongdoers have already been called to administrative responsibility, and others have been identified. Appropriate measures are being taken. There is also a pretrial investigation into criminal cases that have been committed. Now let me go to the written questions that have been addressed to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Question one. Has a law - order plan been drawn up during mass action? Organizational steps to ensure the rule of law during the anniversary of the Victory began early in April. A corresponding arrangement has been signed, specific tasks have been studied for subordinated units, and appropriate calculations of power and resources have been made. In line with the Police Act, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has guided internal affairs bodies to ensure public order and respect for the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Similar work took place in Lviv, especially in the district center, taking into account the region’s characteristics. May 9th to the Lviv City Council Reports from 16 different political forces about various measures. In order to monitor the operational situation, an operational headquarters was deployed, involving representatives of managers from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and an active special warehouse of neighboring areas of Ukraine. Since May 8, all memorial complexes and military burials have been taken into custody 24 hours a day. That's what's been done before. I've already mentioned that the police have brought this restraining order to a standstill, that they have carried out the appropriate explanatory work with the left radically-minded forces in the cities of Sevastopol, Crimea, Odessa, and that there has not been a mass outpost. They carried out this judgment. The second question. That's a lot. If anyone tells me there were flags, I'll tell you. In Lviv, there were five people detained at the same station who had a certificate of true radical power and had a red flag with them. Perhaps we came to Lviv to conduct the shares that were there. The second question. How many police officers have protected the rule of law? The main management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Lviv region was developed. I don't know what According to him, about 2,000 members of the police and members of internal affairs were involved in public order, 110 of which are special divisions of Berkut from Wallinsk, Zakarpatsk, Ravensk, Hmelni district. I would like to point out that it was only because of police action that there were no major violations of public order and that no veteran was physically injured. And if they suffer morally, with all these facts in the context of the cases that are being broken, we will handle and the guilty will be held accountable. Were there backup forces or were they active? Of course, there were spare forces. For each mass - mass venture, especially the large - scale one, reserves are always created. In general, they are formed by special forces and internal affairs personnel. Yes, this time there were 540 law enforcement officers, 309 of whom were militia personnel, 230 of whom were internal military personnel. These reserves were used as a result of developments and an increase in the number of participants. As you have seen, the urgent need for this was, and the inclusion of the reserves was entirely justified. Next question. Was there information about possible provocations during the Day of Victory? Of course, that information was available to us and that's why we've taken a number of preventive measures, created a sufficient reserve of personnel, provided that there's a distinction between the participants in the tournaments and the militia borders. If we hadn't calculated the possibility of an acute operating environment, the complications would have been much greater and Lviv would have shed blood. Next question. How do you appreciate the actions of police officers, are there any observations about the actions of police officers? Dear National Deputies! You all know that President Janukovic of Ukraine commissioned the Attorney General of Ukraine to set up a working group to study the events that took place in Lviv on 9 May 2011. The test applies to both the actions of the political forces and the police. The conclusion is that a legal assessment will be given to all. Personally, as Minister of Internal Affairs, I would like to stress the following. Police officers on May 9 worked professionally, literately, and acted adequately in a situation that was complex and therefore prevented mass disturbances and bloodshed in Lviv. Dear National Deputies! All of you have been able to see in the media on a number of occasions how brutally in European countries police departments are using the actions of radically set-up people in group violations of public order. Special tools, techniques, waterworks, mass arrests, and so forth are widely used. So I believe that the Lviv police were still acting, perhaps, softly with regard to the extremist elements that were manifesting themselves in Lviv. Professional law enforcement has enabled us to maintain control of the situation and prevent mass wrongdoing. In this regard, I have decided to encourage the individual composition involved in these activities in Lviv. Next question. Were representatives of the various political forces warned of the inadmissible clash and violation of public order before the end of May 9? If you've been warned of what it was like. On May 5, the leaders of the Lviv militia initiated and held a concerted meeting with representatives of the political forces who expressed their desire to carry out their actions on the occasion of Victory Day. At that meeting, they were given an explanation of the legal situation and were warned about the responsibility for its violation, and on May 6, representatives of the State executive service announced to them a court decision prohibiting the holding of shares. On 9 May, seven administrators were made up of police officers. Three of them, because of their vicious disobedience to the militia, four for petty hooliganism. [[This is article 185 of the Administrative Code.]] In addition, five criminal cases were committed. Three, according to the facts of bullying, one, according to the fact of the robbery, one, according to the fact of the group violation of public order. There is also a record of crimes committed against internal affairs officials. You saw it on the screen. The material collected will be sent to the prosecutor’s office to respond properly and to make appropriate procedural decisions. I assure you all these criminal cases will be. The investigation was carried out as soon as possible in full volume and the blame for this disorder will be brought to criminal and administrative responsibility. Next. According to the media, the political forces of the Family and the Russian Unity have arrived at the scene of provocation on buses with numbers from the Lions. Does this information match the reality? If so, who arranged their ride? I want to know that the contents of the question do not match. On May 9, at 1: 00 p.m., buses arrived on the Mount of Fame, according to the license plates of the Lviv region’s enterprises and automobiles. According to information received by the authorities of the interior, there were about 80 war veterans on these buses, most of whom, at their own age and health, are no longer able to visit the graves and burial sites on their own and need to be accompanied. Thus, they were accompanied by 40 others. And this fact is confirmed by the video material. These were all veterans from the Lviv region or Western region. That's all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u11	I answered all the questions that came to the IMF in writing. Now I am ready to answer the questions they will ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u12	May I have your attention, please? Anatoly Volodymyrovich, one minute. Now we're going to sign up for questions from MPs directly. Dear colleagues, 30 minutes of questions from the deputies. Please record the question. Yes, please. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u13	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Mr. Secretary, it happened that the movie you showed is, you know, an episode. It shows neither the beginning of the day nor the first half of the day when no one was missed by the police, I repeat, anyone. So I wonder when a court decision will begin to be executed in our country, which one has the same power as the power of the law? And that's where we had to start. How many protocols are there for failing to comply with the court’s decision? Who Is Involved in Responsibility? The second question. Please tell me, how are the political forces organized that have nothing to do with Lviv and the veterans in any way, how were they sent there with the militia? And so the question is, "Didn't the police themselves take part in the provocation because they just drove everybody out of there?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u14	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u15	Let me answer that. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that Victory Day is a state holiday established by Ukrainian law. Therefore, the police may have the right as part of the nation to participate in the celebration of this festival. Yeah? Yes. Now here's the next one. If you have any information that some political forces have been conducting mass assemblies, mass meetings, or mass meetings there, please give these statements to me, because the measures that were taken by the official city and district council in Lviv, these measures were protected by the police in accordance with the court’s decision and there was no violation of the law. And if, after these official celebrations of the event, certain extremist forces, realizing that the resources invested in them needed to be worked out, decided that the conflict should be initiated and that they had begun to attack certain places of the city against certain veterans in order to break the symbolism, these citizens or gentlemen would be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u16	Peter Simonenko refers the right to ask a question to a colleague of the Pigeon. Please. Blue Colleague, I said. Please, Your Honor, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u17	Anatoly Vladimirović, well, first of all, I want to say, if it weren't for the militia, we'd certainly be facing bloodshed in Holm Slava, and there might even be accidents and deaths. That's the question I have for you. These are the buses that we actually took the veterans to, we saw, the windows were knocked out, the windows on those buses, the smoke shafts were thrown into those holes. In fact, it is banditry and the attempt on the lives of one or more people. What kind of hooliganism is there, and what kind of violation of the administrative order? I mean, very clear, very specific actions. And the second part of the question. Have police personnel been analyzed for physical assault? I would like to say that the crowd led by the members of the Regional and City Council of Freedom chanted: "Death to the Soviet occupation! Death to the Moscals! A commie on a branch!" The most cynical thing was, let me ask you the most cynical question, when the prayer began to read the rabbi, it was the crowd that started chanting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, don't shout! Please complete the question in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u19	Thank you. When the rabbi began to read the prayer, the same crowd began chanting, "Hitler's coming to order." Do you analyze these statements? They'll be transferred.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u20	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u21	I answer you. I want to assure everyone that the police have enough experience and means to record all violations to date, so we have a virtually full video of all speeches, appeals, screams and so on. In these circumstances, criminal proceedings have been instituted for the organization of mass unrest. As part of the investigation of this criminal case, a legal assessment will be given to every person who has committed unlawful acts, not all of them, but to each subject, including the person who has broken the glass on the bus and the person who has broken the tapes and the person who has committed any physical violence there against the persons who have participated in these activities, to each person who has been given a legal assessment. This case will be under constant control. It will be investigated and given a legal assessment to every citizen who has committed unlawful acts there. No matter what colors and flags he's got.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u22	Yes. Persevere, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u23	Please hand over Alexander's Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u24	Alla Alexandrovska, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u25	Anatoly Vladimirovich, you know, I'm going to complement my friend, Dove Alexander Vladimirovich. You said you had enough technical capabilities, tools, skills to fix. But frankly, in the experience of the events in Harikov, I can safely conclude that no action is being taken. [[Not in Lviv, but in Harikov]] Please tell us what preventive work is being done with those who are not only in Lviv, but across Ukraine, these slogans, these screams, these threats that Sasha Dove quoted, we have in Kharkiv all over the walls, the threats are directly recorded, and no one is responding. [[and in Harikov]] You know my petitions to the Ministry of the Interior about the fact that we have paint all the time, the flags are being stolen. This year, the Flag of Victory was damaged, which we placed at the party's perimeter. None. I don't see any response from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. What are you going to do specifically?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u26	First, let me not agree with you that action is not being taken. Let me give you an example. Here is literally 9 May in Ternopolis, where the flag was also torn from the Communist Party's office. A criminal case has been instituted on this point, and a review is under way. I think that soon all those involved will be installed there. And for every fact, we give him an assessment. I understand, quite often, any action or event that emotionally causes a major storm, in terms of the storm of emotion, is legally subject to such a softer assessment under our legislation. That's why we're responsible for things like this. Of course, we're not going to bring anyone to justice. But we give every fact a legal assessment. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u27	People's deputy Wolinski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Peter Stepanovich Cibenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u29	Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u30	Thank you. The Communist faction. Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to address the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. What happened in Lviv is one of the consequences of Ukraine's failure to join the UN General Assembly in action to increase its responsibility for promoting fascism. The other one. This is one of the results of the failure of the Fascism Propaganda Bill last summer. Because this bloody slaughter was provided by the spiritual descendants and heirs of those who met fascists in the distant 1941s with bread and salt; those who received iron crosses from Hitler; those who forever branded themselves with cooperation with Fascism. I would like to ask the honourable minister: After the end of these events, the police said that the police had successfully carried out the tasks assigned. I want to ask you, what were the problems if the veterans were beaten?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u32	Well, the first part of your emotional statement by the Ministry of Internal Affairs isn't relevant. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is the agency that executes the law that exists. We can't add any law to ourselves. Now, with regard to the assessment of police personnel. The police have taken all necessary measures to guide them. to prevent gross violations of public order. That is why all these conflicts -- I emphasized in the report -- were short-term, we immediately crossed them, and we will give legal assessment to each of them. And if the police hadn't taken all the necessary measures, I'll tell you, in Lviv, there would have been a killing far more serious and scary, just a massacre that was planned by those who attacked the veterans. And since they couldn't do it, they're trying to do it now. This case is justified, so to speak, by the helplessness of these actions, by the helplessness of trying to justify this media situation, which is the crucible of this conflict. The conflict has been localized, and we have not allowed any violation of gross public order. I'm going to stress again: no physical veteran has been injured. Yes, moral damage, of course, carried a small one. Those who have done so will no doubt be responsible for the moral damage they have done. But we didn't allow bloodshed there, that's all that matters. In fact, over the past few days, I have received many calls from representatives of the political forces and from the political elite of Lviv thanks to the militia for not admitting these massive violations of public order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u33	Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u34	Dear Anatoly Vladimirovich! The faction of the Party of the Regions, almost all MPs join in the good wishes that have been addressed to the police, which truly deserve respect for the events that have been demonstrated in the personnel. But we must also understand that there are also personnel who say that militia personnel who did not actually use physical force have been attacked, which is already a violation of the Penal Code. And yet we expect your services to take appropriate measures to punish these people. That I'm still worried. That even in our room there are people who support neo-Nazi ideas. And when a person who claims to be good at knowledge and probably really knows the law, and says that there are prohibitions and they need to be followed, we must also remember that we have a Constitution that guarantees the right. And the Constitution is above all else. And the next moment. The personnel you showed us say what's certain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u35	Please complete the question. Please, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u36	That certain forces were preparing for this action in advance. The poles were shown to fit under the buses. People were wearing masks, matching tags and bandages. This indicates that organizational work was carried out in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. The militia knew about all this and we took positive action on these issues. As a result, most of the people who were going to provoke a violation of the rule of law in Lviv did not go to Lviv, thanks to these measures. Now, with regard to Alexander Sergeyevich, your words about the soft action of the militia, I agree with you, we will also draw conclusions from these events. We need to understand that no one has the right to touch a police officer when he's doing the law, to touch. You have seen the unlawful acts of individual citizens there and will be given a legal assessment. And with our employees, we will conduct briefings on the rules on the use of special means and everything else under existing legislation. Now, with regard to symbolism. As you rightly said, there are some law professionals here who speak. I will remind you that we have a Constitution in force: Ukrainian citizens are allowed to do everything that is not prohibited by law. Thus, the law does not prohibit the wearing of a George Lent, nor does it prohibit the red flag, and so on. It's not illegal. Therefore, citizens have the right to do so. Now, question number two: what I have the right to do by the police. Police officers have the right to do everything they are allowed by law. So I would like to remind the individual extremist elements that police officers are allowed, in accordance with the law, to use special forces in certain situations, including firearms. And believe me, in such situations, the health and safety of militia personnel is also one of the priorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And we're going to use all of these because there's no other way to fight these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u39	Saltus, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u40	Please tell me, 9 May, there was a shooting during the Day of Victory in Lviv. Is the person who shot and detained him identified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u41	So, during the 9th of May, 17 people in the city of Lviv sought medical treatment. Of these, 2 were hospitalized and the rest of them were so bruised, mammals who were sent home without any treatment. [[Now I'm going to explain what the diagnosis is.]] These two people are placed on permanent treatment. One gunshot wound to the knee joint is a trauma wound, a gun wound, a criminal case. And the second is a leg injury, which is a pretty serious injury, so he's also hospitalized. When it comes to the use of weapons, they are traumatized rubber bullets. A person who owns these weapons has been identified as having a traumatic weapon or having it in accordance with existing legislation, or having the appropriate authorization to carry these weapons. According to his explanation, he was attacked by unknown persons, but they were now found to have torn the tapes off him, and in response he used his traumatic weapon. I remind everyone that trauma weapons are weapons of active self-defence. And according to existing legislation, a citizen who has these weapons has the right to use them within a certain framework of self-defence. These facts are subject to criminal proceedings under the supervision of the Attorney General's Office, investigations into them, we will conduct a full investigation of them and, if someone is to be responsible for the conduct of those on the one hand or on the other, he will be brought to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u42	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u43	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine! Anatoly Volodymyrovich, I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u44	Right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u45	It's all the first general score. All that happened in Lviv is that in 20 years of independent Ukraine in our country, there was no process of destalinization and discommunization of Ukraine that was done in the Baltic States, the countries of Eastern Europe. It wasn't illegal "red fascism." And here's the red fascism dance that was just May 9th. Now let's ask you a question. There was no law on the Red Flag and it's not there yet. No, there was a court decision in Lviv, there were district council decisions, we had a video of buses stuck on the Ring Road around Berkutu, waiting for official action to be completed, and Berkut conducted it there for this provocation to open up that red flag. Here's the proof of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u47	Well, on the first part of your question to me. You know, I don't think there's a single call in the Supreme Council anymore, so it's not a question for the Ministry of Internal Affairs to ban any symbolism, not to ban anything else, not to me. It's a question to you as a national MP. Now question two. The second part of your question about buses that were guarding Berkut and running somewhere. Here, you've seen the footage of the movies. If it wasn't for the police guarding the veterans, how would it end? That is what individual extremist forces were counting on. So the police did not allow for any gross violations of public order. She separated the forces that tried to resist there. And I believe that every veteran of World War II has the right to visit graves, military burials during Victory Day, which, once again, is a state holiday in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u48	Basil Potapov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vasil Potapov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u49	Deputy Mutz. I'm telling you, Mutsu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u50	Who? Muff? Orestes Mutz, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u51	Minister, on Victory Day, there were no provocations. Although the Ternopil swindle did not prohibit the use of flags during the Day of Victory, Ukraine won the Great War. We respect all who fought. There is a widespread situation in the West where there is a family veteran of the Great Homeland War and an UPA veteran. We respect anyone who shed a drop of blood for a baby girl in Ukraine. The same sentiments prevail among the citizens of Lviv. What happened was only the result of provocations, including individual political forces in the parliamentary opposition. The opposition's plans are to destroy the prospects for Galicina's well-being, to take the Euro-2012, to take out the Westerners who fled from the orange poverty, to earn money in Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u52	Please, please, calm down. Please, calm down, dear fellows. Anatoly Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u53	Let me answer that, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u54	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u55	No, I'll answer that. The task of the police in our country is to ensure the rule of law. So I call on all the political forces, let's stop beating the country. As long as we squander the country, the economy will not rise. And one region or another will have to say so. Thus, if we for at least a few years ensure the stability and normal development of the situation in the country, it will raise the well-being of the people. And we have some political forces floating in a boat called Ukraine, trying to keep it rolling on board. There'll never be so much of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u56	Thank you. Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u57	Thank you. Please pass the word to Bevéz Valérie.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u58	Valerius Ananiyovich Beaz, Communist faction. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u59	Thank you. Well, honourable colleagues, who are very concerned about red color, are advised to go to Spain and take part in the hall as a bull. That's the first one. () [[Applause]] And what happened in Lviv is not Minister Mogilov's problem, and it's not just the police's problem. This is about our nation's national security, and that is why this issue needs to be discussed at the National Security and Defence Council at the President's level. Well, as for the events themselves, Anatoly Volodymyrovich, I have one question. Five criminal cases have been violated according to your help. Today, which is the fourth day, as it were, after the events, please inform us: Who is detained on suspicion of committing crimes, and who is arrested for criminal offences? [[Number]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u60	Well, Your Honor General, you do realize that one case is disturbed by the fact of mass disturbances. So to put it, it has a more, longer term for identifying individuals. In the other four cases. On three, the faces are fixed. One person has been declared wanted, and according to our data, he has left Ukraine. For the rest of the people, some of them are there, so to speak, on sick leave, so they're not attracted yet. There is an investigation into these cases. There are three persons in place. Moreover, I am deeply convinced that the video material and means available to record these offences will enable all persons involved to be identified. They are established, and we will take action on them in accordance with existing legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u61	Garbage, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u62	I give the word to Vadim Koleschenka. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Vadim Koleschenka!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u63	Vadim Koleschenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Koleszenko, faction of Party regions. Anatoli Vladimirović, very rightly in his comment, noted the constitutional right. I will not comment on the ruling of the Lviv court, but I think that the Attorney-General should have been here because, in accordance with the 2000 Act on the perpetuation of victory in the Great National War, the respect for the memory of victory against veterans is the sacred duty of Ukrainian citizens, which is the first, and respect for State rewards and other symbols of the Great National War is our duty. That is why what has happened is, first of all, the decision of the Lviv Platform, which has not yet been overturned. I have a question. There was no such outrage in Western Ukraine. In Luke and Ternopolis, there were people with copies of the Marks of Victory, with George's stripes, everything went fine. There is information that the leader of the anti-fascist committee of Lvivščina, Alexander Kalenjuk, has been beaten, and this is confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u65	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u66	I will answer the last part of this issue of beating up the leader of the anti-fascist bloc. On this point, criminal proceedings have been instituted, and three persons who have injured him have been found. They will be taken in accordance with the law. And part of the first question you ask is just as if the police are fulfilling the law that they are. We will clearly give the wrong legal assessment for each fact that has been recorded.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u67	Alexander Steshenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u68	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please give my colleague Victor Vasilovich Taran a word. [[Field]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u69	Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u70	Here a red MP spoke of some interesting slogans that he had heard of Lviv. Well, maybe he repeated it again so everyone could hear some interesting slogans he was saying. But, seriously, the Fascists in Lviv cried out, "Hochli parasha is our victory," "The Death of Galicia." And so please call the names of these provocateurs. Can you please tell me if the extremists of the family's pro-fascist organizations, Russian Unity, have been questioned? And it's no longer up to you when the Galicians here are being reproached for allegedly meeting the bread of the Germans, so if you'll excuse me, the reds have also been met in the 39th year with the bread-force, but how did that end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u71	Well, actually, your question is quite original, which started with statements, some slogans that don't fit your image at all, frankly. Now, about the radically left forces you're talking about. So, one second. Wait. Let me tell you. Well, let me tell you, after all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, if you're not interested in answering questions and asking the minister, let's stop doing that. Please, let's listen to each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u73	Indeed, on 9 May, radical forces were planned to leave Crimea, Sevastopol, Odessa, Lviv. After the decisions of the Lviv court had been handed down to the leaders of these organizations, there were no departures to the city of Lviv. We fixed it. Now, I'm going to keep going, if you're going to, so to speak, here's where you want me to report to the end. I'm telling you. At the train station of Lviv, we were detained, we were tracking all movements, 5 persons with “Freedom” certificates, with a red flag of the Russian Unity. For what purpose did they arrive there, question them, and question them? We will not hold them accountable, but there is, however, such a fact. They are these persons, who are familially recorded, who were detained in the territory of the Lviv train station. And these provocations, under so many slogans, will be fought and acted by the citizens of those organizations you called, organized in Lviv. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u74	Gennady Samofalov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u75	I'd like to give the floor to my colleague Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u76	Mikhailo Chechetov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u77	Dear Anatoly Vladimirovich! You are absolutely right that the scenario of the nationalist fascist Sabbath in Lviv was well organized and directed. If we were to show what was happening in Lviv on one screen, and on the other, what was in the Hall at the Kharkiv accords, scenario one was fascist. And in Lviv, and here, smoke checkers were thrown. And there were people being poisoned, and there were people being poisoned. Dozens of deputies got sick and went to the hospital. But I have a question. Here you will examine and give us a list of these national fascist organizations, whose work is based on fascist ideology, we will vote in the Hall, ban them, radically destroy Fascism, and show the world that Ukraine's democratic country and fascism will not pass here. We know how fascism began in the 1930s in Germany! We need to root it out, and we need to root it out!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u78	Please, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u79	Well, to be honest, it's not really up to me to present such material to the Supreme Council, in a large way. I would like to assure you, Commissioner of the People's Republic, that we will take action in accordance with the law on all illegal acts under Ukrainian law. And all those who break the law will be held accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u80	Zinovo Shkutjak, “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u81	Mr. Minister, you said in your statement that preventive methods had been used, that is, preventive measures had been taken. Please tell me, if such precautions were taken, you knew about the possible things, the disturbances that could have been in Lviv, why was the district police chief on vacation? First question. The second question. Why was it that, with the militia, the provokers who came to create in Lviv the provocation were accompanied by a place where you had before fenced and even not allowed people to put flowers in the graves of people who are sacred: a person has the right to worship his grave, there, relatives, parents and so forth? So you could protect people from going there, but just to get the provokes there, you just brought them in under guard. And the next question. If you are saying that you have complied with the decision of the Court of Lviv, why were they so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u82	Please complete the question-making process.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u83	Why were there such disturbances? If the decision of the Lviv court has not been carried out, should we not resign?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u85	Thank you for asking, I'll let you know. In Lviv, an operational headquarters was established, which was headed by the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Therefore, thanks to the actions of militia personnel, we have prevented gross violations of public order and, above all, bloodshed in Lviv. The police have carried out their main task in this regard. Thus, if someone does not like the actions of the police and that we have failed to accept the provocations that were planned and have failed to develop the financial resources invested in this action to blow up the skeleton throughout the country, those are the problems of the forces that have tried to do so. The militia has fulfilled its duty to the Ukrainian people and the lions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u86	People's Deputy Tishchenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u87	You know, you calm down, and I'm not playing anybody, from 10:00 to 11:00, there's an hour of questions for the government. And calm down, please. When you perform endlessly, I'll play a game for you. Calm down. I have acted according to the Rules and calm down for five minutes. Calm down. Tishenko, the Faction "BUT" is the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u88	I give the word to Goodimi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u89	Goodima, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u90	Gudima, Yulia Timoshenko's House of Fatherhood. Dear National Deputies! I will ask questions and advice as a Levian, and as the son of a World War II participant, my father fought in the Red Army from 1939 to 1945, I will not ask questions but a few suggestions. First - Minister’s advice. I recommend you resign since you failed to comply with the President's order for three months to learn the national Ukrainian language. You have misinterpreted the name of the city of Lviv 11 times during your performance. This is the first advice. The other one. I wanted to advise you to resign for covering organized provocations in Lviv, but you probably won't, because after the Communists and regionals have responded, you'll probably be represented by the name Hero of Ukraine. And the third. I wanted to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u91	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u92	I am grateful to the National MP for offering me the name Hero of Ukraine. Thank you very much. Now it's about the Ukrainian language. If you think I should answer in English, I'll answer you in English. That's not a question. When I was asked questions in Russian, I answered them in Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u93	But please, Mikhailo Kosov. Mikhail Kosov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u94	No, I realize that even though the police did not allow bloodshed in Lviv, it causes a negative reaction in some individuals. And it really requires me to resign. These are their problems, not mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u95	Please, Mikhail Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u96	Mikhailo Kossov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Anatoly Mikolaiovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u97	Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u98	Volodymyrovich. I firmly claim as a Levian that your information is one - sided and false. I make it clear that to Lviv from those places that you say they refused to go to Lviv, but 8 buses (8!) It did come. [[Yes, indeed, many refused.]] I strongly argue that these young men who were passing through the street of Lviv. I know Lviv, and I know Lviv, and there's no one among them you call "right." There's family and Russian Unity. By the way, they arrived on their buses and before.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u99	Please. Yeah, take it easy. Please answer this question, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u100	Let me answer that. I'm shocked by your memory that you know in the face of all the lions, first. Secondly, if you have the facts that someone came to Lviv from other regions, let's do this data, we'll check it out. No questions asked. But I'll tell you what, I can show you on these images that we've been showing you, I can show you the people who took part in this action in Lviv -- these are groups of people headed by the head of the Ternopil shell, under the head of the John-Frankian Arch. Here are some of these regions, in fact, a large number of people very aggressively came to Lviv.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u101	National MP Pierres, please. [[10:59:43]] (Signed) Perederius V Vladimir Mihajlovich, please give the floor to Deputy Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u102	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u103	Vladimir Bondarenko. Of course, we all realize that provocations began much earlier. They began with the comments of the Russian prime minister, who had ruined Ukraine's participation in this war, my grandfathers who had died, my uncles, my many relatives and many Ukrainian relatives. The second thing that was done for provocation was the approval of the Supreme Council decision on the Red Flag. This is the Red Flag, under which in Brest in 1939 fascists and Communists went one way against Europe, against humanity, against everything. This flag is once again on the street to provoke people. Next. There's a statement today by "Russian Unity," which says directly that we didn't drive in an organized way, our people were in Lviv in large numbers. Read it online. So neither the police nor the C.E.U.S.A. was able to handle the job. With that alone. Who would have the benefit of that? And at the convenience of Janukovic, who is now losing authority, he was consolidating his electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u104	Yes, please. Question time completed. Please, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u105	Well, I think your grandfathers, who you say took part in World War II there, will be very grateful for your statement regarding the Red Flag. They'll be very grateful, I think. And all your others, so to speak, if information were that it was supposed to be Russian Unity, tomorrow will be Simonck's statement on the Internet that he provoked all these actions in Lviv. And that's going to be a clear lie. So that's a lie, what you're saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u106	Thank you. Anatoly Volodymyrovich, time's up. Dear colleagues! The year of questions to the government has been completed. I thank the Minister of Internal Affairs for communicating with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I thank the members of the government for participating in the “hour of questions to the government”. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Friday to announce the parliamentary requests. Allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. From Vladimir Yavorowski to President of Ukraine Well, here's the wording, my dear fellows, I'm making it more precise to make it sound like it's supposed to sound like a conceited bureaucratic language. And I would ask my respectable colleagues to save their creativity for other things. To the President of Ukraine on the initiative of Peter Simonenck to deprive the Ukrainian city of Lviv of the right to hold the European Championship 2012 football matches. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:03:02]] For-23 Request not supported. Gennady Zadirk to the President of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of Nikolai city authorities in the housing of a multi-child family of 12 people living in a 1-room apartment with a total housing area of 14.5 square meters, which is 1.2 square meters per inhabitant. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[11:03:47]] For-32 Request not supported. Olega Lalashka to the President of Ukraine on the need for the identification by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of thousands of dollars in the amount of payment to be paid to organize the funeral and to carry out a memoranda of action by depositors of the Savings Bank of Ukraine or insured persons of the former “Ukradzhsgericht” who have not been paid back an indexed contribution or insurance contribution. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:04:29]] For the five of us. Request not supported. Alexia Fedun to the President of Ukraine about the payment of the shares of Rodowed Bank to the investor Eugene Dukov. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:05:00]] For the four of us. Request not supported. Jurija Gnatkević to the President of Ukraine for reasons of dissatisfaction with the lack of response to the parliamentary appeal, which suggested a toponymic reform on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's independence. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:05:32]] For-27 Request not supported. Jurya Litvina to the President of Ukraine on the urgent inclusion of a project to build a bridge crossing across the South Bug River in the city of Mikolayev into a strategy for cooperation between the World Bank and Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[11:06:05]] For 212 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:06:27]] For 239. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the provocations that took place on 9 May 2011 in Lviv near Slava's Hill. [[Stojko, Grigorovitch, Kendzor and others]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:07:00]] For-64 Request not supported. Jurija Gnatkević to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for concern over the fate of Bill No. 8074, which was called upon to make the most objective of the working hours of the Ukrainian people’s deputies. Vasil Pétovka to Ukraine’s Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the situation surrounding the detention of Paul Deschka. Boris Tarasyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the inactivity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the elimination of the dangerous arsenal of weapons in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, located in the village of Tsvetokh Slavutski district of the Hmelnicki district, which poses a potential threat to the technological security of the Hmelnik AES and the inhabitants of the surrounding population. Orestes Muz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Fight against Organized Crime and Corruption, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine on the activities of the Supervisory Board and the co-founder of the agroholding "Mria", the Hero of Ukraine, John Gouti, which led to the acquisition of nearly a billion dollars from the agrarian sector of nearly 80 per cent of the Ternopil region. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care for the use of urgent measures to prevent a reduction, contrary to article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Medical Department of the Borislav Central Hospital, ensuring the implementation of the constitutional right to health of the citizens of the city of Borislav Lviv region, who live in one of the most ecologically polluted areas and the priority activities of the State in the area of health protection in the region. Jury Karmazin to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Commissioner for Human Rights, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures of reaction aimed at restoring the damaged housing and consumer rights of residents of the city of Branka-1 Lugansk region, strict compliance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on Housing and Communal Services, the "Procurement of Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare" in providing citizens with water services, verification of compliance with the district utility company Luganskvod. Vassil Wooden to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate provision of State control over the activities of Ukrbudinvest to protect the rights of fraudulent fuel companies involved in this corporation, created and led by Zinovy Szczopanowski. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of road cover near the Chernigs – Chernobyl. Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate to take away the premises of the Preyyaslav College in Preyyaslavi-Hmelnicki, where the Grigory Skovorda Memorial Museum is located, for the creation of the Holy Woznesen Man Monastery, which will result in the loss of one of the centres of spirituality and culture of Ukraine and will have a negative impact on the historical and cultural image of our country in the world. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the creation of a commission of inquiry for the bankruptcy of Black Sea shipping and the involvement of guilty persons in criminal responsibility, as well as the investigation into Leonid Krawczuk's involvement. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for the production of a project on the cost-effective documentation for the construction of a new bridge in the village of Rizhana Voddar Volin district, in the Zitomir region. Mikhail Sokolov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the recalculation of pension payments to persons with disabilities as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, participants in the liquidation of the Chernobyl AES accident and families for the loss of a breadwinner. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the effectiveness of executive authorities in assisting those who have suffered from trafficking in human beings and slavery. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for clarification of the legal consequences of the refusal of citizens to contract with municipal enterprises. Olega Lalashka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to define a Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the level of 1 thousand dollars in the amount of the payment for the organization of the funeral and the holding of the memorial and ritual institutions of depositors of the Savings Bank of Ukraine, or the insured persons of the former "Standergericht" who have not been paid back the indexed contribution or the insurance contribution. Alexander Schepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to continue the implementation of the State's first-line programme for centralized water supply to rural areas using imported water. Alexander Shepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent the decommissioning of centralized water supply in the city of Raven. Alexia Fedun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the payment of the shares of Rodowed Bank to the investor Eugen Dukov. Helen Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the non-derogation of violations of the constitutional rights of children to secure education through the closure of schools in the village of Olshanka. Orestes Muz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, on the involvement of the head of the Ternopil Regional Audit Office of John Panz in the acquisition of municipal property with a total value of over 100 million dollars and an obstacle to the detection of financial irregularities. Peter Pisarczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing preparations and marking in 2011 the 800th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Bibrka in the Lviv region and the 540th anniversary of the granting of the city of Magdeburg. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for the protection of land rights in the village of Berezov Rudka in the region of Poltava and delaying the implementation of government decisions on business dissipation. [[pear]] Sergia Koshina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of construction funds in the Dubrovnik district of the Plains district of the sewage collector from the Dubrovnik Central Hospital to the CNS-2. Sergija Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funding for the construction of Kazankov Group Water to provide drinking water to residents of rural Kazankov district of the Mikolai region. Sergei Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding the completion in 2011 of the construction of a public education school in the village of Gopčica in the district of Vynicka. Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the calculation of the gasification of individual rural areas in the Cherkas region. Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the Cerka district cancer dispenser. Valerija Baranova to the finance minister of Ukraine regarding the insufficient financial situation associated with the execution of local self - government bodies in Zaporozhye, the delegated powers of executive authorities. Mikoli Komara to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Regional Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the solution of the issue of bringing the state of the school No.18 of Slovenia, the Donetsk Region into line with the norms and requirements of fire, environmental and sanitary safety in 2011. Tarasa Crnovola to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the violation of the laws on the appointment of the National Sports Complex "Olympic", the egregious illiteracy of the employees of UKROINFRAPROECT and the inappropriate response to the parliamentary appeal. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine regarding the transfer of Watersbury to the municipal property of the city with the aim of providing quality water to the inhabitants of Sarna and the microregion of the Research Station of the Plains region. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the purpose of the continued stay of Roman Immortal in the post of Ambassador of Ukraine in the Republic of Belarus. Vladimir Tolstenka to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine regarding the non-closure of the Thessaloniki School of Education in the Region of Poltava. Edouard Prutnik to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Montenegrin District State Administration, is concerned about the need for a comprehensive review of the conversion of a veteran of work, a child of war, a resident of Chernigov Eugenia Pimenov in order to contribute to the welfare of her son Vitalia, a disabled first group of TB patients, and adequate preventive medical care for the purpose of further treatment and rehabilitation. Mikoli Shershun to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine for the reinstatement of the pension of a member of the family of soldier Michael Momota, who died during military service. Paul Silent to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the investigation into the criminal theft of tridents from memory in honor of the proclamation of Ukraine’s national sovereignty in Kharkiv. Sergija Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Head of the Žitomir District State Administration for a superficial examination of the previous parliamentary request for protection of land rights in the village of Veliki Gadomci of the Žitomir Region, which violates the executive and judicial authorities and prohibits the use of land without establishing documents of the Private Shareholder Society "Ukrainska kaolina Company". [[pear]] Vasila Petyovka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the purchase of securities through the leadership of the Closed Stock Exchange Society Agribud-1. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the violation of the legal rights of citizens of Yuri Katrečko and Viktor Living by creating artificial barriers to the knowledge of criminal material, unwarranted extension of the term of custody and the prosecution's staff being held accountable. John Stoyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the insolent beating of two Olympic athletes on April 24, 2011, in the city of Ternopil. Eugene Zarkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Odessa City Head, on the annulment of the decision of the Odessa City Council Executive Committee of June 9, 2006 and the Odessa City Council session of June 27, 2006, No96-V concerning the transfer of Vladimir Lenin's monument in connection with the new circumstances that were established by the Odessa City Council deputies – the falsification of primary sources of information in part of public opinion, as well as strict. as well as a violent violation of Ukrainian legislation. Maybearda's Sergey to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the authorities of the Pechersky district of Kiev regarding the delay in the discovery of a criminal case. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the head of the Cerkas District State Administration on 9 May 2011 of the Red Flag of Victory in the administrative buildings of Cherkasa. [[Jewish, Wooden, and Others]] Zinoviya Shkutzaka and Vladimir Vizewski to the Attorney General of Ukraine to provide conditions for the functioning of the Kyiv City Organization of the All-Ukrainian Society Memorial, the Museum of Soviet Occupation, and the Civil Institute of Historical Memory. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the need to investigate the use of Soviet flags on the buildings of state authorities, local self-government bodies and state institutions alongside the State Flag of Ukraine. [[Men, Men, Men, Men, Men, Men, Men, Men, Men, Men, Men, Men, Men, ……]] Oleg Malic, head of the Ukrainian State Agency for Land Resources, on the misconduct of employees of the Ukrainian State Agency for Land Resources in the Obukh district of Kiev. Zinovia Shkutka to the Prosecutor of the Ivano-Frankow district for bringing to justice the responsibility of the deputy of the Kalu city head of Vitalina Radecka for the public humiliation of the honour, dignity and religious feelings of Ukrainian citizens. [[Ivano-Frankiv region]] Alexia Plotnikov to the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the Prosecutor’s Office of Kiev regarding the need to verify the facts presented in the address of the inhabitants of the Holy District of Kiev, a retired teacher with 47 years of work, Lyudmila Sventiski, on the correctness of her pension. Jury Litvina to the head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the Regional Administration of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine in the Kirovograd Region, for the violation by the Ulyanov Regional Court of the Kirovograd Region of the rules of procedural law, namely, the terms for the consideration of court applications. Alexander Blackwolf to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the organization of the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's independence in Kiev. Thus, honourable national deputies, 88 parliamentary inquiries have been made. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u107	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm just saying that you started teaching me how to write MPs' questions. We have a civilized normal relationship with you, and I'm here to support them. But I just want to remind you that I've written over a thousand questions in my life, and my MPs are a little bit bigger than yours. And besides, I've written some dark books and I've never been suspicious of plagiarism or anything like that. That's why I'm asking you so much, as I wrote, so be it. This is in my name. And don't make me. I'm here to put it in that dot and not continue this opposition. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u108	I'm sorry, too. Because if you asked there about plagiarism, I didn't sing the ossan, and I'm sorry. But please, my fellow Members, my fellow Members, I ask you to formulate your parliamentary requests in the same way that MPs are supposed to formulate your requests. And sing your art in a different way. And I'm asking the secretariat to accept parliamentary requests as parliamentary requests. All right, everybody, calm down. We're normal. That's not the way to roll what's not rolling. Dear National Deputies! It's being announced for consideration -- the draft Regulation on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2012, [[Registration number 8348, 8348-d]] Dear colleagues! I'm inviting you to the interview. And the minister? Minister of Finance, please, Your Honor. Valerius Baranov will be the narrator. After that, honourable colleagues, this rule is proposed: a statement by the factions and then a speech by the national MPs. In total, if you don't mind, within half an hour. And if it was your good will, we wouldn't take a break, we'd consider all the questions, and then we'd work until 1:00, and then we'd move on to the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u109	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! On behalf of the government, allow me to present the draft guidelines for the 2012 budget policy, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and assisted by the budgetary committee, taking into account the proposals made by the people's deputies. The main directions of budgetary policy for 2012 have been developed to implement Article 33 of the Budget Code and are based on the Regulations of the Economic Reform Programme for 2010-2014. The clear implementation of the guidelines for the functioning of the public finances system next year and the successful implementation of the tasks identified by the document will contribute to achieving the strategic goals of the country's development as set out in President Viktor Fedorovich Yanuković's annual letter to the Supreme Council. The guidelines for the functioning of the public finance system for the following year are based on the positive economic trends achieved last year and fixed in the current year. In particular, more than 5 percent of GDP is expected in the first quarter against the corresponding period last year; industrial output increased by 9.7 percent; and inflation is 3.3 percent. The corresponding fiscal policy orientations for 2012 envision the creation of a major financial document at a purely real macroeconomic rate, namely: real GDP growth is projected at 6.5 percent. The nominal GDP is going to be 1 trillion 475 billion dollars. The main drivers of growth will be: the restoration of investment activity in countries, the revitalization of the modernization of national production, the development of national domestic production, the improvement of business climate, the creation of favourable conditions for investment and other objectives. In 2012, there was a forecast to create favourable conditions for the development of sectors as a key factor in the growth of the national economy. In contrast to past years, emphasis will shift from the targeted support of individual enterprises to the support and implementation of investment and innovation projects. A coherent anti-inflation policy, monetary, budgetary policy, will help reduce inflation to 7.9 percent. Childhooding and creating new jobs will keep unemployment at 7.2 - 7.7 percent. The official rate of the bracelet is projected at 7.9 - 8.0 dollars per U.S. dollar. Please note that the government is currently clarifying the main macro-indicators, such as the size of nominal GDP. The 2012 Draft Basic Policy Guidelines provide a qualitatively new approach to the development and content of a new State financial instrument. This is primarily the case with the introduction, starting in 2012, of medium-term budgetary planning with clear fiscal and expenditure orientations, while optimizing the number of budget programmes of the Chief Executives. Secondly, it is proposed to reduce the government budget deficit to 2.5 percent. It should be borne in mind that in recent years the deficit in the government sector has reached record levels. If the deficit was 2.1 percent of GDP in 2007, it was 18.7 percent in 2009. In 2012 and beyond, measures will be taken to substantially reduce the deficit of the government sector to the level of government deficit. In addition, there is a reduction in government debt relative to GDP to no more than 30 per cent, a reduction in the share of GDP over the consolidated budget compared to 2011 which will reduce the budgetary burden on the economy and increase the ability of enterprises to finance their own development. Tax policy in 2012 will be based on the introduction of progressive money from the Tax Code, which, inter alia, foresees a reduction in corporate tax rates, the introduction of automatic VAT compensation, the preservation of preferences for farmers, the introduction of low-progress taxation of the income of individuals, the promotion of Ukraine's innovative technological development. An additional investment resource, directed to the real economy by preference, is at least 41 billion dollars. In 2012, a 5 percent increase in the investment expenditure of the budget is planned. In doing so, state guarantees will be provided exclusively for investment and innovation projects within 1 percent of GDP. In the social sphere, fiscal policy is geared towards increasing social guarantees. In particular, living minimum according to social assistance and pensions, minimum wage, and first rate rates. and their gradual approach, state and social assistance to children. State policy on supporting regional and economic growth in 2012 will aim to ensure the continued socio-economic development of the regions. In particular, it is envisaged that a national regional development fund will be set up to implement strategic regional development projects, inter-regional cooperation. In addition, in the medium term, there is a gradual increase in the drinking weight of local budgets in Ukraine’s consolidated budget, based on improved inter-budget relations and increased self-sufficiency of local budgets. Dear National Deputies! The government, along with the Committee on Budgets, has done a great deal of work to take the proposals of the people’s deputies into account in the main budget policies project. In particular, several working group meetings were held to deal with proposals. As a result, the Basic Directions project took into account the numerous proposals made by the National Deputies and the Committees of the Supreme Council. Thus, proposals are taken into account for the mandatory refinement of macro indicators, quarterly increases in subsistence minimum and minimum wage levels, prioritization of tax policies with regard to the assessment of tax benefits, countering a reduction in the customs value of goods, improving land administration, complementing the State Budget’s relationship with local budget standards. Decentralization and expansion of revenue. Development budget. Designed and implemented by a national programme for the introduction of agriculture and radioactively polluted areas and comprehensive rehabilitation. Legislative. regulation of the return of savings to citizens. Based on what we have learned, we can conclude that the presentation. The main thrusts of budgetary policy will be a solid basis for a balanced State Budget project for 2012 and for the medium term. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Yuri Serbin. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Minister! Colleagues, if you'll excuse me, please sit down. I'd like you to sit down, if you please. Good afternoon! Dear Mr. Minister! You said there was 41 billion that could be sent to investment projects. We have two serious problems: both social and economic. First. This is the reform of the LHC. That's my question. Will funding be allocated next year for the 100 percent implementation of the AMRP programme? That's the first question. And the second question. As long as we're next year. We need to use 212 billion to pay off our housing debt. How much money is planned next year to build social housing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u112	Thank you for asking. As for the first question. I want to say that now all national programmes that are provided for by the relevant laws are being implemented by the Ministry of Finance. And every year we make proposals for your consideration, and it's approved by the State Budget Act for the year in question. So, you know, when during the crisis, 2008-2009, almost no program was funded, all the programs were frozen. And in 2010, we started funding these programs. As to the second question. I want to tell you that in the State Budget project that we're going to give in September, we're already focusing on the issues that you asked, we're going to take into account, and you're going to see specific figures.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u113	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u114	Dear Fedor Aleksevich! Well, those macroeconomic indicators that you said were really encouraging. This is also the stability of the currency exchange rate, this is inflation, this is 2.5 budget deficits. [[7.9 - 8.0]] [[7.9]] So how does the economy get a little bit higher? That's my question. So, if we can really do this -- and I'm sure we can do this together this year, next year will be the next step? So we're growing up now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u115	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. I want to give you one more example, really, that if you remember, when we took the 2010 budget, I told you that our nation's economy would work by formula as an economy of patience. And we've really put up with 2010 -- and we've set the stage for the economy to develop in 2011 on the foundations of sustainable development. I want to tell you today, I'm going to give you a new formula that will be applied in 2012, 2013, 2014 is a formula for success of fiscal policy as a locomotive for reform. And it's going to be oriented like this: it's a social orientation that stimulates production and consumption chains, it's an active model of medium-term development planning and decentralization of income and expenditure, it's supporting an investment, innovative model for Ukraine's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u116	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u117	Dear Fedor Alexiovich! Indeed, there has been more systemic fiscal policy development in the state this year, but we understand that such serious issues as the financing of the State Budget Pension Fund and the deficit on the basis of those privatisation revenues, we realize that the privatisation next year will not give us the amount that we have received in this regard. Please tell us how the social component will be provided for those commitments that the state now assumes and what is determined by the Ukrainian President’s program. That's the first question. And the budget next year, this is the budget, when the Euro-2012 is held, we understand that this is not only the preparation of certain infrastructure objects, but also full funding, and territories, and the social expenditure that is foreseen in the budget, and also investment projects. How much will this be taken into account when preparing the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u118	On the first question, I want to tell you that the President of our nation and the government in question are demonstrating to the world the policy of raising the social standards of our state. So we did it in 2010, we did it in 2011, and the new formula that I told you has a long, stable, reliable process, that's the first question, raising social standards, they're also going to increase in 2012, 2013, 2014. With regard to the second question of the Euro. I absolutely assure you, as Minister of Finance, that there are no threats and challenges to the financing of the Euro-2012 objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u119	Thank you, sit down, please. Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valérie Baranov Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u120	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The government’s draft guidelines for budgetary policy for the following year are in line with the requirements of part four of article 33 of the Budget Code. Unlike previous years, in order to implement the rules of the new budget code, the document has been developed two months earlier and a well-defined basic budget parameters for the following year 2012. The government sees a significant improvement in the economy and the further stability of public finances over the years. It is also important to welcome the plans of the Cabinet of Ministers to optimize the number of public-purpose and budgetary programmes, to introduce a medium-term budget forecast, for the first time in this year, according to an approved government concept, to submit a national economic and social development programme for the following year before the start of the consideration of the State Budget project, and to apply it as a basis for ensuring the consistency of public policy and the concentration of public financial resources in economic and social development priorities. From committees and national deputies to the Committee on Budget Affairs, nearly 150 proposals were made. These proposals are carefully worked out by the Budget Committee in conjunction with Minfin, and most of them are taken into account in the drafting of the document. The committee, along with Minfin, has developed over 50 proposals supported by the Prime Minister. Regional development, strengthening the financial base of local self-government, investment, and others have been developed. The quarterly increase in living minimum and minimum wage, the improvement of the formal state of employment to provide vocational and technical higher education, depending on labour market needs, taking into account the financial possibilities of the state. The introduction of the tax benefit effectiveness assessment tool and the intensification of the debt repayment process. Improving the administration of land payments, primarily by sorting out inter-agency communication. The calculation of expenditure calculated in the determination of inter-budget transfers on the basis of national social standards and standards. Mainly, the implementation of budgetary decentralization, primarily the transfer of local budgets, the expenditure of the local budget under individual budgetary programmes, while at the same time allocating state funds to provide them. State stimulus, energy consumption, and many other suggestions. In this way, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft Decree on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2012, on a co-worked editorial committee, number 8348-d. And I ask you to support the committee's decision on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the chairman of the committee. Names of the national MPs, please. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u122	Thank you. I have a question, I wanted to ask the Minister of Finance, but the head of the Committee on Budgets will understand that. The fact is that Ukraine's 2011 budget does not yet ensure Ukraine's continued economic growth. And this, by the way, is shown in that table that we saw here, the decline in the volume of industrial production in the first quarter of this year. The last year was 2004, the year of Prime Minister Januković, when state-owned capital investment was 2.5 times higher than social expenditure. As early as 2005, late investment was only 40 percent of social expenditure, and we are still going this sad way. 2011 A budget dedicated exclusively to a fuel-energy complex. Please tell the Committee on Budgets that preferences should be reviewed in the direction of the basic sectors of the national economy. State investment in metallurgy, machine building, including agricultural machinery, the military-industrial complex, is the basis for growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u123	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. I fully support you and I want to say that statistics today say that the growth in the budget for the first quarter has exceeded 4.5 billion bracelets. This is encouraging in the fact that the economy is emerging from the crisis. This provides an opportunity for the Ministry of Finance, the Government and the Committee of Budget, and we are working in a close understanding to plan priorities for next year in the development of production and those sectors of the economy that generate profits. Moreover, I would like to say that this morning, the Minister of Finance and I met with the Prime Minister to discuss the idea of establishing regional development funds. Thus, the Government is working on this today, and the growth of the economy gives hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u124	Sergey Shevchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u125	Dear Sir, please tell us, as you know, the Presidential Administration is talking about health reform, medical reform. Literally yesterday, the president criticized the Ministry of Health for trampling on the ground. But any reform needs funds. And in the bills prepared by the President's Administration, one source of increased funds is the sale of buildings potentially those hospitals that will be closed and in such a way as to find additional resources. It really is. Please tell me, in the budget resolution, can you say that substantial funds will be allocated to the reform of health care in Ukraine? Will it really take place only on the basis of the sale of indoors in rural hospitals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u126	Thank you. I don't have information. The fact that the only source of income is the sale of closed health facilities. I think it's wrong, and we don't have any kind of legislation. On the contrary, we have acts that prohibit the optimisation of health and education. Although the question of optimisation is hard, you know. Today, Ukraine has the largest number of school teachers per thousand students in Europe. And the largest number of teachers in Europe for a thousand patients. This should therefore be the case. At the same time, the Ministry of Health and Government plans to significantly increase health expenditures next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u127	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the factions. From factions. Please record. Can you give me a name, please? Now, one minute. Yes, Mikhailo Chechetov, Vladimir Karpuk, Oleg Zarubinsky, Caplienko, Alexandrovska and Korz. And now I'm asking you to sign up for the national MPs, the national MPs. Please give me a name. Yes. Thank you. Instead of Michael Chechtov, there will be a national MP, Melnik, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the distinguished national deputies! I am developing these heads of the budget committee, Valerija Alexiyovich Baranov, and I want to report that the main orientations for the functioning of the public finance system for the following year are based on the positive economic trends achieved last year and fixed in the current year, particularly in the 1st quarter of the relevant period last year, by a corresponding period last year, with previous estimates of GDP growth expected by 5 percent, industrial production volumes increased by 9.7 percent. And I want to point out that for the first time, let's say, secondly, more faithfully, in the history of the new Ukraine, in accordance with article 33 of the Budget Code, the government has given the right, basic policies for budgetary policy for 2012 at the right time. It is this policy that provides for the transition from an economy of patience to an economy of growth, of development. I'll stop at the head. First, the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2012 are based on the Economic Reform Programme 2010-2014, "Affordable Society, a Competitive Economy, an Effective State". It's a practical implementation of the President's policies, the policies of our state. The other one. The indicators identified in the main directions are realistic. They're confirmed by the dynamics of our economy, they're consistent with the projections of international organizations and experts. And this is a guarantee of macroeconomic stability, stability and balance in the budget system. Third. The main directions are to address painful social issues, such as increases in size, wages, pensions, and benefits. Four. There are substantial resources to accelerate economic growth. First of all, this involves increasing investment expenditure to 5 percent of the gross domestic product and providing State guarantees to investment projects. [[I want to point out that in the current year 2011 this is 4.52 percent]] And the fifth. The creation of the State Regional Development Fund is envisaged, that is, the region will receive additional resources for its development. And finally. The main directions are to reduce the budget deficit to 2.5 percent, a guarantee of the security of the state, a concern for future generations. All of this points out that we are dealing with a quality, balanced and balanced document that defines the right and expected community orientation for the drafting of the State Budget next year. I'd like to emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u129	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u130	Ukraine's deputies and their proposals have found reflection in the final edition of the main directions. The faction of the Party of the Regions therefore supports the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2012, proposing approval of the project to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u131	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk is referring the right to speak to Paul Zebrowski's colleague, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u132	Paul Zebravsky, "Ukrainian Platform", faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, is there any benefit in this budget resolution? Of course there is. It's on time. All right, dot. There are no more positives. Why? There is a concept of the development of a left-wing and right-centred society. Levocentric says that it is necessary to increase social costs, people who receive money go to market, buy products, and thus warm up the economy of Ukraine. In contrast, researchers say that there is a accumulation of financial resources, a rise in economics, an increase in the economy; a rise in the minimum wage and the introduction of a single tariff grid in full volume increases the income of the population. These are two concepts of this development. Did the budget resolution respond to any one concept? The first question is social standards. Friends, the minimum of living, you don't have to talk about substantial promotions. There is no need for a substantial increase in wages. There is no need for a substantial increase in pensions. Okay, maybe in principle, because the Party of Regions and the government is a party of big business, they're channeling financial resources into economic development? Maybe there are areas that they've defined as a tow horse that's going to pull Ukraine's economy out of the crisis? It's either small business or it's big business, some sector doesn't. The key direction is the fuel-energy complex, no more, no less. There's no money to be invested today, oil sprawling through the tree. There's the only sacred cow and it's called Euro-2012, which is covered with butter, and again with butter, and again with butter, because it's easy enough to get the money out of there. The budget resolution is a protocol for the purposes on which the Cabinet of Ministers will prepare the main financial document of Ukraine, on which the economy will live, and on which people, I beg your pardon, the slogan was "Ukraine for the People" should be reflected in this budget resolution and in this budget, which will be addressed for 2012. Dear friends, can this budget resolution be accepted? Of course, you can accept anything. But will this budget resolution and this budget respond to the key challenges facing society? No, it's not. You know, I thought by mistake that the Party of Regions and its partners would think that there were elections in 2012 and even though they would give people a donation before the elections, they wouldn't. So this budget resolution is underworked, it needs to be sent for work in order to actually respond to the challenges facing society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u133	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. The next one will be the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u134	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. I, my dear fellows, will, with your permission, dissuade him from this venerable forerunner in this rostrum. You know, maybe it doesn't take all the time, considering the elections, and we've got them all going on and on and on and on? I think it's those people who practice liberal thinking who obviously have to give up this, because any pre-election taxes will never make a normal, effective economic system. That's the first one. And the second. Once again as you pushed away, you saw one positive, and I saw more positive, to be honest. In fact, everyone has already talked about it, and that's true when within two months of the actual deadline, Daedline, there's a budget resolution, it's a positive. They say this is the second time in the history of an independent Ukraine, it seems that this is the first time in advance. It's always late. What are the positives, as I think? The first positive is defined as one of the main ideas or principles: the adaptation of Ukrainian tax legislation to the tax legislation of the European Union. Is that positive or not? I think it's clear. Because when we talk about European integration, somehow it's often dense, it's completely virtual. If the government, Minfin, has this desire to see, to adapt our tax system to all its disadvantages to the tax system of the European Union, let's put 5 points behind the old system or 12 now. One second. Again, I turn to those who think and are really serious economists. When is the budget deficit 2.5 percent on the basis of what's happening, including in European countries, where the budget goes to the 3rd, 4th, 5th? And you know, some countries that don't understand what a deficit is, and they live at 120, 130 billion from the European cash register, maybe that's a good thing? Maybe it's not populism, but it's really an economic approach. The second moment that I also think is a positive one. When it comes to increasing the weight of local budgets, what were we all talking about? And we're all saying that the ratio of what's left in the budgets and what's going to be transferred to the central level should be changed. Is this to be supported? Well, let's be honest, not in terms of opposition as such, but in terms of common sense, we need to support that position. And there's more. In the light of the big competitions over public finances and so on, I think the planned system of information and analysis "transparent budget" that will enable all citizens of Ukraine, individuals, legal persons to know clearly what is going on with the state budget, is a positive one. The project is, it's not strange to say, because the budget resolution is always being criticised, it's progressive enough. He can be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u135	Thank you. People's MP Caplienko, MP of Reforms for the Future. Alla Alexandrovska will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u136	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Dear colleagues, at the meeting of the Reforms for the Future faction, we have considered the draft Decision on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2012. You know, we found over a lot of positives, there's a negative, but the faction's decision to unanimously support this decision that was made in Parliament today, at the expense of the following factors. First. We've clearly seen that the 2012 Budget Policy Bill is completely aligned with the Ukraine Development Programme, which was approved last year for 4 years. The other one. It is based on a clear understanding and methodology of the project management, which provides an opportunity to build or build a base for Ukraine's development in the future. Speaking of being introduced at the right time or in the wrong time, I support the thesis of the last reporter, Mr. Zarubinski, that for the first time in the history of Ukraine it was introduced into such terms. Next. The 2012 Draft Basic Policy Guidelines are based on Ukraine's projected and programmed economic and social development documents, containing the following ones that really need to be addressed: the real GDP growth rate is 106.5 per cent, the consumer price index is 107.9 per cent, the average currency exchange rate and the dollar. The U.S. dollar's bracelets are 7.9 or 8 bucks. The other one. Maintaining a government deficit of 2.5 percent. You know, every year we talk about this number, and every year we break this limit volume. Over the years, you remember that there were 3.2, 3.5, 3. We're betting 2.5. God forbid we can make it through next year. The reduction in the share of the redistribution of the internal gross product through the consolidated budget is compared to 28.7 percent in 2011. Improving government debt management to further reduce the volume to an economically safe level. I'll remind you that there's not more than 30 percent of the total gross domestic product in this project. Of course, there is a positive effect on the growth of local budgets. As for the negative. It is not clear what will be the situation in the fuel market. You can see that from September 1, this year, the fuel level has risen from $270 to $330 per tonne. In view of this, we do not understand how it will be decided next year. The other one. The subsistence minimum, which is the basis for forming a social component, has not been reviewed by this bill, although a number of bills are in Parliament. In spite of that, the MP's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u137	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u138	will support this decision and will give 20 votes for us to have an approved document – the Decision on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u139	Thank you. Only I would ask a respected colleague, a respected colleague to follow regulations, not a faction, but a group. And hopefully after 2012, after the elections, you'll have a faction. Please, Alla Alexandrovska, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Here one speaker asked a rhetorical question whether the concept of the document was left centred or liberal or centred, and said that left centred was when social standards were high. And that's the subtext when it's taken, it's all shared, and it's all good. That's not right. The centre-left concept of communists in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a strong government management of the economy, which is based on direct management of the basic sectors of the economy; these are high social standards that can only be done on this basis. It is this concept that can give impetus to the development of Ukraine's economy and, most importantly, ensure consistent development and guarantee from, perhaps, some crises. Could it be said that this document is in line with such a concept? Nope. The Communist faction made comments and made proposals. Unfortunately, they are not all accounted for. And I would like to address very serious issues. For example, this paper proposes that the next problem will be solved in the drafting of the Gosbudget Act: this is to “balance the financial situation of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine” and its subsidiaries and companies without budgeting.” It was only yesterday that we supported the bill on direct state funding related to the problems faced by the oil and gas industry. Why are we today hiding the heads of the sand and pretending to do so without direct public administration? Of course not. We were talking about that these positions need to be corrected. As you can see, they didn't listen to us. It is proposed to address the issue of the planned introduction of housing and utility tariffs to an economically sound level. Again, we talked yesterday about the fact that it's not possible without us from Gosbudget getting gas prices. Therefore, we, the Communists, will not vote in favour of this document unless two of our serious proposals, two of our positions, are taken into account: we believe that it will be enough to bore the heads of people and not allow them to take advantage of their contributions. We demand that the State Budget Act, next year, provide for at least 1 billion fines to be paid for underexpenditures. How many years can it take to numb people's heads, promise to solve the problem of not solving it? We demand that the payment of the pension allowance for children of war be doubled, at least twice. We understand that we cannot fully address this problem, but two times in 2012, this amount is much stronger for our budget. If these proposals are not taken into account, we will not vote in favour of this document, for which I have already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u141	The National Deputy Korge is transferring the right to speak to Vladimir Bondarenko, the "BUT" faction. Then there will be John Kirilenko's performance. Is that how you pass Bondarenko? Please, Vladimir Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u142	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Reform and Order Party. When I read this document, I developed such mixed feelings, surrealism, or some fantasy that I read. Let's still look at these things with sober eyes. First of all, this document, as someone says, was filed a little earlier than it might have been, but it's not filed in time. According to article 33, part 3, of the budget code, it was due by April 1. According to Part 4 of this article 33, he had to strike a balance between the local budgets and the central budget, which was not done. But there are more important things, when I read the priorities that are defined here by their five, or the main directions of the budgetary process, here it is written, the direction of financial, tax policies to build an effective state. We've already heard a lot of calls before the election as we increase to 70 percent of the students in colleges. As it will be increased in the first year of the new government's work, twice the salary and so forth. It's all about surrealism and the fantasy of new power. With regard to this item, financial direction and assistance, where does it go? To cover the private loans taken by the Deputy Prime Minister there, the first and chief of one of the eastern areas, 200 out of the millions. This financial assistance is channelled to private enterprises of individuals, including people in this room. Covering or writing down 20 with a surplus yesterday, billions of dollars to energy companies belonging to the Cologne, Ahmetov, Firtash and other members of the Party of Regions, cheating. People pay for all the energy, they collect all the money, they don't transfer it to the State Budget, and you wrote it down yesterday. Is that an effective state policy? Or spending tens of billions of dollars on Euro. Is that an effective state policy? 11 billion more in debt last year. Is that an effective policy? Or providing for growth, second point, the standard of living of citizens. And look at the prices, look at the tariffs, look at the prices of the products and the oil products, and you'll see where this level goes up. This is the second priority of this document. Third. The preservation and acceleration of human development. But you'll excuse me, in Dnipropetrovska, yesterday's statistics, divorce tripled, because men lose their jobs, sleep and divorce their wives, shut down rural schools, farm paws, this increase in human development, by 13 percent increased unemployment last year. The fourth point, creating favourable conditions for business, has closed down 400,000 small and medium-sized enterprises that are favourable. So this lie is complete, as it used to be, this document needs to be thrown out and let the government sit down, maybe in a new set, and come up with something more real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u143	John Kirilenko gives the voice, the right to speak to Nicholas Tomenko. Please. Ruslan Knazevich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the topic that was discussed yesterday at the President's meeting on the humanitarian field of education, health, and, I would say, the key values that the country holds. What's been bothering me? I've heard here that our budget problem is that we have too many teachers and doctors per capita. I think, my friends, our problem is that we have too much stupidity, haughtiness and per capita corruption, we have too many per capita militias, taxes, per capita firefighters, not too many teachers and doctors. And the tragedy is that today's reform or reform is reducing educational and medical institutions, and you go to the village and the city, and nobody says it's for the quality of education and health care. They say the Ministry of Finance doesn't provide money, and we can't finance a hospital or a maternity home or a sanatorium or a school, and we have to shut it down. It's not reform. There's no money. So I’m surprised that in the framework of fiscal policy, I don’t understand the logic of financing the education and health system. I looked, here's one of our living classics, the minister of education, who learned how to earn money, who's going to make money with preschoolers, said when the schools closed. I'll tell you that the biggest school we've had closed 393 in the years 2009 and 2010 and six months is the current minister and the previous minister. Before that, there were 245 and 203. But this is a small thing, compared to what's announced to close 10 percent, it's 2,000 schools. I have a question for you. I understand that children are few, what will thousands of teachers do? I have a question, what are we going to do with these schools? Are we going to sell those classrooms? Now, what are we going to do with thousands of teachers, medics, and those houses in the rural area that you want to unite and make the district? Thank God that educational and hospital districts have been invented, even though the zones have not been invented. And I hear the minister say, "Good luck, you're going to be in the district now, and you're going to be going 100-200 kilometers to get quality education and quality medicine. ".. And who's outside the county, outside the county center, what's he gonna do? Therefore, my dear colleagues, I believe that there is no education, no health care, no physical culture, and no sports. I have a question. How much of the football budget are we gonna support? We'll soon be in the village playing legionnaires for the country team and budgeting. We have 50 percent of young people who are sick. Plan at least one sports course, plan to finance the recovery system. How much can you spend billions of dollars on football? Now I have a question, who gave the President and the government the right to say that we're going to have the 2022 Winter Olympics and spend billions? Did you ask the people? The people want a kurling, a kurling room from the budget? To hold the Olympics, 90 percent of the people need to support it. And you buried tens of billions in Euro, you want to bury hundreds of billions of Olympics. Friends, money has to be invested in Ukrainian people, Ukrainian education, the Ukrainian economy, and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u145	Ruslan Knyazevich is transferring the right to speak to Stanislav Arzvetin, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladislav Lukyanov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u146	Dear National Deputies, there is a very important chapter missing in the main directions: the "Relationship between the National Bank and the Cabinet of Ministers" section, which should determine the instruments and joint actions of these two State institutions. We realize that only these two government agencies should fill real resources with programs. Today, the monetary and credit policies of the National Bank and fiscal policies of the government are at a stage of disagreement and conflict. This is more likely to lead, not to economic growth, but to conservation of existing problems. We have a situation in a society that doesn't satisfy anyone: neither the poor, who barely make ends meet, nor the rich, who feel very comfortable and reliable in Ukraine. All the while hiding their capital, they are in a constant struggle for power, realizing that it is only in this way that they can preserve their wealth. The people of the Middle Ages no longer believe in any promises or reforms or politicians or officials or high-ranking government officials. There was a paradox. This social situation does not satisfy anyone, and the authorities have no intention of creating long-term changes in the country because they are carrying out medium-term socio-economic reforms. We continue to live one day, and more precisely, on the budget of one year. It is in the section "The relationship between the NBA and the government" that the fundamental principles of the interaction between monetary and fiscal relations of the country in the development of the real economy sector should be defined, and the impact of these two policies on the country's manufacturing processes. The definition of the mechanisms for legalizing the shadow money not obtained by criminal means and their return from abroad to Ukraine's legal economy should be a separate policy. These are tens of billions of dollars that have become a credit resource to neighboring countries. The policy of restoring the population's confidence in the national monetary unit of money, confidence in financial institutions and the return to economic circulation of about 400-450 billion Ukrainian money in our citizens in Ukraine should be a separate policy. By the way, it's the only source that can stop the galloping increase in the external debt of the state. The actions of the National Bank and the government today do not depend on the need to address the urgent Ukrainian key socio-economic needs of the State, but rather on the policies of the International Monetary Fund, the policies of the World Bank, more precisely, their dollar tranches. I think we need to put a stop to politics, to fiscal policy, when from the economy, that is, from the real sector, more than 100 billion credit resources are diverted from the budget deficit. That's what I need.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u147	Yes, dear colleagues, this is the last performance, Vladislav Lukyanov, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Then it's the secretary of finance's closing statement, and we'll move on to making a decision. Invite the deputies to the session room. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u148	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! I want to start by analyzing the foundations on which the budget resolution was developed. And we remember very well how fervently in this room we discussed the adoption of the Codex Budget. Back then, we referred to dozens of positive factors that were in favor of this document. And now we're starting to get the first results. Are we proud of these achievements? Of course, they need to be proud, but even more, much more needs to be done. What we've achieved is we've managed to break the situation that's left over, from a situation of collapse to a situation of stability and economic recovery in the state. And this is a major achievement. Of course, we're going to get the main results during this, over the next and over many years, because we're taking the course of the Ukrainian economy into the path of continuous growth. This is the main point. Taxes are declining, reports are declining, business systems are simplified, five - year vacations are introduced for income tax for small and medium - size businesses. All of these factors have a positive impact on the growth of the economy. What about the indicators that we are currently considering? This is an increase in gross national product to a level of one and a half trillion dollars, this is a very ambitious and high target for the Ukrainian economy. And it is a pleasure that our government accepts such courageous tasks and more that it is able to carry them out. This is a very important indicator that allows small, medium-sized businesses to invest boldly and to develop their businesses, to grow negotiable assets, and to make additional profits. The fact that most entrepreneurs in the real sector have responded is confirmed by the actual results of industrial growth. And this growth is not on price scale, this growth in real production growth is confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u149	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u150	This is confirmed by the increase in freight transport, which is what we see, the increase in production, the growth rate that is clearly correlated, clearly linked to growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u151	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we must then make a separate decision, put to the vote. Let's not break the rules. Dear colleagues! The closing statement is the Minister of Finance. Please. Invite the national deputies to the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u152	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The main directions of budgetary policy for 2012 that are under consideration today are the common product of the government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These directions reflect the strategic orientations of our nation’s development. As a result of the joint constructive work, we have a document that is the conceptual basis for the next year's budget development and the construction of a new model for the development of the domestic economy on an innovative basis. Allow me to thank all the national deputies for their cooperation and constructive suggestions. I assure you all that all your proposals will be carefully worked out and taken into account in the development of the 2012 State Budget Project. I am asking for support for the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2012, which was introduced by the national MP Barranov from the Committee on Budgets and adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u153	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Rules and the Budget Code, the Committee, to which the matter of the budget belongs, generalises proposals that have come from the National Deputies and prepares a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the approval or acceptance of the main directions of budgetary policy for the following fiscal year. The committee did this work. Now, one minute. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should adopt a decree on the approval or acceptance of the basic directions of budgetary policy for the following financial year no later than 1 June of the previous year, which precedes the budgetary year. For reasons of vote? Please, if it's from the faction on the basis of the vote. Valentin Matviev. If there are other factions, let me know.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u154	Dear Fedor Alexiovich! As you know, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of our faction, the factions of the Communists, sent their proposals to the Committee on Budget Affairs, as it was determined, on the draft Decision on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for the following year. Sadly, they were practically out of the picture. So we have two principles of proposals that Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovska spoke about in her statement on behalf of the faction. This is about predicting in the main directions for the next year of budgetary policy issues related to the payment of undervalued savings of citizens; and the solution, in part, to the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of Children of War. She called those numbers I'd like to hear from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u155	Thank you, of course. Yes, savings and children of war. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", then Sergey Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I would like, first of all, to point out what was wrong today, that the draft of the basic policies of budgetary policy is timely. It is presented with a violation of the terms defined in part three of article 33 of the Codex Budget, for there is no later than April 1st and then a three - day deadline for the Supreme Council. That's the first one. The other one. We're proposing that this project be worked out in such a way that it's accepted in two stages, the adoption was only on the first reading. And then add and insert the minimum wage, and the minimum wage. And so it's still written when the money is paid and how the money will be paid for the so-called children of war, now, I remind you, over a million 30,000 lawsuits that Azarov is rejecting today, says there are no funds that are not budgeted. They must be predicted and returned to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u157	Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u158	Vladimir Mikhailovich, in order for our faction to be able to determine by vote on the matter, please pass on the word to Vladislav Lukyanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u159	Do you take the floor, Vladislav Lukyanov? No, it's not. He's refusing your offer. Please determine which one of you is Sulkovsky and Dry. Jaroslav Suhi, said the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u160	Fedor Alexiyovich, I have a request. Please note, please, whether this problem Mr. Carmazin was talking about is the children of war to decide in the following way: to compare the status of children of war to those of war because we drove ourselves artificially by this imperfect law, which he had already mentioned and sat in this place where Carmazin, Valérie Assadchev, was going to end with what? That's the first question. And the second. Still, is there going to be a change in the public budget of preferences from a poly-energy complex to the basic sectors of the national economy, i.e. state investment in metallurgy, machine building, aircraft building, military-industrial complex and agri-industrial complex? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u161	Dear national deputies, we either approve of the Basic Directions, or we will accept them as known, and then we will take into account the proposals that we have been talking about. We do not have first, second, and third readings there. We have two decisions: either we approve or we make known. So given that we're protocolly preparing the government's commission to save citizens, the children of war, and the relative minimum wage that we've been given, it's going to be an additional commission from the Cabinet of Ministers. Now I'm betting. Just a minute. Please, Feder Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u162	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I want to give a brief answer to the questions that have been asked. Regarding the first issue that was raised, it is a matter of savings. I want to draw your attention, on page 12 of the Basic Principles, this is precisely the question of granting compensation to Ukrainian citizens for the loss of savings. That's where it's supposed to be, and when we develop the project, we'll regulate it. It's about the children of war. We're also going to settle it, and now we're thinking about how we're going to settle this. So all the suggestions you make are going to be settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in line with the Committee and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's 2012 draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy. [[Registration number 8348-d]] Please vote on the proposal to approve the 2012 Main Directions of Budget Policy. [[12:26:14]] For 263 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 186, "BUT – "Patkaščina" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 7. Dear People's Deputies, according to yesterday's decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will now hear from you the information of the Attorney-General's Office on the conditions of custody of the former Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenka. The Supreme Council of Ukraine will be represented by the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Prisko Anatoli Grigorovich. In accordance with article 240 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the following procedure is envisaged: information from the Attorney General’s Office for up to 20 minutes and questions, and answers to them for up to 20 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u164	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Attorney General’s Office has repeatedly pointed out the circumstances of the crimes, which have been charged by the former Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko. Let me briefly remind you that the criminal case against him and his coworker, Leonid Pritlik, was violated on October 15, 2010. As a result of the investigation by the authorities of the pretrial investigation, Lucenko is accused of possession of foreign property on a particularly large scale by abuse of a service position under a previous conspiracy by a group of persons, by excess of authority and by official authority, causing severe consequences and abuse of authority by a law enforcement officer. The precautionary action of the two defendants was selected on November 5th in the form of a non-refoulement subscription. The completion of the trial was announced on December 13, last year, and the requirements of article 218 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure were met. Criminal and procedural legislation provides for clearly defined rights and duties of the parties to the process, both the investigator and the accused and its defenders. Within the limits of the mandate given, the investigator drew up a schedule to familiarize the defendant Lucenko with the material of the criminal case. However, the latter repeatedly violated it. At the same time, the law is one for all, so it's all equal before the law: whether it's the former minister or the current minister or the national deputy. We must ensure that the laws adopted in this room are enforced. Taking into account the gravity of the crime, the systematic failure to challenge the investigator, taking into account Lucenka’s improper conduct, the Pecher District Court’s decision of December 27, 2010 chose a precautionary measure — keeping him in custody. The Court of Appeal of Kyiv at the time of the investigation extended the period of detention until May 26 of this year. That is the legal basis for his being in the world today. The issue of lawfulness in the introduction of pretrial investigation into the criminal case was discussed by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the participation of law enforcement officials, the Penitentiary Service, the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, representatives of civil rights organizations. Among other things, it was the subject of an expanded meeting of the General Prosecutor's College on 29 December 2010 and an operational meeting of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on 15 March this year. At present, the accused Lucenko has completed an examination of the material of the criminal case. However, his supporters: Fomin, Orlov and Lucenko Irina, as well as the defendant's advocate, did not fully understand the case. On May 6, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine received a statement of refusal to consult material in connection with the disagreement over the last measure of precaution. At the same time, in order to produce the relevant procedural documents, the investigators have not yet arrived and have not signed the relevant protocols. It is not possible to resolve the issue of bringing the matter to court by delaying knowledge of the material. On the basis of article 218 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Pecher District Court of Kiev, on 29 April, on the basis of an inquiry, passed a decision on the limitation of time to inform the defence attorneys of Yuri Lucenka about the criminal proceedings until 16 May. At the same time, on the evening of April 28, Lucenko made an official written application to announce his hunger on April 22. In accordance with the requirements of law in force, an act of refusal to eat was filed on April 29 by the authorities of the investigative isolate. Since then, Lucenko has been under constant supervision by doctors of the medical section of Kiev’s CISA and the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine. As a result of the commission’s examination of his health, appropriate guidance was provided and preventive explanatory discussions were conducted on the health of the person who was hungry and the medical examination was carried out. Lucenko also clarified the requirements of legislation regarding the conditions of maintenance and the order of compulsory feeding for those who refuse to eat. He was invited to use a nutritious mixture for hungry people prepared in an orderly manner and was given appropriate treatment. Lucenka agreed that supportive therapy was also provided. After the preventive interview, imprisoned between 1 May and 4 May of the current year, including on a voluntary basis, he used the food mixture on his own every day in the presence of the staff. In doing so, he was provided with medical assistance through the introduction of glucose and vitamins. However, on May 4, Lucenko officially wrote to the management of the Kyiv Insulator for refusing to use the nutritious mixture itself, that is, to date, 8 days of famine. He continued to be under the constant supervision of the medical staff of the Kyiv SSO and the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine. According to medical records and analyses, Lucenko did not need or require compulsory feeding. In connection with the famine, Lucenka was left in a three - room cell, evicting two prisoners, as provided for by valid legislation. At the direction of the Attorney General of Ukraine, on May 6, I personally visited the Kyiv Detention Unit, where the accused Yuri Lucenko is being held. Along with me were the Commissioner for Human Rights, Nina Karpachov, Acting Minister of Health Alexander Anishchenko, Head of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine, Alexander Lisickov, who served as Prosecutor of Kiev’s City, Dmitry Lupeko, and others. At the initiative of the General Prosecutor’s Office, physicians of the higher category of health care institutions of the Ministry of Health, such as the executive department of allergy and rheumatology, the head of the cardiology department, and the doctor of the clinical endocrinology of the scientific practice centre, were examined by him. During the survey, Yuri Lucenko claimed that he had no claim to staff, investigators, doctors, or detention. During the initiative of the Ukrainian Attorney General’s Office on May 8, the medical section of the Kyiv Insulator carried out a commission review of Lucenk by doctors of medical sciences at the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. As a result, it was concluded that his health was satisfactory. According to the Kyiv Department of Investigation, on May 10, an investigative officer in the particularly important cases of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine initiated a medical examination of Lucenko under the conditions of one of the medical authorities. He is currently in the city’s hospital of emergency medical care in Kiev, where he was examined by a cardiologist, a neurologist, an endocrinologist with appropriate clinical, medical examinations. As a result, Lucenka’s health has been assessed as an average of the problems caused by the onset of hunger. In doing so, his vital organs are not affected. Yesterday, deputy attorney general of Ukraine and prosecutor of Kiev Melnik Anatoly Stepanovich personally checked the conditions of keeping Lucenk in a medical institution. There were no requests for assistance when communicating with the latter in the application and in the reports on the conditions of detention. On the question of health, he stated that he felt as did any person who did not eat for a long time. At the same time, he noted that he did not want the media to report on his condition. The head doctor of the facility, who was present during the inspection, assured Lucenka of qualified medical care. Lucenka is also provided with reading books and is installed in a television room. The issue of compliance with the law while it is being kept in custody remains under constant control by the prosecutor’s authorities. Honorable national MPs, the announcement of hunger by Lucenko and those who supported him in hunger, are nothing more than a carefully thought - out pressure on the prosecution, the court, and the public to avoid criminal responsibility and influence on the judiciary. In any democratic rule of law, such means are illegal and unacceptable. In fact, some 100 prisoners were reported hungry in detention centres and detention facilities last year. Last year, some 100 prisoners were reported starving, as was the case in previous years. The main reasons for the declaration of hunger are the disagreement with the court’s decision to take a stand and with the verdicts handed down. Once before, no measures have been taken against those who have declared hunger, no serious consequences have been imposed on them. As a result of hunger, the precautionary measure has not changed. The pre-trial authorities act solely within the framework of criminal and procedural legislation, which has been repeatedly confirmed by court decisions in the case, in particular with regard to the selection of precautionary measures and the extension of periods of custody. The court also agreed with the arguments of the investigation regarding the deliberate delay by the defendants of the accused in reviewing the material of the case, violating the Ukrainian Law on Lawyery and the Code of Law on Legal Ethics in the provision of legal aid. At the stage of the pretrial investigation, all possible steps have been taken to fully, objectively, comprehensively examine the evidence in the case and to ensure the legality of its investigation. In the near future, a criminal case will be brought before a court for consideration in substance. The court will decide whether Lucenka is guilty or not. In particular, I would like to point out that this question relates to the exclusive competence of the judiciary, not to the comments of representatives of the political forces and interested persons. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to sign up for a question, 20 minutes. All right, we're doing a recording. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yes, Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u166	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine. Dear Mr. Reporter! I understand from your performance that Lucenka you're not going to let go, as a precautionary measure, you're not going to change and you're going to get it. I've been to a lot of court hearings in his case, personally. And the last session had already made it clear that all the criminal material that Lucenko had read, his health was getting worse, all the requirements that he was being investigated were being fulfilled. Nevertheless, the prosecutor's office, directly in court, demands that the precautionary measure of being under arrest be continued. Now you've already led him to be in the hospital. Next, what is the course of this matter that you see? Are you going to make him stay in the hospital long enough? Or you could say that eight times, in the total number of 150 national deputies, took him on notice, wrote the appropriate references. And you're going to change the measure of precaution, and you're going to give him the opportunity to protect his honour on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u167	Dear People's Deputies! I was just talking about it in my speech, and I'll remind you again. That the question of choosing a Precautionary Lucenka is decided by the court and will remain in custody until May 26 of this year. Then the question of choosing this or another measure of precaution will be settled in the order established by law. This question relates to the exclusive jurisdiction of the court. The court will decide that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u168	Yes. Yuri Gnatkevitch, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u169	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to tell you, Mr. Deputy Attorney General, that the vast majority of people don't believe in the Attorney General's Office that Lucenka wants to be put in jail for artificially raising his pension and loudly marking the day of the police. We have recently seen the president loudly marking his inauguration, and no one knows what kind of money it is. One of them told me that it was just a formal reason, not a reason. And the reason is that he and Timoshenko want to put in jail a large criminal capital that was created and raised after the theft of the illegal possession of formerly socialist property by a group of people now called oligarchs. It was the oligarhat who drove Yuri Lucenka to play and wants to push Yulia Timoshenko to finally solve the issue of what is not the legality of the privatization of 1994 and 2004. And by the way, that's also true.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u170	The Honourable National MP, according to the current legislation of Ukraine, is the only body that determines the guilt or innocence of one person or another is the court. The only thing the prosecution wants in this case is to finish quickly so that the defendant's defenders can finish their examination of the material of the case and this case will be referred to a court that will evaluate the evidence collected and decide essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u171	Yes, National Deputy Tolstenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u172	Thank you. Please tell us that worldwide the tactics of the announcement of hunger are well - known with a view to attracting social attention. The well - known Lviv Judge Zvarič was starving in protest. Why should the law enforcement authorities please him in Lucenka’s case?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u173	Thank you. Thank you. I have to say that this practice is really common. And I called the figures that last year about 100 prisoners declared hunger, demanding and thus trying to protect themselves. In this case, the prosecutor’s office must ensure compliance with the law on these persons. They have the right to do this, it's their right to defend themselves. As far as Lucenka is concerned, so is his right. He has the right to eat, he has the right to use the mixture, he has the right to refuse to use it at all. But the law has to be achieved, and we view it as pressure on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u174	Ruslan Knazevitch, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u175	Please give Karpuk my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u176	Vladimir Karpuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u177	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". I want to ask you not as many questions as the doctors who examined him when he was in the hospital. Because I had been called as a doctor, it was surprising to be appraised as satisfactory or as stable. That's the term "stable state" medicine doesn't know. And I want to remind you, I was also a doctor when I was working, and I know what kind of pressure doctors give in to the diagnosis that the prosecution needs. And I want to remind you of the example of the famous Russian doctor of German origin, Fedor Haaz, who also worked in the penitentiary system, and on his tombstone, it says, "Hurry to do good." Because these things are never forgotten. And when the system wants to show that it's stronger, when it tries to kill everything, all human feelings, the only protest, like any normal person, I support Yuri Vitaliovich, is the protest against.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u178	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u179	I mean, in order to avoid such accusations, we went to organize medical examinations and treatments for Lucenka not only by doctors of the penitentiary system but also by doctors of the Ministry of Health, i.e. by civilians. As a result, there were several such committees, and they were made up of different people. I believe that they have made an objective assessment of the condition, appropriate recommendations for the maintenance of Lucenka’s health.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u180	National Deputy Ariev, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u181	Vladimir Ariev I want to tell the entire Attorney General: God sees everything. And if you can buy a cave trial or a Kiev appeals court, you will not be able to buy God’s judgment. Remember that. I'm not talking about the illegal violation of a criminal case, sewn up with white threads, of an illegal arrest because a person doesn't confess to his guilt. But I have a question for you. Tell us again why you're telling us you're lying. And why Lucenck is not allowed a lawyer if the Criminal Procedure Code clearly states that a lawyer has the right to have access to his lawyer at any time. He's not allowed to go to Lucenk today. Other questions. Where does the Code of Criminal Procedure state that Lucenko, the defendant, should be in prison for the actions of his lawyers who failed to complete a criminal case? Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u182	I want to say, first of all, the patrons of Lucenka, his wife and two defenders are given the opportunity to visit him at any time and protect his interests. This time. [[B in m in s a l in]] So from this point of view, I gave objective information. The other one. With regard to Lucenka's guilt or not, it will be decided by a court which has and is empowered to do so. Only the court will say whether he's guilty or not guilty. [[B in m in s a l in]] So the precautionary measure, the custody, is chosen by a court that has exclusive competence to do so. There's a court decision that no one has overturned. And on the basis of that decision, he is now legally based in places where he is deprived of his will. So this period is set until May 26th. After May 26, the matter will be brought before the court if the case is brought before a court.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u183	Yes, Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u184	The subject of hunger is not new. And you've really called the figure that about 100 people are starving to protest. And when Lucenko was the minister of the interior affairs of Ukraine, he received daily information, including indications of who was hungry and what requirements were made. But not once did the minister of the interior of Lucenko, despite his mother’s similarly weeping, bring help, ask questions about the change in the protective measure of punishment, and so forth. But why didn't he do it? Because he acted by law. And he certainly followed the letter and the spirit of the law. And we need to do the same today for the prosecution to act by law. To urge Lucenko to stop starving because it is harmful to his health. And as fast as possible, but not in violation of criminal procedure law to go to court. And there's the answer to all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u185	I want to say, really, the court-appointed deadline to familiarize defenders with the material of the case, it ends on May 16th. The investigator will then be given the right to refer the case to the prosecutor for confirmation of the indictment and to refer the case to the court for consideration in substance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u186	Pavel Žebrovsky, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u187	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u188	Jaroslav Kenzior, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u189	Dear Deputy Attorney General! I want you to explain one interesting thing to me. You probably know that in Lviv, in April months, a district appeals court released members of the Suska gang, who terrorized Ukraine, Lviv and Kiev, including. The closets were released, followed by dozens of killings. Please tell me, can we, as it were, combine the blame and, as it were, the danger of Lucenka? And these closets, which are proven to be guilty? Why, the reaction of the Attorney General’s Office, the hope of Judge Jaremenko and the Intercession, which is not the first time, as it were, is fabricated, is released. What does the Attorney General do? Why does it exist?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u190	The Office of the Attorney-General performs the functions laid down by law. They are clearly defined in the Constitution and in the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act. With regard to the response to the fact that you said in Lviv, the prosecutor's office has asked questions about the responsibility of these judges, their dismissal from positions, and this issue will be resolved. The measure of precaution against a person, a precautionary measure of keeping in custody, is solely within the jurisdiction of the investigator and the court. The court decides on the basis of the fact that a preliminary ruling has been submitted to the investigators regarding the selection of a precautionary measure. If the investigator considers such grounds to be so, he applies himself to a court that decides whether or not to select a person, taking into account his crime and other circumstances, a precautionary measure of keeping him in custody.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u191	Ivan Kirilenko is referring the right to raise the question of Vladimir Yavorowski, the faction "BUT – "Fatherhood".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u192	When you went up to the rostrum, I'll tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u193	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u194	When you got up. When you went up to the rostrum, frankly, I felt sorry for you at first, because you're just, like, a screw in this horrible, creepy, anti-law system that is in Ukraine today. But after listening to you, I don't feel sorry for you anymore. The Ukrainian people heard you today. I think you're aware of this, everyone else is hiding behind your back. You told us today that Lucenko is actually at the resort: he was created with comfortable conditions – he's the only one in the cell; he turns out they're doing it, they want him to take vitamins; he's getting TV. Oh, my God! Well, you should be jealous. I have a specific question for you. You said it all on the air. If anything happens to Lucenk, tipping my tongue, you're ready to sit on the bench of defendants, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u195	So, first of all, I gave you objective information based on the materials of the prosecutor's tests, medical records, the materials of the insulator -- that's objective information. As for Lucenka, he willingly chose this course. He has a choice, he has a choice, and he has a choice. () [[B in m in s a l in]] And we have no right to violate that choice. There is a choice to use food, there is a choice to use a mixture, there is a choice to refuse. Sadly, he chose a choice that would endanger his health. We're doing everything we can to protect him. () [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't know why I have to sit on the jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u196	Mankovsky's handing over the right to question Michael Chechtev, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u197	Dear Anatoly Grigoryevich, thank you for your objective information. You've taken the right line of conduct. You're not trying to like either the left or the right side of the hall, you're telling the truth. Thank you for continuing to tell the truth, whatever it is. Now on the question. You know, in a democratic state, those who are in power always work; those who are in opposition promise and lie, lie and promise, promise and lie. I have a question. Many of today's criminal cases are covered by political debris and political debris, both by political injury and by political scheming. Now, if you're abstracting yourself from a political crow, from political debris, from a political sheloha, from a political crackdown, from a political lie, then you've talked purely objectively, but once again, because they're listening to us on the radio, you can also tell the truth again. What is the reason for Lucenko’s prolonged stay in SIZO? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u198	A precautionary measure of keeping him in custody is chosen according to the crime he has committed, taking into account all circumstances of the case, chosen by the court as a precautionary measure, and the court has the power to decide the matter, only by the court of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u199	Oleg Zarubinski. Please, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u200	Please give me your word, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Catherine Vaszczuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u201	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u202	Dear Anatoly Grigorovich, not a lawyer, please explain. If Lucenka's lawyers are now familiar with the case, as you said, to 16 numbers. Can the investigator or the prosecutor choose another tool than to keep him in SIZO? Whether or not he can be assigned to a nondeparture contract, or if he can be released to a court of law, at least to the extent that he can be released.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u203	So the question lies solely in the competence of the investigator, who is a procedurally independent person, and of the court. If that happens, then this question must be decided by the investigator in conjunction with the court. The following said at the present time when I was preparing to go to the Supreme Council, he said that there was no reason for the change of the precautionary action of Lucenka at this time. However, once the case is brought before the court, the court will certainly consider the matter and the one responsible will consider the matter of the precautionary measure regarding Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u204	Yes, Sergey Vlasenko, BUT faction, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u205	Chago's two minutes away.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u206	Who, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u207	Chago's two minutes away.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u208	Eugene Chago, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u209	Your Honor, I'm here. I want to look you in the eye when I ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u210	Just a minute. Sergey Vlasenko, he's also told by Shago, so he'll be asking questions for two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u211	But if you don't mind, you can throw me a zero, because it's been 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u212	Take it off. First.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u213	Thank you. Mr. Reporter, I want to see your eyes when you answer my question. First, explain, please, what were the reasons for applying the precautionary measure to Lucenk at all. According to the Criminal Procedure Act, there are only three of these grounds: the first is when a person can escape an investigation. That's the first one. The second is when a person influences the investigation. That's two. And the third is when a person continues to commit an act of crime. Lucenka is accused of crimes in the role of minister of the interior. If you don't know, he's been a minister of the interior for a year and a half. I'll officially inform you of that. So what reason did you use to even apply any precaution to him? That's the first question. Question two. When precautionary measures were applied to Lucenka, the previous investigation was completed. How could he have affected an investigation that had already been completed? Third moment. At the stage of the examination of the case's materials, the investigating judge, without any court, do not mislead the members of the Supreme Council and Ukrainian society, make the decision himself, as the decision was made in other persons, at the stage of the examination of the case, the investigating officer himself made the decision and changed it, despite the fact that there was a court decision on keeping the watch, the investigating officer decided that it was possible to change the signature of the non-departure. Why isn't that happening on Lucenka? Lucenko's not avoiding an investigation. Lucenko is ready to contribute to the investigation. Lucenko signed all the necessary documents, even though you illegally demanded it. Lucenko cannot continue to serve as Minister of the Interior because he is not. Why was Lucenka confined to freedom? Don't refer to the court. The court considered the application of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. The court didn't suck it out of its finger, the court was looking at your thoughts. The court, believe me, found no basis. I've been with my fellow MPs during these court hearings, and I've seen the eyes of that judge, so I want to look into yours. Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u214	Actually, you answered your own question. [[B in m in s a l in]] The investigator’s arguments were presented in court. The court considered the submission, assessed the arguments, and decided on a precautionary measure. [[B in m in s a l in]] The court’s decision remained in force, and no one canceled it, and it is in effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u215	Mikhail Kosov, last question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u216	The reason for the arrest and the discovery of a criminal case against Lucenko is what you call general possession of foreign property. And yet it would be interesting for those who listen to us to know, and what kind of a "little stranger" Lucenko possessed. This is the second time I've been listening to a representative of today's law enforcement agencies, and I'm catching myself thinking that you're completely misinformationing society and telling lies. Lucenko got to know the whole thing. Lucenko is in a difficult condition. So there is absolutely no reason, except for political revenge, to keep him in the condition you keep him in. That you can answer that question, especially the first part of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u217	I understand your question. I can answer that. The case is now closed. The only delay in getting to know the material of the case. In a criminal case, all evidence has been gathered, an assessment of this evidence will be given in court. The case will soon be referred to a court that will review and evaluate all the evidence and determine Lucenka’s guilt or innocence.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u218	Thank you, Anatoly Grigorovich. Time's up. Have a seat. Thank you. Honorable National MPs. Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, we must now, at 1:00, move on to the national MPs' speeches, one minute! - in the "Variance" section, but we have two factions who have requested a recess to hold consultations. We can announce a recess for 30 minutes, then 30 minutes, just the mother, you know, for the MPs. So let's do it this way, dear colleagues. I'll explain to my colleague Ariev: 13 o'clock is "Rizzne" with us. Or we can walk for half an hour after that. Dear colleagues, what's my break? Let's put it this way: sign up for the performance now. I think you'll be speaking in the process of discussion, and that's it. And say everything you want to know. I'm asking you to sign up for the performance. Please record the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. It's a strange faction of the Party of Regions. Next up will be the helmet. Is that how it is? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u219	Please hand over to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u220	People's MP, please. And instead of who else? Ah, Zablock and Wonderful we're joining up for six minutes, please. Orestes Mutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u221	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. Dear Ternopolians! Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic identified land reform as a priority in 2011. Because, as the head of state pointed out, thanks to God, we have the most favorable conditions for farming, but we cannot give people the opportunity to handle the land effectively. Farmers have no decent income, land resources are being stolen. It was for the orange authorities that the shadowy privatisation and use of land in Ternopolska was achieved, and the agrarians were rewarded with the names of the heroes of Ukraine, whose car was the sugar, whose car was the grain. One of these heroes controls about half of the Earth of Ternopolish is the owner of the agrohholding "Mria" John Guth. Its activities destroy the agricultural sector of the region as well as the economy in general. Just think, 80 percent of the budget that about one and a half billion dollars was spent by this poor hero on about a billion government funds. The result of farming on some lands is 7-8 centrifuges from a hectare of grains and 150 sugar beet trees, in the 19th century, when the sickle was collected more and more, even though there was no farm administration in our area at the time, nor was the head of Homa. Of course, the owner is interested in just a bunch of land for a penny, and all the financial affairs associated with it are involved, and the peasants receive a penny for renting the land. By owning six sugar factories, agroholding tripled the production and tax revenues. Traditionally, the sugar industry has become a bankrupt area, and the directors of the sugar plant have been playing the role of land speculators, offering the heads of the selrad money to help defraud peasants. It's a shame that in 2010 the top 200 people in Ukraine were 21st, with a capital of almost half a billion dollars. Sadly, this wealth will be obtained by means of corn on the hands of landowners and by the deceptions of the state. Because at the same time, the rating rich has declared damages and budgeted about a billion dollars, which is almost the region's budget. Guth's involvement with offshore founding companies is also not about the native land, about the rebuilding of the villages of Ternopolish. A similar woe-maker is Beuchahgrokhlibprom and its owner, Peter Hatz. It also refers to rentals in bonds, seizure of agricultural fields, community property, destruction of crops, minimal tax payments at high turnover, and schemes for the abuse of agrarian grain. Regrettably, Mr. It is clear that the President's insistence on the need for land reform and the legislative definition of severe barriers to its inefficient use and speculation is essential for the State. And for Ternopilska, this could actually become one of the most important transformations that will put an end to the profit of shuler agrarians and the impoverishment of ordinary peasants. And agriculture can still become a powerful guardian of the country. This statement is considered to be an appeal to the President, the Prime Minister and all the power structures to stop the abuse in the agricultural sector of Ternopilland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u222	Yes, respected colleagues, national deputies Schlemko, Korge, Fomin, and Yavorowski pass on the right to speak to Vlasenko. So 12 minutes. Then Gussuk will perform instead of Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u223	Dear colleagues! We just saw a farce with you called Information from the Attorney General's Office about Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka. Believe me, we are witnesses of no less than a farce in another matter, in the question of the so-called "gas" case of Julia Timoshenko, who was examined yesterday and yesterday by the Cave District Court. In the Pecher District Court, Timoshenko’s complaint about a senior investigator’s decision in particularly important cases involving a criminal case against him was considered. During the court’s examination of the material, the circumstances were very interesting. What is Julia Timoshenko accused of? Despite the widespread resonance of this issue in the media, they comment on this issue in various ways. In fact, when you speak dry facts and you speak the text of a decision on a criminal offence, Timoshenko incriminates two things. The first is that, in excess of her official powers, she illegally, on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, issued so - called directives for the conduct of the gas negotiations. And secondly, as a result of these directives, the damage to the state of Ukraine was 1.9 billion dollars. Both are complete lies, and not only are they not confirmed but they are repudiated by the material of the matter. In fact, what documents did the investigator have in connection with a criminal case? In particular, the investigator held in his own hands the conclusion of the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine since 1806. 2010 I mean, for an active authority, the procurator general's acting deputy discussed these issues. What, then, did this Deputy Attorney General point out? He noted that according to the experts of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Institute of State and the right of the name of the Korean State, the NAC delegation's directives "Naftogaz Ukraine" to negotiate with the VAT "Gazprom", approved by the Prime Minister of Ukraine on 19.01.2009, could not be considered in the sense of the government's directives, which are governed by Ukrainian legislation. This means that Timoshenko acted within the limits of her authority. Timoshenko did not approve any directives to the government, but issued her own document, the Prime Minister's document. What does the investigator write with this? He writes, "No, Timoshenko acted against the law." So the investigator, in a criminal case against Timoshenko, was not based on criminal evidence, he acted against these materials, knowing that Timoshenko had not committed the crime. But in carrying out a certain commission, he made the decision he had made. In addition, a similar conclusion is found in the letter from the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine signed not by Oneishuk, but by Alexander Lavrinović, an active minister. Conclusion dated April 7, 20011 It is quite similar to the conclusion that Timoshenko acted within the limits of authority. Timishenko didn't do anything wrong. The question of determining damages is the second question, which is, in principle, impossible to investigate, if Timoshenko acted within the limits of powers, it actually seems absurd in this criminal case. How, then, do investigators propose that the damage be calculated? It's very simple. The next one says, "You know, this year the price of natural gas is higher, and the transit stays the same. According to NAC Naftogaz, the gas has to be purchased more expensive, and so this is the damage to the NAC of Naftogazu Ukraine. Under this absurd logic, criminal cases against all prime ministers have to be investigated, starting at least since 2006, and against all NAC leaders of Naftogazu Ukraine, starting as a minimum, since 2006. As the price of natural gas in Ukraine increased annually, the transit rate remained the same. So Yehanurov, Yanukovic, Timoshenko must then, by this absurd logic, bear the same responsibility as Yvchenko, Boyko and other NAC leaders of Naftogaz Ukraine. But once again, this logic is completely and completely absurd and cannot be accepted as normal. Under this logic, the government increased pensions, the government increased municipal tariffs, and citizens began paying more for municipal tariffs. Accordingly, they began to suffer. By this logic, the government should be in prison. Criminal cases must be brought against him. That is, it still confirms the absurdity of such claims. In addition, the investigator repeatedly stated in the decree that it seemed that Ukraine had begun to purchase natural gas at a cost of $450 per thousand cubic metres. This is also a complete lie and is refuted by the materials, documents that are in the material of the case and that are obtained by the same investigator. As a result of the findings made by the relevant experts of all ministries and departments, it should be noted that there was also a full representative of the service, the head of the second department of the Ukrainian Security Service, well, in order to make sure that the findings were correct, but even in this situation, experts were unable to lie and had to note that in 2009, Ukraine did not consume 450 gas, as a liar wrote in its decree, but $233 per thousand cubic metres. So I'm asking, where's the damage? If it's not 450 as a liar, 232 as the experts asked the same investigator. So where's the truth? In the explanations announced by the judge during the investigation of the facts of the case, she announced them in a public court, this information is public according to the current legislation of Ukraine, all the experts questioned in this case confirm one thing. When Timoshenko was forced to enter into negotiations, the Russian side took a very hard stand, namely: Ukraine will buy 450 gas. Not the basic price would be $450 per thousand cubic meters, and Ukraine would buy 450 gas. As a result of the negotiations, according to experts invited by the investigators, Timoshenko Ukraine received 233, which is the start of the negotiations – 450, which resulted in the negotiations — $233 per thousand cubic metres. Where's the damage? Show me the damage. They're gone. Yet, the investigator stubbornly writes "female," and the judge stubbornly listens to the damage. And we're going to have the same picture as we just had, listening to the information of the Attorney General's deputy. As if there is no such law, nothing seems to be broken, but one is in prison, and the other is a criminal case and there is a serious prospect that the courts involved will make the same decision. So I think that in this case, there is absolutely clear evidence that there is no element of crime in the actions of Tymoshenko, there is no ground for violating the criminal case in the actions of Tymoshenko. However, there is good reason to believe that the senior investigator in particularly important cases that violated this criminal case violated a number of articles of the Criminal Code. That is, this investigator is known to have unlawfully violated a criminal case against the person. And this should entail criminal responsibility. In this section, I ask you to consider my request to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the involvement of a senior investigator in particularly important cases by the Office of the Attorney General of the United Kingdom of Justice to criminal responsibility for the alleged unlawful violation of the criminal prosecution of an innocent person. Once again, I would like to point out that we still have to prove the investigation. If Timoshenko is incriminating the excess of power that caused the damage. There is no excess of power or damage. What else do you need? We still need an alternate attorney general in the rostrum who'll keep his eyes down and tell him everything's legal? Or what do we need? How long does society have to put up with this? So once again, I ask you to count my statement as a reference to the Attorney General on this matter, a question of parliament, I apologize. I consider that a request to the Attorney General. I ask the Attorney General to respond to the time limit set by the law in force. In the case of confirmation of these data, and they are absolutely indisputable, I ask you to bring the investigator to criminal liability. In addition, I want to point out a few more points. During the hearing of the case at the Pecher District Court, every attempt was made to conceal the case, regardless of the egregious facts that I had just cited. At first, the judge refused to allow the press at all. Then the judge had to allow the media to be present in large numbers. After that, the judge began to examine the material of the case in a way that was not investigated in any criminal case and during no deliberation of the issue of the annulment of the criminal order. The judge began to read all the pages of the criminal case. At that time, when the press left the sitting room, the judge considered the third volume in 15 minutes. I mean, when the judge saw that the press was gone, things started moving a lot faster. It should be noted that the criminal case against Timoshenko was not only unlawful, but the criminal case against Timoshenko continued to be investigated illegally. Unfortunately, the Attorney General's Office has been communicating with Timoshenko and with supporters through the press, without doing what is provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code. The Attorney General's Office, once again, despite the requirements of criminal procedure law, applied to Timoshenko illegally, once again, to a precautionary measure in the form of non-refoulement. Today, the Attorney General’s Office is spreading information that it seems that Timoshenko is impeding the conduct of investigations. I'm officially saying that's not true. Timoshenko is the first person to be interested in a quick and qualitative investigation of this criminal case. Because she thinks, and this is confirmed by the materials that are in the Pecher District Court, that she is, that there is no evidence that she has allegedly committed any offence, and even more criminally punished crimes. Tymoshenko acted perfectly legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u224	Please prepare an appropriate parliamentary request to the Attorney General from the subject referred to by national deputy Sergei Vlasenko. I would like to invite Hashuk Petr Petrovich, a group of Reforms for the Future. He will be followed by Jaroslav Kenzier, who is addressed by his colleague Roman Tkac. Please, Peter Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear radio listeners! The MP for the future wants to say that this spring, as in all previous years, we are forced to observe a sharp rise in fuel prices. A slight increase in world oil prices has led to an adequate increase in fuel prices in Europe. Instead, we have every fact that world oil prices are fluctuating is being used as a reason for the excessive rise in oil prices. And this is because over the last few years, we've been seeing a steady rise in fuel prices, which is argued by the fact that the world oil price is rising steadily. At the same time, when world oil prices drop, oil prices in Ukraine either remain at the same level or are rising significantly. That's why, according to expert estimates, ASAs who trade in the Ukrainian market have an income of 30 dollars higher in each tonne of oil products than in Europe or around the world. In doing so, the domestic oil market clearly follows another pattern. Despite all the promises made by fuel manufacturers that the price increase for petroleum products will be accompanied by an increase in their quality, we see the opposite trend: the higher the prices for petrol and diesel, the more on the counterfeit oil market. Today, according to various expert estimates, up to 30 percent of our market is sold. In summary, despite the fact that car fuel taxes have basically doubled over the last two years, consumers have never received high-quality fuel. This is not limited to human beings but also to the environment. At the same time, at the beginning of this year, the State standard postponed the transfer of fuel to the Euro-4 standard, since domestic manufacturers have not yet completed the modernization of factories. Covering up the slogans "Protecting a domestic manufacturer" and actually monopolizing the market, they've been quite comfortable for a long time feeling the cheeks of any modernization. It is obvious that if fuel prices in Ukraine were virtually compared to those in Europe, they could not continue to do so. In this context, the MP's Reform for the Future requires the government to take steps towards reforming the oil sector and their market. This is primarily about creating conditions for increasing competition in this sector of the economy. In addition, it is necessary to finally develop a strategic reserve of oil products that can quickly put out speculative fuel prices. These are the measures that need to be taken immediately so that millions of Ukrainian motorists can buy at European prices in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u226	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u227	Quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u228	I invite Jaroslav Kendzior, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u229	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear countrymen to the Ukrainians! After voting on April 21, using the Red Flag of Victory, the Supreme Council of Ukraine set up a provocation that broke out on May 9 in Lviv and other areas. On the other hand, the Supreme Council has legalized Ukraine as a steel reserve in central Europe. We've all seen how the State Blue-Yellow Flag, in the capital of Ukraine, was the first to pass, so-called Flag of Victory, the second far behind was the State Blue-Yellow Flag, and in the back of them and President Janukovich and all the people of power was breathing a huge portrait of Joseph Jugashvili, the one who in his bloody mouth pierced millions of Ukrainians. [[Stalin]] Can anyone with common sense and common sense imagine for a moment what such a sight could be seen on the streets of Riga, Tallinn, Vilnius, Warsaw, Budapest, Prague where the living were walking and missing Soviet tanks? I am fully responsible to state that the Lviv city and district authorities, taking into account the provocations of the Supreme Council on 21 April this year, with information about the intentions of the Moscow diversors in the characters of the Russian Unity and the Family and others to feast in Lviv with steel flags and portraits, are doing everything possible to make sure that on 9 May in Lviv and the region is calm. I wanted to believe that peace in the state, in any of its regions, also needed the central leadership of Ukraine. On Friday, May 6, I met the head of the Lviv administration, Michael Cimbaluk. He assured me that he had agreed with the leadership of the state that there would be no red flags or gastrolers from Odessa and Crimea in Lviv. Lviv also celebrated his 755th birthday. As the red fascists in Lviv walked, they saw the whole of Ukraine and the world. To guide the city and the area, the appearance of pro-Moscian fighters was a complete surprise. With honor on the Hill of Glory and back after the provocative task accomplished was accompanied by OMON and the militia. The provocation is more than obvious. Only the President of the State could give the command to implement it, and the humble servants of Mohilov and Horokovsky carried it out. Hostages to this provocation and extremes were the local authorities and the Levites. A reasonable question. Why do authorities have such provocations? It seems to me that the answer is one, to start a fire of hatred between various parts of Ukraine, so that this Soviet conqueror does not think why today's authorities have not provided him with at least a little bit of the kind of life that the vanquished Wehrmacht veteran today has. Why was it that on Victory Day 9th May, there was a few miles of turn here in Kiev for a grueling soldier’s porridge? And even this luxury of more than half the queue was not enough. And for 30 million dollars spent on producing and purchasing red flags of victory, it would be possible to feed not only Kiev’s veterans but also other cities and spread oil and a piece of meat on dry porridge. The portraits of Stalin and the same steel red flags are easy to ward off Europe as the Kremlin needed. And he wipes his hands, and our local hooves have committed yet another serious crime, but on this occasion the descendants of Joseph Jugashvili do not settle down, they promise to visit Lviv on June 22 on the day of Hitler’s attack on their friend Stalin yesterday. What does the date of June 22 mean for us, I want to tell them? On June 22, on the day of Hitler’s attack on the Soviet Union in Lviv, a mass extermination of all prisoners of Stalin’s buttocks began. The encavedists in the front field fired at 24th to 25th of all Ukrainian patriots who were lurking in encavedist prisons: the prison of London, the prison of Brigitka, the prison of Zamastrinowski. In each district center, in each of the more or less populous areas, the encavedists made this mess bloody, destroying everyone before. That's it, that's it. And on June 22 and beyond, we will have permanent days at the site of destruction by the Soviet authority of Ukrainian patriots of prayer — the honor of memory. If these people who are going to come to Lviv agree to come along with us to pray and to exchange and condemn the steel catas, let them come to health. If they come to teach us how to love a steel flag, today I call on the Levites and deliberately do so, to go out at least 100,000 Levites on the street and to meet these descendants of Joseph Stalin. Because when central government is looking no matter as a stalinist provocateur, the red fascists are looting Ukraine, Galicina must at least protect herself. And we'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u230	I'd like to invite Gennady Kick-Ass. He will be followed by Julia Kovalevska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u231	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! By my statement from the People's Authority party, from the MP's Reform for the Future Group, I want to raise the issue of the situation that took place in the city of Mikolayev in the long-term family of Chernisov. For almost a year I have been concerned about this issue, and I try to resolve it because when I see the conditions in which my family exists, I have not been able to remain indifferent. Imagine a family of 12 people today living in a one - room apartment with a total living area of 14 and a half square feet [1.2 sq m] per inhabitant. With the smallest resident eight months after his birth. I have repeatedly addressed the Mycolayian City Head, the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the head of the Mikolai District State Administration, but unfortunately, I have received blanks from officials in a hurry to inform me of the orderly number of the Chernisov family in the home turn and that the local authorities have created a commission to study and consider issues that have been taken into control and may eventually be resolved. On this point, all acts of authority have ceased, and the family continues to exist, and so does not, unfortunately, live, for it is not called life. In time, it became clear that no one and no one cared about the matter, and no one was really going to solve it. It is a pity that today the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, the dominant factions, has joined this group of apathetics, as they have refused to support my parliamentary request today from a matter of concern to the President of Ukraine. Unfortunately, even the left faction, such as the Communist faction, unfortunately did not support this MP request. And a family of 10 children, including the baby, continued to live on their 14 - foot [14 m] long and to wait for better housing conditions and an increase in living space. Thank you for your attention. Please consider your statement as the next parliamentary address to the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u232	Please make appropriate statements. I invite Julia Kovalevsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. It will be followed by Eugene Volintz, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u233	Dear Nikolai Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, TV setters, radio listeners! 66 years separates us from the victorious spring of 1945. What is 66 years for history? It's just a generation's memory. We do not need to find the truth in the dust of the grey chronicles, for we still have people living among us who remember how it really was. This memory makes them not young and far ill to wear war prizes, to take the hand of grandchildren and grandchildren and to carry flowers to their front friends with tears in their eyes. And as we die of heart, like the most magnificent music, we listen to the silent bells of the Orders and medals on their chests. For 66 years, it seemed to us that no one in the right could stand in their way. Here come the heroes, here come the winners. On May 9, there was a handful of naked young men in Lviv who blocked the way for the winners. Who are they? Mancurts that don't remember? They sow ethnic divisions, intolerance, and Christian values. The insult of the clergy and the attack on veterans is an extreme degree of evasiveness. Who led them by their hand to these holy places for millions of people? Political beliefs? I doubt it. And if they do, they're not their own, they're their own, they're their own, they're their own. Someone was very helpful in burning this fuse. Only the explosion didn't happen. A dozen neofascist young men are not the whole of Lviv. Lviv is the pride of Ukraine, a bright, hospitable city and its reputation should not be tried. Friends! Ukraine is going to Europe. We declare it almost every day. The European culture is based on tolerance, tolerance, partnership and respect for working together to achieve public and public goals. I see developments in Lviv as an unsuccessful attempt to undermine Ukraine's authority in the eyes of a democratic international community. Both the Ministry of the Interior and the Attorney-General's Office will provide a legal assessment of the violations of human rights and freedoms. Dear veterans! I address you, heroes of victory and children of war! Being your heirs is a great honor and a great responsibility. The memory of the dead is needed, and the care of the living is needed. Therefore, on instructions from the President of Ukraine, the Government is working to provide housing for all persons with disabilities of the Great Homeland War. In the near future, the rehabilitation and modernization of hospitals and boarding schools for veterans will be undertaken. The 2011 budget has invested more money to help war children and veterans than it did in last year's budget. Dear veterans! You can be absolutely sure that no one will ever forget or question your feat and your heroism. Thank you for winning!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u234	I invite Zybenko Petar Stepanovich, who was given the word Eugen Volinec. He will be followed by Yuri Gnatkevich. Please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u235	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. Dear colleagues, venerable veterans! In the days of Ukraine, all men of goodwill have celebrated the 66th anniversary of the Great Victory over Fascism. The vast majority of the country’s population honored the creators of this age - old event, the veterans of the frontists, the workers of the rear who liberated the Soviet country, Europe, and the world from fascism. But, indeed, the great, national festival was overshadowed by the turn of the savage slaughter of war veterans by cave nationalists, neophasists from the "Freedom" union in Lviv. The whole world is surrounded by television footage of modern-day heroes tearing the prizes out of war veterans, breaking the guards' ribbons, burning flags under which war veterans won the victory over fascism, beating the veterans themselves. This was in the eyes of police officers, who acted very tolerantly toward the attackers. And the district police chief, after this bloody execution, claimed that the police had successfully carried out the task. Then the natural question arises: What was the assignment? The pennant of Ukrainian democracy in another "glorified" Ukraine, placing it at the centre of an international scandal. And I would very much like for us Ukrainians to understand one simple thing as soon as possible. This bloody slaughter was provided by the spiritual descendants and the heirs of those who in the distant year 1941 met with the bread-force of fascists who received from Hitler the "iron crosses" who forever branded themselves as fascist followers of the Fascist Halls. They are not annoyed by the victory festival, they are irritated by the victory flag, and they are irritated by the findings of the Great Homeland War. Well, that's not the ending they wanted for this war. These events are a powerful testimony to the undeniable fact that Ukraine is expanding, and in western areas, especially in Lviv, Fascism is already prevalent. Yushchenko's gone, and "Jushchenka" is left. The Ukrainian Veterans' Organization, the Ukrainian Company's faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine require the President of Ukraine, the Attorney-General's Office of Ukraine to investigate this neo-Fascist Sabbath thoroughly and to bring criminal responsibility to the organizers and perpetrators of this cynical crime. Let's stop fascism before it's too late! Fascism won't go away! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u236	I'd like to invite Yuri Gnatkiewich, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Vladimir Ariev, who was given the word Yuri Odarczenk. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u237	Yuri Gnatkevitch, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Dear colleagues, there are a lot of talk here today about Yuri Lucenka, my countryman, the former Minister of Interior. He's been told that he was brought a TV and he's watching it. If he's watching him, I want to tell him: "Juriu Vitaliyovich, don't joke, because I was hungry in front of Paska for a week, and it ended up watching TV for three weeks in "Phoephania." I mean, as a result of the wrong way out of hunger, I had internal bleeding, and just because of the courage and great expertise of doctors, I was saved and I have the opportunity to perform here today. They say he's watching TV, and I've watched TV. He's in the cell, and I'm in the room. He's already analyzed Ukrainian television in his cell, and I've analyzed it in his room. I agree with him. All the Ukrainians from what is known as Ukrainian television have disappeared. Vladimir Lenin once said that film is the most important thing for all of us. I also used to take this phrase in a very formal way. Now I understand what that means. And recently, I also heard that our armies had already beaten Germany, and the Germans were still making marcheshau, making merry movies, and turning them to the Germans, encouraging them, and saying that Hitler would win. You know, I've been to Germany a few times, I've been to a higher qualification. And here's a German who told me a story like this, that when they started spinning a Soviet movie about partisans fighting with Germans, and then they, the little Germans, 15-14 years old, showed them how guerrillas wanted to take away the German train that was going to Stalingrad to complete the German army. We didn't worry about the Germans, we didn't worry about our parents, we were worried about the guerrilla. And we were worried that if they couldn't blow up the train. You can understand what a movie is and how it manipulates people’s consciousness, especially the minds of young people. Today, this film, which we see in which there is nothing more Ukrainian, manipulates the minds of Ukrainians. Ukraine has disappeared from Ukrainian television and film. The last film was the movie "Roxolana." He was so intimidated by the oligarhat that with the tobacco industry's hands, Kuchmi set up a draft decree and he eliminated the Ukrainian Film Promotion Fund. Now we see more than just Russian, we see Russia in the movies. So there's no more Ukraine in the movies or on TV. I want to thank Mr. Ahmetov for leaving the Ukrainians on a television channel called what is not paradoxically, "Ukraine," a small letter to the Ukrainians. But in Feofani, very small television sets and I, a Ukrainian, had to approach and clap my eyes and read what was there for the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u238	I invite Vladimir Ariev, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". He will be followed by Yuri Carmazin. Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman and all who are watching the end of this week’s broadcast! If you've seen what happened literally an hour ago in this room, you've probably heard that a representative of the Attorney General brought us here. We wanted to hear honest information from the Attorney General's Office on Lucenka's case, and we heard what we always heard. We've heard more openly about the laws of Ukraine, we've heard outright abuse of the people's deputies, who were just actually showing the facts of the lie from the Attorney General's Office, and the representative of this department was standing here like nothing ever happened. In fact, it must have a strong nerve. I envy these strong nerves when these things happen. I was going to say that today we're going to find that Yuri Lucenka's condition is constantly deteriorating. And the more dangerous the situation becomes. Doctors are already telling the truth that soon the irreversible processes in Yuri Lucenka’s body can begin, which can lead to a fatal outcome, unfortunately. Sadly, it was the body of Yuri Lucenka, who is currently suffering from diabetes while in the world of AIDS, who responded to hunger. There's a threat to his life. Nevertheless, the Attorney General’s Office does not even intend to change the precautionary measure for a person who has lost his health in WHO. Which is why the Henprosecutor's office, again, I want to emphasize, is lying to us all the time. They say they obey the laws. Under the Law, however, the right of the accused person to communicate with a lawyer is not guaranteed at all. Today, lawyers were forbidden to go to Yuri Lucenka’s chambers. Here's a response from the Attorney General's Office on May 10, 2011. It says that Yuri Lucenka’s commission examination and health were considered satisfactory. It's a lie. He was in the hospital that day. And I want to tell you that we demand the immediate release of Yuri Lucenka from the custody and change his precautions. We accuse Deputy Attorney General Kuzmin and the investigating soldier of systematic human rights violations and abuse of Yuri Lucenk. We accuse Yanukovic and his authority of political persecution, selective justice and violation of Ukrainian citizens' rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u240	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u241	And we claim that we will get justice by all means. And we will be able to resist the oppressed and persecuted. And we stand back for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u242	I'd like to invite Yuri Carmazin. He will be followed by Vladimir Leschchenko, a faction of Communists. Yuri Anatolyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u243	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens! From this rostrum I once had the honour to state that in the actions of today's vice-premier, and then the head of the district council, Kolesnik, was no part of the crime. I'm waiting for one of the regionals to say that what they're doing with respect to Lucenka is a violation of both human and God's commandments. Political revenge is the motive for keeping Lucenko under guard! The information of Deputy Henprocuror Prisak was not discussed today. At the same time, I have the honour to state and recall the content of article 62 of the Ukrainian Constitution. And she clearly says that a person is found innocent of committing a crime and cannot be punished until his guilt is brought to justice. I was puzzled that it was said, "We let the lawyers come." Your Honor, I don't need your permission! The Constitution, article 63 in its second part, states: “The accused, accused or defendant is entitled to protection.” And it's already being implemented by law. If you don't understand, I'll make it clear. The judge who took Lucenka into custody exceeded his authority, went outside the KPC and, like the investigator, created and committed official crimes. Those who refuse to do so also commit such a crime. I'm talking to Mogilov. You've got worse exposure rates all over the crime scene, you've got crime covered up, and you've got 20 people protecting a sick person. The whole world has seen it. Have the honor! I now address Yuri Lucenka with a request: Juro, stop starving! I am addressing the President of Ukraine and the Attorney General. Dear Victor Fedorovich, Victor Pavlovich! Please stop the act of political revenge! I, like the 90 deputies, say that Lucenko is not going anywhere. He's got nowhere to run. It's his land. And those who arrested him, let them prepare to flee. I would like to raise the questions that people who are concerned about today are asking. The man writes: the village of Biloczeruk Poltavska oblast, Vitaly Pavlovich Pianco: "How long will the prices for drugs continue to rise? Prices go up every day, our cheap drugs disappear from the counters. For this authority promised the people a good life, and it came out, and we were deceived. People die from this life every day, and doctors prescribe, in collusion with drug owners, the most expensive drugs."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u244	Finish it, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u245	Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u246	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u247	Thank you. I am asking for an appeal on the deterioration of the provision and supply of medicines, the provision of government medicines for Ukrainian production to consider a request for this government, and I ask you to form my request as a parliamentary request to the President and the Attorney General of Ukraine for the immediate release of Yuri Lucenka from custody, and Lucenka is asking you to stop starving. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u248	Please make appropriate statements. I'd like to invite Vladimir Leschenko, a faction of Communists. It will be followed by John Popescu, a faction of the Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u249	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The disgraceful events of May 9th in Lviv should focus our attention on the MPs, the attention of the authorities, the attention of the whole society to the fact that the roots of neofascism continue to branch in Ukraine. The Fascists of ancient Montenegro also occasionally put their vile heads out of shelters. Attempts at beating the Komsomolites, burning the red flags, setting the entrance doors, damage to the windows, and walls of the premises of the U.K. National Assembly, where the reception of the Ukrainian National Deputy and members of the local councils, have become a regular abuse of the Soviet Monuments. The last barbarism, as described by the disgraceful inscriptions of the facades of this room, was carried out on the night of May 11 - 12, this year. Six police officers came in and we just spread our hands, saying we can't catch them. But the local authorities of the interior have long known the names of this pile of vandals. So will the police finally be able to bring to bear the responsibility of the wicked wrongdoers that he has long known? I seriously doubt that this has never been done in the last 10 years, even though there have been video recordings and witnesses and bullies caught. Is it not clear that pampering the fascists on the part of the authorities and the militia will lead to similar rewards? The fact is that the government of large capital continues to fish in the form of revenue in the tin water. The looting of public wealth continues, the exploitation of the labour force is increasing, and the standard of living of ordinary people is deteriorating. And in order for the population not to oppose it, the authorities feed it through their snakes with information that distracts people from thinking about fighting for their interests, or even deprives them of any information at all. The main means of obtaining information in rural areas, for example, are mail and radio. So, capitalists are not comfortable keeping the postal network developed during Soviet times, and it's under the terms of optimism for 20 years is substantially reduced. The same is true of the radio network. Her extermination in Chernigo is being intensified by ignoring people’s thoughts. In the Seminal region, the last 560 radio stations have been shut down for days, and people are forced to write claims that they are refusing. I urge the President and the government to come to terms with their power to stop the material, moral and information abuse of the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u250	I invite John Popescu, the faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Vitaly Corge, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u251	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The noble colleagues, the noble Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Recently, a technical draft of the Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies, which envisions a return to the mixed electoral system, was published on the website of Minsk. In principle, in support of such a system of elections as more democratic, I have to say that the bill did not reflect those proposals that were made by those national groups of Ukraine that entered into the Cooperation and Partnership Agreement signed by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic on 30 November 2009 with the largest national communities of Ukraine and, above all, with Russian-speaking, Romanian-speaking, Hungarian-speaking. In particular, it was about ensuring the rights of indigenous national minorities to political representation at the parliamentary level. We sent our proposals to both the President's Administration and the Prime Minister, but unfortunately, the working group didn't take them into account. In particular, the Romanian community sent its proposals on February 17th of this year. Dear colleagues, I will pay attention to only one aspect, namely, the creation of one-maned constituencies, which must take into account the compactness of the residence of national minorities, as provided for in article 7 of the Ukrainian Law of 24 September 1997, followed by the first elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine under a mixed system in 1997, namely, "Paragraph 1. One-off constituency constituencies are formed by the Central Electoral Commission, with approximately equal numbers of voters in each constituency throughout Ukraine, at the proposals of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district of Kiev, Sevastopol City Councils, taking into account the administrative and territorial structure of Ukraine and the compactness of the residence of national minorities. Item 2. Areas in which individual national minorities live compactly should not go beyond one constituency. In cases where the number of voters belonging to national minorities is greater than that necessary for the formation of one constituency, the districts are formed in such a way that at least one voter belonging to a national minority is made up of the majority of the electorate in the constituency. Since there is now a broad public discussion of this bill, I am addressing the Miniust and the working group of the President's Administration, which is working on the final drafting of this bill, with the request to take into account, at least if the proposal is made, with the aim of preventing the violation of article 22, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, which does not allow the adoption of new laws to reduce the scope of existing rights and freedoms, I ask that national minorities be restored to the rights that existed during the implementation of the mixed system in 1997. Moreover, this is one of the commitments to the Council of Europe. Please consider my statement as a request to the Minist and appropriate working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u252	Please prepare appropriate parliamentary requests. I'd like to invite Korz Vitali Terentiyovich, the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." It will be followed by Eugene Kzarykov, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u253	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The entrepreneurs failed to recover from the money-slaying killings called the Tax Code, resulting in the cessation of hundreds of thousands of domestic legal persons and many foreign entities in Ukraine, as a new wave of economic repression aimed at suppressing the business initiative is being raised. The next step in this wrong direction is the government's attempt to introduce a value added tax for all services in the information field. I'm not going to repeat the absurdity of VAT as a non-economic form of artificial tax burden that doesn't have any economic sense, but it has nothing to do with reform. Long time ago. The Tax and Customs Policy Committee recently reviewed the Government's draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and the approval of export duty rates for certain types of grain crops. [[Registration number 8321]] You're going to tell us what the area of information and how it relates to grain, and this is the typical practice of modern reformers -- to pass horses and slaves together, in one packet. The bill proposes to increase interest rates for oil production in Ukraine by amending the Code of Taxation, paying for the use of feedstocks for the extraction of useful fossils, collecting as a target supplement to the current electricity tariff, introducing export duties for certain types of grain crops, such as wheat, wheat and cereals, barley, maize, and introducing a tax on added value of all services in the field of information. That's a package. What does it mean to introduce a value added tax for all services in the information field? It can be argued with certainty that the introduction of VAT on information services will have a very negative impact, primarily hindering the development of all sectors of the economy, since it will limit the introduction of information technology, significantly worsen the conditions of all businesses and organizations in the information sector, which will force ordinary, medium-sized operators to step out of this area and strengthen the monopoly of powerful companies and thus increase tariffs. It's worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u254	If you don't mind, the final sentence, please, Vitaly Terenyovich, because we can't make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u255	The introduction of VAT on information services is a big and very serious mistake that will harm everyone, and that is why we must not allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u256	I would like to invite Eugene Kralkov, a faction of Communists. And it will end the hour of the "Victory" by John Stojko, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u257	Respectable voters, TV viewers, Ukrainian People's Deputies, Chairman! Much has been said today about the events on 9 May. The only explanation I found was the exaggeration of neo-fascists, nationalists, when their ideologies, Bandera and Stecko, wrote: "Let two thirds of Ukrainian territory be destroyed by atomic bombs, only one third of which would be ruled by the Ukrainian Power." And, by the way, Kate Chumachenko has been in this organization since she was 15. [[I remind you, this is President Yushchenko's wife.]] When the faction looked at the mess that was coming, I saw the footage that was in the hall today for the first time. And when our veterans of the Great Homeland War, they didn't matter, the Lions, the Donets, brought them to the Hall of Fame, and they beat the glass and threw the smoke checkers there, they all knew that it could have led to an accident, until the death come, they really shook their hand in the fist. And the right part of the room today responded with a smile, and we looked and decided, indeed, to formally write to the President of the Union of European Football Associations of UEFA, Mr. Michel Platini, Secretary-General of the Union of European Football Associations, Mr. Gianni Infatino. I'll read our speech briefly. Ukraine believes it is its duty to ensure that Euro-2012 is held at the highest level, and the main task of the tournament organizers is to create the most secure environment for people during their stay in Ukraine during such a prestigious European match. I inform you, on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, that in the 2010 municipal elections in Lviv, political forces have come to power to manifest a nationalistic, chauvinistic ideology, an ideology of violation of the rights of citizens of any nationality or nationality other than their title. [[In parentheses, we define this as neo-Naziism, ultra-nationalism.]] These forces continue to sow discord, national racial intolerance not only in Lviv but also throughout Ukraine. Even the name of the stadium is intended by local extremists in power to give a similar name to the city of Lviv during the Fascist occupation — Lemberg, not Lviv or Lev. In addition, the city has open facilities, museums, exhibitions that promote the activities and personality of collaborators condemned by the Nuremberg Tribunal. The main aggression of extremists was in Lviv on 9 May, on the day that the world public stood up to the winners of fascism in World War II. The Profascist political organization Freedom, with other extremist organizations, organized, with the support of local authorities in this city, the violence of veterans in Holm Slava. Moreover, during the mourning ceremony, extremists also took a wreath from the diplomats and trampled it in public view. The Fascist Sabbath, which was organized by extremists in Lviv, has once again demonstrated to the world that a neo-fascist, non-nationalist regime is being established in Western Ukraine. We are convinced that such actions can have a negative impact on Ukraine's image and therefore we ask UEFA to discuss the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u258	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u259	Please consider moving Euro-2012 from Lviv to Dnepropetrovsk or Odessa, where there are certified stadiums. Since I do not see as the right part of the nationalists, it will be understood who enters the stadium in Lviv by the representatives of Moscow, Jews and other nationalities. In general, they must be criminally responsible for everything they have done in this room and 9 numbers in front of our veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u260	I invite John Stoick, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u261	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Indeed, when you listen to the speeches of the national MPs, it seems as if you are going crazy when it is said that in Ukraine, as if it were the Ukrainians themselves -- whether it was the western Ukrainians or Central Ukraine -- are doing everything they can to make a storm happen. In fact, it's very strange to hear that on May 9th in Lviv, in that city that cherished the revival of the Ukrainian independent state, there were events that struck not only Ukraine, but the whole world. And that's why today I listened to Mohilov, with his smart eyes, looking at him and thinking it was the general's man, the officer has the honor of standing on this stand and lying, just-just-just, all Ukrainians. Because what happened was pure water provocation. Believe that the tolerant lions of 20 years have never beaten a war veteran; they have always dealt with them; the veterans of the Ukrainian rebel army have never had a misunderstanding in Western Ukraine with the Soviet veterans. And so I'm sorry that the Ukrainian authorities today either don't want to control the situation, or they've already given up, openly surrendered to the Kremlin's treaty, which introduced such a long operation to alienate Ukraine from the European direction to make a ghetto here, and then to establish its order, the Putin order. Because when the blood hadn't dried up yet and it was spilled, unfortunately, in Lviv, which was caused by the provokers and in these actions, I think it was both the militia and the Security Service. Because it provided them with access to the Hill of Glory, those provokers who came there. And who announced a month in advance that they would teach the Levians how to love the red flag and how to go back to "stalinism." And that's why we have to think about it today, and what about June 22? Because Russian Putinian youths have already said that they will "walk through the streets of Lviv". Local Communists, representatives of the pro-Russian chauvinist organizations, have already been declared. And so we really should not give up the fight, but just show that we Ukrainian patriots are able to defend our state if we can't do it, not Janukovic, not his team. And that's why I'm asking all the Western Ukrainians to go out on the street, especially on the street of Lviv. As opposition deputies, we will be with you in order to avoid provocation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u262	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u263	in order to show the whole of Ukraine and the world that Ukraine will be a democratic European state, despite the fact that today's regime wants to bring it into the Cabal. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-13-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, the hour of the "Virgin" ends, and I will add only two strokes of my own as a person who signed documents from the Ukrainian government in his own time regarding the Euro-2012. And I want those politicians who don't find any rational and pragmatic arguments about how to work in Ukraine to stop in their speeches and letters. Because the leadership of the State is responsible for this tournament, and no one will be able to review the principles that are defined. And the Euro will be in Ukraine, as it is supposed, in four cities: Kiev, Donetsk, Harkov and Lviv. And you don't have to play these things by undermining the international authority and image of Ukraine in the world. And so I would like to pay attention, there's been a lot of discussion about today's history with May 9, that if the authorities fail to adequately assess the situation that has arisen and does not respond to the influence beyond Ukraine to review Ukrainian history, we can get to the point that we will have people who will still have the Ribbentrop Molotov pact to celebrate here in Ukraine, and the authorities and the militia will cover them. So we need to stop and protect our own history from those people who want to use it, especially outside of Ukraine. I want to inform you that the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, May 17th at 10 a.m., May 16 at 11th -- Conciliation Council, as usual. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares closed. Good luck.
