ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:51]] They registered in the 398 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear National MPs, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on March 15th 26 issues of the agenda have been discussed: 10 laws and 3 decrees have been passed, one bill adopted on the basis, one bill adopted on the second reading, with the exception of separate articles and chapters, which are aimed at a committee for further elaboration and the next submission of a second reading, three bills have been rejected. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes Wednesday for statements by national deputies with applications, reports, queries, and information. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. People's MP, Petrenko, Faction "BUT" - "Fatherland." The next one will be by the Potaps.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u2	Petrenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Please pass the word to Philenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u3	Vladimir Filenko, Faction of the Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I was led to this conclusion by President Yanukovic and Prime Minister Azarov. They listened to a lot of funny things, but it would be funny if it weren't so sad. Now it's the turn of the boys to say what the boys did. Promises before the election are the first key slogan to lower the price of Russian gas. "The Harkov Agreement will enable us not to raise tariffs on gas and GKH this year," President Janukovic said on April 22, 2010. In fact, the price limit for natural gas, which provides heating, rose by 50 percent from August 1, 2010, from 872 dollars to a thousand 309 dollars. Since April 1, 2011, a 50 - percent increase in gas is expected. In his postcards the day before the election, Janukovic argued that gas prices for the population were higher in 2009. Indeed, since January 1, 2011, heating tariffs have increased in all the cities of the country. The cost of heating across Ukraine is increased by 30 per cent, water supply by 25 per cent, and housing by almost double. Electricity increased by 30 percent from February 1st to February 1. Janukovic promised to ensure that there is a legal level of assurance of a price, stable, and affordable national anti-crisis food basket. In fact, according to their data, prices rose by 10.6 percent. The Association of Banks claims that prices have risen by 20 percent. Our experts estimate that the consumer price index has increased by 142 percent. On the air of the Mikolai district television company, Janukovic promised that he would never go to a higher retirement age. In fact, the pension reform, the retirement genocide that we are looking forward to tomorrow, predicts an increase in the retirement age for women and on average increases the minimum retirement age by 10 years. A list of such promises and unfulfilled ones can be continued indefinitely. We witnessed that the boys were running a blank. Now for the quote. "The unprofitable and unprofessional authorities have brought the country to ruin. Realism requires a higher management of rapid and effective response. It is clear to everyone that today’s leaders are the country’s leaders."..
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u6	"..can't carry out this responsible task, they've forgotten the state," this quote from Victor Yanukovich's presidential election program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u7	Thank you. Vasil Ivanovich Potapov. Gregory Kaletnik, please. The faction of the Party of the Regions. John the Rabbit will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Unfortunately, we have to say that our colleagues are somehow able to paint the situation particularly in the food market, especially in the economy today, as if it were the result of the actions of today's authorities. This is not really the case, because today there is a large part of these cash gaps, those budgetary, financial failures, especially those of the producers, to overcome and do all that can be done to resolve and fill the budget, to make commitments to all social programmes, and to make the most of them, is the activity, the effective operation of the country's economy. I want to give you a situation in the food market that we have. You and I know very well that in the world today there is a huge food shortage, and the world’s food market has seen a significant increase in food prices — up to 30 percent in total. It can't be avoided, because Ukraine is integrated into the European and world community, and we are members of the World Trade Organization with you, which is what we've worked so hard to do, so we can't get around situations like the world's impact on the situation in Ukraine. And so, indeed, there is some problem with the rise in food prices and in our country. But we have specific questions, and I'd like to talk about them. First of all, we don't have an increase in agricultural production. And indeed, the government has managed to stabilize the situation. Whoever's criticizing the quota of grain, but I want to say from this high rostrum that it's largely a quota of grain that saved Ukraine from what we're talking about today only about Greek, but we're not talking about food as a whole. Thus, the measures applied today by both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Cabinet of Ministers are designed primarily to stabilize the situation and challenges in the world, to make them as easy as possible and to soften them in Ukraine. Therefore, these measures will enable and bring out price policies today, as well as provide all the necessary food products in Ukraine’s markets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u9	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Soltus will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u10	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, today there will be parliamentary hearings on Chernobyl. I hope that the 25-year-old time that separates us from those terrible events and the events at the Japanese atomic stations will lead us to a very responsible conversation across a whole set of problems, from security issues to environmental issues. And now I'm going to draw your attention to a problem that's always out of control and society all the time: the issue of saving the cultural heritage of Ukrainians threatened by Chernobyl. So it's in human nature that in the context of technological or natural disasters, they save people, their lives, and, secondly, the cultural and historical acquisition of the people, their historical memory, and their spiritual potential. But you can call a lot of examples when people gave priority to saving people's cultural and historical heritage over their own lives. The cultural and historical heritage is the nation's main establishment document, its passport. The Chernobyl disaster has posed such a challenge to our society. As a result of this technological catastrophe, a large area of Ukrainian policy, which is of exceptional importance in the ethnic history of Ukraine, has ceased to exist as an entire ethno-cultural realm. Today, the only specialized institution in Ukraine to save national cultural values in emergency situations is the State Scientific Center for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and Technological Disasters of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Ukraine. He did a huge job on it. from the preservation of cultural heritage in the Chernobyl disaster zone. In particular, the complex historical and ethnographic research has covered 450 Polish villages and 94 compact settlements of settlers, collected over 40,000 objects of museum significance and produced about 150 scientific documents, 98 thousand photographs, four thousand hours of audio and video recordings that identify various aspects of material and cultural. and the spiritual culture of the swallows. Yet, because of the constant lack of funding for regular expeditions, the area has not even been examined. For several years now, the Centre’s allocated funds have been insufficient for a complex expedition of at least one per year. But the most urgent task is to create a museum of Ukrainian national culture, which is to bring back to future generations the historical memory of the lost spiritual territory of Ukraine. But the main obstacle on this path is the complete absence of adequate facilities not only for the museum but also for the center itself. The collected museum funds are scattered over the temporary unapproached monasteries of Chernobyl, Ivanov, Kiev. And in order to resolve this issue, a willful state decision must be taken. So I urge you to just support the proposal to allocate the premises and create a museum of folk culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u11	Finish up, please. The national MP, Goreen, has the right to speak. This right is passed by Comrade Soltus, faction of the Party of the Regions. Hennaday Samofalov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The end of February and March of this year and the coming years will be the time for the conclusion of the work of President Yanuković and Kabmin Azarov. Even the most serious criticisms of the President's work agreed that it was President Yanukovic who had moved from the talks to the case, and reform had begun in all directions, it was President Yanukovic who had ordered order in the system of executive power, which had been completely destroyed by the previous command, that President Yanukovic had given a clear signal to investors that there was now a team that respected the law and the rights of investors to come and work in Ukraine, that is President Yanukovic had started a systematic fight against corruption. When the Government of Azarov reported, even yesterday in this room, our opponents kept saying, "Don't remember what happened last year, you don't have to remember what happened five years ago, you're talking about yourself!" And I think we need to remember, and we need to remember how in 2005, the last power was given to a colorful developing country, and in the course of the year, we experienced all the crises that we can survive: both milk and meat and sugar and gas and gas and prices, and the course became feverish. It was in 2005 that privatization began and that the largest metalworking combination was sold for 24 billion grevens, and the money was not understood. It must be remembered that it was at that time that gas contracts were destroyed that allowed the Russian gas to be purchased by the year 2011 for $50,000 per thousand cubes. It must be remembered that it was the past power that did not await the crisis that swept the entire world and impoverished the people and destroyed the prices and destroyed them. And we must remember that it was the past power that occupied the money at an incredible rate. In one and a half years, 240 billion bracelets were occupied. And just to satisfy the ambition of the neurotic Prime Minister to become president, money was being given away. We need to remember. Because memory is an addiction to the disease of past power. And only when we remember will we never suffer from this disease. We need to remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u13	Samofal Gennady Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u14	I'd like to give the floor to my colleague Mutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u15	National MP Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is the national deputy Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u16	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. Dear colleagues, fellow countrymen! In this year's address on the occasion of the global consumer's day, Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic noted that the protection of consumer rights is a fundamental sign of democratic society and one of the priorities of Ukrainian policy. At the same time, the head of state highlights an extremely important aspect: non-market entry of goods that do not meet consumer standards. Unfortunately, violations of consumer rights are the most common problem facing Ukrainians in everyday life. An analysis of the work of regional consumer protection authorities shows that in 2010 more than 45,000 farm subjects were tested in Ukraine and more than 230,000 violations were detected, accounting for 87 percent of the number tested. In addition, consumer rights problems are equally relevant for all regions of Ukraine. Yes, in the Ternopil region, the weight of the violations detected was 93 percent, in Lviv, 87 percent, in Ivano-Frankivsky, 81 percent. However, in Galicina in previous years, the State's enforcement of consumer rights has gained considerable antisocial and criminal corruption. For example, the head of the state enterprise Ternopolstandardmethology joins the criminal group Araks, which operated in the West Ukraine. At the same time, his current first deputy and current district administrator for consumer protection were in the service of internal affairs. Thus, the previous authorities have turned state control over the protection of consumer rights into a refuge for former bandits and corrupt militiamen. And this is another very eloquent confirmation of the need to implement the President's human and socio-economic reforms. These reforms are not a one-time action or a populism game, this is the path from which Ukraine will no longer turn, the head of state says. Reforms will enable Galicina not only to put consumer needs first but also to become a real barometer in democracy, a model for other regions of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u17	National Deputy Vasil Kravchuk, the Faction of the Fatherland instead of Michael Kossiv. Sergey Greenewsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u18	Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." On February 16, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Azarov, at a meeting of the government, stressed the creation of working groups to quickly resolve the lending of farmers for mineral fertilizers, the supply of 100,000 tons of diesel, and 60,000 tons of petrol for spring agrarians at tax prices. By the way, that's only 20 percent of the need. But the spring-field work had already begun, although Azarov had stressed at this meeting that there would be no traditional sudden spring arrival. And there is no State aid for farmers today. Inflation affected the village more than anyone. The agricultural fund for the Forward does not buy agricultural produce from peasants, only to start collecting applications. Banks practically don't give credit. There's no pollen. Today, a ton of ammonia saltpeter costs 3,000,400 dollars. That's one and a half times that last year. There is also no promising fuel, but there are about 11,000 bracelets of diesel at the gas stations. How do you do the spring-field work at the right time and quality? Minegropolitics and food, instead of developing a specific national food security programme for the State, send a telexogram to the region in January 2011 indicating how many hectares and what cultures a region should sow. But they don't say where to take the seeds, where to take the money and other material and technical resources for the spring. Once again, breaking all laws and common sense involves administrative resources and dictates what, where, and when to sow. What is the age of experience? I believe that the government of Azarov is implementing a programme, not a development programme, but a collapse of agriculture in Ukraine. Conditions are being created for those who own 100,000 acres [100,000 ha] of land and more. What do these latifundists grow? First of all, export-oriented crops: rape, sunflower, corn. These cultures abroad can be sold much more expensive than in their own country. They don't care about the fate of the village. And most of them have not lived in Ukraine for a long time. And we're wondering why we have a Greek deficit today, peas, potatoes? Why Are Villages Extinction? The price in the markets today for cabbage is 14-15 bracelets, potatoes - 6-7 bracelets, not to mention a Greek whose price is 20 bracelets per kilogram and above. These low-profit cultures and their so - called investors don't do what most of them don't do. And that's why we're buying these food products overseas. And that's by our beautiful land. Although the current authority on the Ukrainian countries is already building its own plans. The government is actively preparing a package of laws on the sale of land, not realizing that with the sale of land, the village is doomed to extinction. I'm talking to the government, come on! Do not trade what our grandparents gave their lives for, for the people of Ukraine will not forgive you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u19	Sergey Greenewic Faction of the People's Party. The next one will be Stanislaw Arzewittin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u20	Sergey Greenewecki, faction of the People's Party. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Any reform in the state has its ultimate goal of improving the welfare of citizens, which is guaranteed not only by decent pay but also by health. The average Ukrainian lives less than the average European. The reason for this is not only the intensification of work and the decline in access to health services but also the significant deterioration in the environmental situation. Inadequate drinking water and air pollution are weapons of slow action. The worst thing about this situation is that we are self-involved, and sometimes simply by criminal farming, we are destroying our own recreational potential, and then we are surprised that in the international tourist rating, Ukraine has 85 seats between Namibia and Guatemala. A clear example is the situation surrounding the Kuyalnicke Lyman. It is known to have a unique natural potential and is the main resource base of the resort sector of the Odessa region. It is also one of the oldest dirty resorts in Ukraine since 1834. The curative value of the Sulfide mud and the oil of the Kuyalnicke Lyman is recognized worldwide. Scientists estimate that the supply of mud is estimated at about $7 and a half billion. The inhabitants of the SND countries, in any case those with material capabilities, are going to the Dead Sea, while Ukraine has its own no worse resort. Today, we are risking losing this wealth because of the crisis of the Kuyalnickian liman and the rivers of its swimming pool. Catastrophe saltiness, water and depth decreases can lead to a complete extinction. This is also due to increased anthropogenic exertion. Today, there is a need for a national programme for balanced development of areas around the Odessa region of Kuyalnick, Hadjibei, Dofiny, and Grigorov. It's not a regional problem, it's a national problem. It is a unique ecosystem, a sector capable of bringing millions of dollars into the budgets of all levels, and finally the health of the nation. But before we develop, we need to save ourselves. Without immediate action by the State, the situation cannot be rectified. I asked the MP about the announcement of the Kuyalnicka liman as a zone of an extremely ecological disaster. In response, however, he received a letter from the government. Taking this opportunity, I would like again to draw the attention of the public, the government, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, which, by the way, has been appointed the curator of the Odessa Region by the Cabinet of Ministers, to the situation surrounding the Kualnicki Lima, and I call for joint action to be taken to rescue him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u21	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Alexei will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u22	Dear compatriots, 72 years ago, on March 15-16, 1939, events in the city of Husti on Zakarpata rocked all over Europe. The Carpathian fair, which was voted for by 96 percent of the population, was declared by President Augustine Volosin to be an independent Ukrainian state, the Carpathian Ukraine. Under constitutional law, the number one MPs of Parliament unanimously approved, and I quote, "The name of the State is Carpathian Ukraine. The national language is the English language. The color of the State Flag is blue and yellow. The national coat of arms is Trident. The state anthem of Carpathian Ukraine is "It has not yet died of Ukraine. ".. At the time when the Seismic MPs proclaimed this text of the Constitutional Law on the Independence of the Carpathian Ukraine, the young Ukrainian army of the National Defence of Carpathian City, a few decades away from its capital, heroically defended the newly declared Ukrainian State against the Hungarian occupation. Several hundred Scythians, seminarians, and gymnasts in the Red Field in the area of Hust were repeating the feat of Ukrainian scythes. The defenders of the Carpathian Ukraine made the first military resistance in Europe to Hungarian-Fashist invaders at the beginning of World War II. And this happened on March 15-16, 1939. European countries knew that Carpathian Ukraine was becoming a new Pyement, that is, the beginning of the creation of an independent Ukraine, the beginning of the unification of Ukrainian lands, and therefore Germany, Poland, Romania, and other countries felt that it would be better if this great Ukrainian embryo were in the hands of the Madyans. Romania's Romanian newspaper "Romania" on March 23, 1939, in an article entitled "Liscarian Struggle in Defence of Homeland", describing the terrible conditions in which the armies of the Carpathian Ukraine had to fight, defend their homeland, wrote: "On the one hand were well-armed Hungarian military, Hungarian partisans, on the other, Czechs, on the third, Polish terrorists." The retinas did not even have their own weapons, and it had to be acquired. In these circumstances, fighting is a real heroism. The last commander-in-chief of the Carpathian Ukraine, Kolodinsky Mikhailo, in the course of his assault before the shooting, responded to Hungarian executioners: there is no word in the dictionary of the Carpathian Sicily. In the ranks of the young army of Carpathian Ukraine, there were many volunteers from all parts of the Ukrainian land, testifying to the organic belongings of the silver Carpathian land to Ukraine, the sovereignty and immortality of the very idea of the independence and overthrow of the Ukrainian state. Praise to all Ukrainians, creators of events related to the proclamation and defence of the Carpathian Ukraine! Thank you to my countrymen for putting their heads in the future independence of our nation! Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u23	Igor Alexeyev, Communist faction. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! On 17 March 2011, the twentieth anniversary of the 1991 Allied Referendum and the all-Ukrainian survey on the treatment of the Allied State were held. A general vote was put to the question: "Do you consider it necessary to retain the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics as an updated federation of equal, sovereign republics in which the rights and freedoms of any nationality of “yes” or “no” will be fully guaranteed. 83.5 per cent of eligible voters and 70.2 that is, qualified majority responded in favour of maintaining the updated USSR in the Ukrainian USSR. At the same time, the Supreme Council of the USSR decided to conduct a republican survey, which included the following question in the bulletin: “Do you agree that Ukraine should be part of the Union of Soviet Sovereign States on the basis of the Declaration on State sovereignty of Ukraine, “yes” or “no”? 83.48 per cent replied to this question by “yes” of 80, 17 per cent of citizens, i.e. 66.92 per cent of citizens with voting rights. Unfortunately, during this period when Western Europe was united, under the pressure of an aggressive nationalist minority, we broke our alliances alive, which was certainly contrary to our national interests. The subsequent unlawful signing of the Belovjeg Agreement on the Cessation of the USSR and the establishment of the CIS have allowed capitalist relations to be restored, to break the historic unity of the people of Ukraine with the brotherly peoples, with which outstanding results have been achieved in the economy, science, culture that allowed Ukraine to enter the ten most developed countries of the world, to distort the truth of history. The past 20 years have led to tragic consequences for the people of the former USSR, as evidenced by an integrated population reduction of 6 million, including Ukraine. The reality of everyday life has been the widespread destruction of industrial agricultural production, deindustrialization, 80-90 per cent of infrastructure, which we are not only able to upgrade today, but even maintain at the right level. Ukraine has entered the policy and economic crisis. By standard of living – 83rd place, macroeconomic stability – 106th place, etc. Thus, two decades after the violent destruction of the Soviet Union by various sociological measures at the end of 2010, about 46 per cent of the population regretted the loss of the country. In view of the above, I would like to mention on behalf of my comrades, once again, that the Compartia of Ukraine, on the basis of Ukraine's national interests, has advocated and advocated fraternal alliances with all countries, and on the basis of this withdrawal from the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u26	The Supreme Council of Ukraine in this situation is simply obliged to exercise political will and reaffirm its decision to enter Ukraine into a single economic space with the Russian Federation, Belarus, Kazakhstan and the President and the Government to implement this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u27	Thank you. Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "Fathership". Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u28	Dearly beloved, our many-suffering inkworms! Within hours in this room, you will hear, on the one hand, the cries and groanings of the long - suffering blacks and liquidators and the victims of the first, second, and third generations. And on the other hand, you're going to hear a fanfare bell of power that there's nothing normal in the state, there's no inflation, there's nothing to be indexed, and there's no need for black people to live much better than anyone on this Ukrainian land where power's long gone into Greece, and that's why we don't have Greek anymore. So the first problem that is. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much want you to know that I am the first head of this panel of Chernobyl, which is now called the committees, and I want to explain to you that by the time we are 25 years old, the death of Chernobyl laws is actually over. You can throw away and forget that they exist. There's not a penny in your budget. Moreover, the authorities have come to such cynicism that today there are letters sent to the places that if a black man submits to a trial, and of course he has to win the court for not receiving any payments, and he wins the court on an elementary basis, given instructions not to pay them money, but to appeal. And this poor black man or a blacksmith should go to, let's say, a court in another area. There is once again a positive decision, but there is an indication that the appeal is even higher. That is, a person is launched in this vicious circle, and he can walk until the last day and not get a penny of power. And because of that, once again, by the 25th anniversary of the Party of Regions, the most respected black people had prepared themselves for the best. You're completely free now, and there's no problem. The second question that I have to say today. We have to admit, and I think that, and I call to this and the Party of Regions, and that most of the carcased and not carved, we have to admit that today's 30-mile zone is a black hole, where they're disappearing, there's an untraceable disappearance of the millions of dollars and donations that we're going abroad, and our relatives from our sorry budget, where the mouse has been running for a long time and they can't find anything to eat. That's why it's a really bad total trend that we've taken. Today we want to build a second sarcophagus over what it is, and the Americans, where there was a similar disaster in Trimile Island, and now in Japan something like this is happening, they've done a long time ago a green sea, they're just. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We have a scientist today, Kinderevich his last name, I've talked about this many times, listen to this man. It shortens the period of decay of those elements that are there, reduces by tens, hundreds of times. Listen to this man, because in a few weeks, he's going to have Americans buy his project. Make sure that you do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches by the national deputies have been completed. With regard to the proposals made in the statements made by the National Deputies, I ask the Secretariat to prepare the relevant assignments, especially the proposal made by Ivan Alexandrovich Rabbit on the need for the creation of the National Cultural Museum of Ukrainian Polissy. We must leave at least a spiritual inheritance for future generations. And I am again addressing the distinguished national MPs. Today, at 3 p.m., parliamentary hearings will begin on the Chernobyl theme. I would ask that during the parliamentary hearing there be no politics that we had today during the speeches of the national deputies in the session room. Because it's not today's problem, it's not today's government, it's not yesterday's government, it's a 1986 problem that's gonna stay with us forever and ever. And we need to do everything we can to soften, to reduce the consequences of this catastrophe. Of course, by engaging the international community in these activities. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to Wednesday's issues. A draft Ordinance on the need to stop violations by officials of law enforcement agencies and central executives of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens who have been arrested or detained after they have gone to Midan Independence in Kiev for the purpose of protecting the constitutional rights of small and medium-sized enterprises. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine Oleg Valeriyovich Ljasko. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Law Protection Activities of Vladimir Mikolajovic Stretović.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u30	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I object. Under the Rules, if the author denies it, you are not entitled to a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, please, please! Dear colleagues, please don't manipulate the Rules. If there's a proposal for a reduced procedure, it's going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u32	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I object.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u33	I'm putting her to the vote. Given what the author denies. [[10:40:36]] For 239. Decision taken. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u34	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, for allowing society to listen to Parliament defend the interests of its citizens. I want to remind those who are sitting here, they're comfortable, they usually have most of the people who are in this room, they don't have problems: no financial, no material, no morals. Most of those who vote now certainly do not have morals. Because now that you're sitting in these chairs, the Bank's people are starving, and they're starving because of your work, because you've adopted the Tax Code, which has raised the whole country's ears, which has forced millions of people to go out and protect their right to life, to secure their families, to work. Your president stopped you from coming to Maidan Independence in Kiev on November 27th to admit a mistake by vetoing the Tax Code, which you are in haste here, so, without taking any arguments, you voted in this room as you are now considering this draft ruling. And after you've taken the President's proposals into account, you've adopted a different codex, and people who dare to go out and say everything they think about you are in prison today. Today, there are suspects accused of criminal acts. That's why I'm proposing, obviously, that this draft decision will not be supported. Unfortunately, today's Parliament, the majority of Parliament's, does not represent people's interests. They're hopelessly distant from people, they've forgotten what people's interests are and how they need to be defended. And the only thing they stand for is their own interests. When it comes to continuing our mandate or the President's, they vote. When it comes to lobbying laws that allow you to make a few billion dollars in a day without sitting down or trying too hard, they vote. When it comes to protecting the interests of the poor, no one votes for it. When it comes to protecting the interests of those who receive 950 dollars of pension and a thousand dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u35	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u36	who receive 950 dollars of pension and a thousand dollars of municipal payments are to be paid, so Parliament does not vote. When you have to think about why the country is going to the default, billions of dollars of debt have been raised, it doesn't vote. Well, I hope people stop you one day.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u38	You'll be in trouble, remember the words.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u39	Thank you. Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stretovic, deputy head of the committee, please. The committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting discussed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to stop violations by officials of law enforcement agencies, the leaders of central executive authorities, the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens who have been arrested, or detained after the taxation of Majdan, so-called. Registration is 7538. The committee supported the initiative of the author of the draft decree of the national deputy Láška and recommended that it be accepted as a whole. In adopting such a decision, members of the committee came from the firm tendency in Ukraine to politicize the activities of law enforcement agencies. Indivisible is the fact that rather than professionally engage in the prevention and detection of crimes, protecting the rights and freedoms of a person and a citizen, law enforcement officials are violating them themselves. We are concerned that internal affairs agencies and prosecutors have for decades not uncovered serious crimes, such as the killings of children in the Winnicki region whose parents have been forced to take care of them, rallying because they have lost the most expensive, and law enforcement officials have concluded that they are not giving them an answer that they are stopping their correspondence on this matter. That's it. The crime hasn't been solved, the killers haven't been punished, they've stopped texting today, and tomorrow what? Are parents forbidden to gather together to defend their legal requirements? Or another example is the murder of children in Crimea, in Sevastopol. While children were being raped and killed, police officers from the lowest police officer to the minister were persuading the public and the parents that the children were playing somewhere, that there was no reason for the noise, and the children would soon be found. The days went by, the children were not found, and the police were not responding, and effective operational search measures were not carried out. The result is that while high - ranking militias were instilling people, criminals were playing children, raping them, and eventually killing them. Regrettably, there are many examples of law - enforcement inaction and indifference to the protection of human rights and freedoms. A clear example is the arrest and detention of citizens after they went to Midan Independence in the capital to protect constitutional rights. Five seconds! I would like to stress that the protection of the right to work, the entrepreneurial activities of Ukrainian citizens who. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u42	who have been forced to take advantage of their right to meet peacefully, without weapons, to hold meetings, rallyings, marches, demonstrations, which are notified in advance by the executive authorities given to them by article 39 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The constitutional right of citizens must be implemented. It is suggested that the draft decision be supported, that it be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u43	Yes, Your Honor, please sign up for this statement. Names of the national MPs, please. Roman Zabzaluk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u44	Pudou.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u45	Who are you giving it to? People's MP Pudov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u46	Respectable samples, respectable colleagues! What is done against those who protest against the animal laws of the Tax Code that exercise their constitutional law is a disgrace! This, however, is the animal's point of view of the power that does not wish to be considered with the opinion of its citizens. It is a disgrace to the country, first of all, to the President as a guarantor of the constitutional rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, who, as at the start of those protests, has now been distanced from showing up in white as an arbitrator and resolving the problems that have arisen there. So what do you say? Once again, the Byzantine policy is in practice. What's the point? It is simple: then we meet people, and today the back count, when protests are quieted, and when the shaking of the power that was at the time has fallen slightly, the fear of these protests and the spread of the tide are beginning to reach people. But you know very well that nothing in common there, the damaged tile has nothing to do with what's going on with these people. But it's not just the president's fault. The guilt, you'll see, and our Attorney General's Office, which has been firmly removed from control of the actions of this body, which is now called the police. But I've always said, in my last article in "The Head," that we don't have the militia, that we have the ISG that's in the road fight. By the way, they're already trying to raise money from their own deputies. Those who engage in the racket against small traders who close, open for business and so on. Why can't we see that? Yeah, they're trying to change names in Russia. We don't have a name. You're well aware that this whole ship, sorry, has become extremely politicized and politicized today because it wants to get indulgence for all its transgressions. So what about the current minister, when the previous one wasn't better? Who grew up very quickly and yet to set things right there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u47	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u48	I don't know how to end it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u49	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next up will be Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u50	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, I remember what happened back in the early '90s. There was a student hunger that had triumphantly ended. And then the first leaders of the state came to Midan and said, "Your powers are completely legitimate, we don't agree with everything, but since they are legitimate, there will be no persecution after the action." The month went by and a mass of criminal cases opened up for virtually all those who actively participated in the events. Now, 20 years later, the same situation with the "tax Majdan" was said by Yanukovich and Azarov, "What are your legitimate demands, gentlemen entrepreneurs. Come on, let's clean up the Tax Code." The stage was quiet, and some concession was made to entrepreneurs, and dozens and dozens of criminal cases were discovered. And now the police say, "Oh, no, we're not stalking anyone, unless we're violators of public peace and order." And we have letters, and if we take all the factions and all the deputies who receive these letters, they're already hundreds of entrepreneurs, not only for whom open criminal cases are open, but for whom they come to the market, or at their point of trade, or they come and promise to come and they're just for conversation. On a scale of the country, they're thousands of people. So it's just a procedure to intimidate those who protect their own business, jobs, and, by the way, money into the budget of the Ukrainian state. So I call on all of these entrepreneurs, so let's put together a register of these thousands of small entrepreneurs that were called up to talk in law enforcement, and the police and the prosecutor's office here, we'll read out all these names at the next meeting, so there's no one who wants to pretend that there's no persecution of the taxpayers of Midian. Then the world will see the value of the words of the high - ranking men who then visited Midan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u51	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Taras Cnerwell will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u52	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Let's figure out which Ukraine we want to build. I do not know how the right part of the hall is, and the Party of the Regions, which is the flesh of its people, is building a free, democratic, prosperous Ukraine of a European type. For European States, there are two principles: freedom of speech and the principle of separation of powers. With regard to freedom of speech, today you will not see a television channel that you will not open — a criticism of power everywhere. That's good, that says that freedom of speech is and we're really on track, and you support us. With regard to the principle of separation of authorities. After judicial reform, we do indeed have an independent judiciary and an independent judiciary. The MPs can't take the judges for nothing anymore, yes, we've been taking the judges with you before, and now we're not, we've cut the politicians off from the influence of the judges. So today we have three independent branches of power: parliamentary, executive, judicial. [[Legislature]] Everyone has to do their job. In order for the decision of the law enforcement authorities to be as objective and understandable as possible for society, policies should not interfere with the work of these structures, it is necessary to say that in the box “reck”, step aside, step aside. The leaders who lead both the judiciary and the prosecution and the police and the BSS will never allow their forces under their authority to be used as a mechanism of political repression. And the approach to assessing the violation, regardless of whether it was a demonstration or simply a person in office, or an ordinary citizen, violated something, must be viewed through the prism of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u53	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u54	I therefore propose not to press, interfere with or support the work of law enforcement agencies, which is considered prescribing as a direct intervention in the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u55	Thank you. Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u56	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, my distinguished colleagues, I propose to divide this issue into two, one, whether there is really a factor to the collapse of the forces, yes, and we see it all. Is there a fact that, with regard to tax activists, so-called Midan, inadequate actions have been applied to the very form of the deities that have taken place, which have been punished by them? This detention and detention is, in fact, completely inadequate. We all understand that very well. But the people who are trying to speculate on this case today, I think they're doing a very bad service to the same tax-majdan activists. And it's very clear that the author of the decision is a person who, knowing its provocativeness, the entrepreneurs themselves -- the participants of Maidan -- were thrown off the stage. Today, once again, they realized that it would be only for their own harm if this person acted there. Today, the same person again harms the activists of that Maidan with his own. with the system, with the text of the decree and the manner in which it is provocative, it is demonstrated. I would advise these people not to face you personally, which the Maydan participants themselves did not want to see there. I have another question when the court asked a number of Ukrainian national MPs that they were willing to take on behalf of these people who were being held in custody now, in my opinion, completely inadequately kept in custody, according to data from Ukrainian independent agencies, that these politicians themselves did not come to court, they did not want to be supported there. What was done solely to show that the media would be enlightened? So I propose that each of us write an individual appeal to the prosecutor's office asking to withdraw the decision of the prosecutor's office and bring him to trial for custody. But in parallel, we do not vote in favour of a provocative decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u57	Yes, Oleg Zarubinsky, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! The politicization of law enforcement is a bad thing, both today and a year ago and three years ago. But I wanted to go against another when legislative initiatives are a desire to pry and speculate on people who are really bad. You know, when the subject of a legislative initiative where there's no brand where there's no place to put a very dark biography, he's trying to throw dirt on everyone who's in the hall -- a Skopje called the band -- it's very strange to see and see as not being honest. And I think that the legislative initiatives don't have to be an instrument of pyari, because often it's so thick that the main thing for the author is just a name, and there's no meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. We've completed our consideration of the issue, if there's a problem, to us. Surname. Well, they didn't name names, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. If there is a problem, we obviously need to deal with it. I will now put to the vote a draft ruling. If he's not accepted, then on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I'll contact the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to provide complete information on this matter. And after that. Now, one minute. And then, obviously, we can figure out what to do next. I only have one request, one request. Dear fellow workers, when we speak, let us observe the elementary order. I call one of the people's deputies who used those words about the entire militia: "this whole ship." Obviously, each measure according to his or her own standards. But the guard who stands, the postman, the militiaman at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, what do we have to call him "arms"? This is a person who has no culture at all and is not worthy to be a national deputy of Ukraine can claim that. [[Applause]] The problem is, we all know her. But not all people can be blown. No one will respect us and treat us as a state. Perhaps we should come to work and take a conscience with us. Deputy Minister, please, on this occasion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u60	Thank you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to assure you that three criminal cases were actually committed last November. One of them is closed under article 6, paragraph 2, in the absence of a criminal element. Another criminal case where a particular bank’s car was damaged, the attraction to criminal responsibility, and since December 17 this case has been referred to the court under article 194. And she remained in the lead of the city of Kiev’s current investigative administration, one criminal case involving seven people. There's one person under the guard. We're studying the case now. We'll figure it out by the end of the month. And I think we're going to give a proper assessment because it was a test at the time. Now the more criminal cases you're talking about, the tens, there weren't, there were only three, there was only one. By the end of March, we will have a comprehensive answer and will deal with those whom we have called to account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u61	Thank you. At the same time, respected colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u62	This estimate is based on what we collected during the pretrial investigation. I'm very tolerant of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u63	I'm asking you, let's not get into a fight. Dear colleagues, however, I think that today we will form an address, I will sign it, to the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to provide comprehensive information about what was and what is at the moment. And we'll get people's deputies to know them. Now, dear fellows, may I have your attention? I put to the vote a draft ruling, which the committee recommends to adopt. The committee believes that a decision can be taken in general. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Decision on the need to stop violations by officials of law enforcement agencies and central executives of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens who have been arrested or detained after they have gone to Midan Independence in Kiev to protect the constitutional rights of small and medium-sized enterprises. Please make up your mind, Your Honor. [[11:01:10]] For-119 The decision is not taken. I'll be there in a minute. The factions? Yes, please, by the factions. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 67, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 45, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, National Party – 0, non-fractional – 5. I'm going to put the draft regulation to the vote as a basis. Based on the base. Registration number 7538. Please identify yourself. [[11:01:52]] For-119 The decision is not taken. The draft decision was rejected. Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On behalf of the faction, I would like to apologize to our militia's multi-million-dollar militia for the incorrect expressions allowed by our deputy during the performance. I think it was just a burst of emotion that wasn't beneath it, it shouldn't have had a great effect, because our apology on behalf of the faction should disabuse what was said. And once again we apologize to the multi-million-dollar militia, where there are so many decent and conscientious people working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I'm explaining to Oleg Lacia that there's no motive. And the fact that you will or will not criticize me is your legal right. Please don't speculate. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Taxation in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on Tax Police Services]] [[Registration number 6326]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. Correspondents are the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Pinchuk, as well as Victor Schemchuk of the Committee on Law Enforcement, will speak from the committee. The proposal is to consider this issue in a simplified way. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't mind. I'm voting on this proposal. The author denies it. Please vote. [[11:03:58]] For the 220. Decision taken. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary colleagues, Bill 6326, submitted by me and the Ukrainian national deputy Kožemykin, are called upon to regulate the arrangements for the service of state tax police officers in cases where they are transferred to so - called civilian positions in the state tax service. I want to remind you that by 2008, there was order when the persons in question, without depriving them of their full powers as law enforcement officers, were transferred to, what are called, civilian offices in the State Tax Administration. I mean, the generals of the tax police, the tax officers of the tax police led the appropriate district, city, district, state tax service, but they remained generals, the colonels of the tax police. In 2008, the Cabinet of Ministers stopped this practice, I think, from being a very good practice, but unfortunately, in 2010, the Cabinet of Ministers restored these possibilities and, according to our data, about a hundred people today are using all the benefits, special benefits and other preferences, in what is now called civilian offices. It should be noted that the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is proposed to the Supreme Council for the results of the first reading of this bill to be adopted as a basis. Without essentially denying this bill and this way of solving the problem, the profile committee proposes to reject it, because it seems that this issue should be resolved in a comprehensive Law on State Taxation. Indeed, this issue needs and needs to be addressed in a comprehensive bill, but without voting in favour of the bill, we will have a situation where for a long time, from today to the time of adoption of the Law on State Taxation, this issue will not be settled. Today, it is estimated that several million dollars are spent on that difference in compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u67	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u68	A few million dollars are spent on compensating the benefits to those who, in fact, do not perform law enforcement functions without the cooperation of law enforcement agencies, receive special benefits and preferences while in civilian positions within the framework of the Ukrainian State Tax Service. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u69	Yes, Sergey Volodymyrovich, thank you, too. Andrew Pavlovich Pinchuk, please, from the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u70	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 1 March 2010 reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Tax Service in Ukraine (for tax police services), submitted on 20.04. In 2010, the National Deputies Vlasenko and Kožemiakin at registration number 6326. The purpose of the bill, as indicated in the explanatory note to the draft, is to improve the conditions for service to be carried out by the persons of the primary tax police, the Ukrainian State tax service, and to reduce the cost of the State budget for the maintenance of these organs. The bill proposes to supplement article 24 of the Ukrainian Act on State Taxation in Ukraine with such new provisions, paragraph three: "It is forbidden to transfer persons of the primary tax police force to the positions of civil servants, other structural units of the public tax authorities, leaving them in the personnel of the tax police. In the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the bill is not supported because the transfer of persons in charge of the tax police to the positions of civil servants of other structural units, leaving them in the personnel of the tax police, allows for the preservation of qualified personnel of the tax police, facilitates the use of their experience, strengthens the staff capacity of the public tax authorities. According to the Ukrainian State Tax Service, the number of persons transferred to the head of the tax police for the positions of civil servants of other structural units of the tax service, leaving them in tax police personnel as of December 2010, stands at 45. While the number for December 2008 was about 200. That is to say, at the present time, the proposed transfer of tax police personnel is carried out only if necessary and with the aim of strengthening the staff capacity to ensure the quality of the public tax authorities’ tasks. This indicates a significant reduction in the number of translations given, their nonsystemic and unsustainable nature.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u71	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u72	on the inadmissibility of implementing this law for the time being, because the Law on State Taxation in Ukraine is being prepared. In view of what has been said, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u73	Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk of the Committee on Law Enforcement, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft law provides for the addition of article 24 of the Ukrainian Act on State Taxation in Ukraine by paragraph 3 of the following content, which prohibits the transfer of persons in charge of the tax police to the positions of civil servants of other structural units of the public tax service, leaving them in the personnel of the tax police. According to the Committee on Legislative Security, Bill 6326 can be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will support the project and propose to accept it as a basis. Yes, officials of the tax police who have been transferred to the positions of government officials of other structural units of the Ukrainian State Tax Service, leaving them in the personnel of the tax police, without having to perform functions directly related to the law enforcement of the tax police, are entitled to all special benefits and other preferences provided by Ukraine’s existing law enforcement legislation, seniority of years, the right to special financial security, the following special titles, and so on. In this regard, the financial security of such persons exceeds the salaries of government officials working in similar positions and also does not perform functions directly related to the law enforcement of the tax police. The Tax and Customs Policy Committee proposes bill 6326 to reject the fact that the number of such persons is small, but it varies between 45 and 200 leaders. At the same time, the situation is not taken into account that the economy of the State Revenue Fund may cost as much as 3 million dollars in the replacement of government officials. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement made a proposal for a recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading of draft Law 6326, which was adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u75	Yes. Dear colleagues, the official report and the report have been completed, please sign up for the discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u76	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The point is, when we look at this issue in a broader way, we have, in the course of optimism and other things that can be called contractions, hospitals are shrinking, schools are closing down, other social objects, and, somehow, those who are not so poor can today, with the preservation of all regals and statuses, walk around different state institutions and absolutely no consequences, as they say. And they don't think about something that needs saving. Actually, I never have. was not the one who opposed any force structures, as he is a representative, and himself in the past, a force structure. But if there is a forerunner, it is a forerunner. That, by the way, and the moment you can save money and send it really to social programs. And when we speak even more broadly, is there a need for a structure that is a structure in the structure, as in the tax system, still taxed by the police? Last time and when there was power, there was opposition, many times raised questions, including from the left wing about it. That such an institution is said not to be necessary at all. It's all going backwards. So I still think that the bill needs to be supported, at least in this aspect, that we can't move on with the preservation of all its general positions there, and so on, and so on, and clearly then think about how we're going to optimize that structure. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u77	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Next up will be Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a perfectly correct proposal is being made today by our colleague. I was present in this room when the tax police were formed, and when the question was asked several times whether it should be eliminated or not to be eliminated. You don't have to get rid of it -- you need it to work effectively. But in order for it to work effectively, its co-workers have nowhere to go, including, I am now addressing the leadership of the government and the President of Ukraine, that the decree of March 17, 2010, which restored paragraph 3 of the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance of October 30, 1998 No.1716 "On the conduct of the service of the persons of the primary tax police and their calculation of the benefits of the years, the appointment and payment of pensions and financial assistance" has to be cancelled. It has to be cancelled because we're looking for a penny where we retire. And we understand very well that going through and doing police and civil service is two big differences. This law must be adopted. And I think it should be in the interests of both today and most, because you're looking for every penny today. And I'm convinced that the conclusion that came from science and expertise today is that "translation is not justified because it militarizes relationships in the civil service." [[quote]] I repeat, this is what I quoted the expert's conclusion. And that's the right conclusion. As a result, let us accept in the first reading. And I think the government and the president are going to listen to these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u79	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The purpose of the bill, as noted in the Explanatory Note to the Bill, is to improve the order and conditions of service of the persons in charge of the tax police of the State tax administration of Ukraine, to demilitarize the authorities of the State tax service, and to reduce the costs of the State budget for the maintenance of these organs, in particular to supplement article 24 of the Law on State Tax Services with a new position, paragraph third, which prohibits the transfer of persons of the primary tax police force to the positions of civil servants of other structural units, the authorities of the State tax service, leaving them in tax militia personnel. Dear colleagues, I don't know what kind of Ukraine we want to build. On the one hand, we speak for democracy, and on the other hand, we speak for human rights, but with the same success, it was possible to prohibit General de Gaulle from becoming President of France, but the people of France were better elected you and General de Gaulle. With the same success the military pilot and CIA leader Bush couldn't be president of the United States, and the people of America are smarter than you have chosen, it's one of the best. With the same success, Colonel KGB couldn't become President of Russia, and the people of Russia are smarter than you have chosen him, he's one of the best presidents. So let's not be surprised, let's not limit the rights of the people and of the oscoprof. Highly trained skilled personnel should be used and implemented as much as possible in governance, public administration. And spreading these images is just not going to be state-of-the-art. In this situation, the law makes absolutely no sense; it is not necessary. Not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u81	Valerius Ananiyovich Beavez, one minute, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, well, I'm listening and it seems that we're not so much in the Supreme Council's session hall as the legislative body of our state, but more in the market, more in the market. What is the subject? Just listen to what we're talking about. The appointment of government officials and the remainder of the tax police is non-systemic, unsustainable, and a small number are being transferred. And that's why you can, in principle, and everyone can be where Golami is. Well, the funny thing is, we're breaking the law, we're breaking it. And that's why I think this bill needs to be supported and we need to fight these phenomena actively if we want to be called the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. The Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement proposes a decision, the Committee on Finance and Banking of Tax and Customs Policy proposes to reject the bill, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that the bill can be adopted on a basis. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Taxation in Ukraine, registration number 6326. [[on Tax Police Services]] [[11:20:21]] For-92 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: Regional Party – 0, “BUT – Fatherland” – 63, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 24, Communists – 2, “Reforms for the Future” – 0, National Party – 0, non-fractional – 3. I'm betting on a second motion for re-reading the draft Law. [[Registration number 6326]] Let's do it again. [[11:21:00]] For-80 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no motive. Dear colleagues, when I summed up the question, the first one we discussed was Oleg Laska's last name. Well, according to the Rules, he has no right to reprise, so I'm late to give in order to comply with the Rules. I called it a last name, I'm afraid. I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u84	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! You're so good! If you were just as kind to millions of people who live in our country and who expect you to take concrete action to protect them. You know, Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is this famous saying: The one who laughs is the one who laughs last. So I'm afraid you're laughing at our activities and people are crying. And they. Ukrainians have unlimited patience, but one day it will end. And they're going to ask everyone and those clowns who break up and tell them that the flesh of the flesh is their national. You'd see, you'd come, you'd go home to your neighbor, he'd put a bill in your nose and tell you what kind of folk party you are, and how to pay him where to get the money. And as you raise your pensions here, you tell them, wages that are not enough for a piece of bread. Vladimir Mikhailovich, today is a country in such a situation that it is not time for us to laugh, but it is time for us to work and work hard. It's not 10 a.m. that you go out and say good morning. Normal people get up at 5:00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u85	Dear National MPs, we have heard one of the crazy national laborers speak, and we will draw an appropriate conclusion from this. Let us not engage in blasphemy in the Supreme Council. This reminds us of Saltykov-Schedrin: when he sits at the table and mentions the people. Let's not talk about that. Ladies and gentlemen, I also assumed another error: I did not make an announcement at the morning session. I'm late, but I have to do it. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and in accordance with personal claims made, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Mr. Glossy Stepan Karlovich, Mr. Feldman Alexander Borisovich, Mr. Yatzenk Anton Volodymirovich, as part of the Party of the Regions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, we are now under way. May I have your attention, please? A draft Act amending article 166-5 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences is being announced for consideration. [[on the protection of bank deposits]] Registration number 4404. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Andry Mihajlovich Pavlovski. Correspondent: Head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Law Enforcement of Jury Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u86	By full procedure, please, a serious social issue. It should be considered in full procedure. Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! I, Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland", bring to your attention a bill aimed at protecting the bank contribution of our citizens. Because they suffer the most from misuses in the banking sphere by low-income citizens, small investors, small deposits owners, especially pensioners, who create serious life problems for them, especially today, when food prices are increasing substantially, at the same time, on residential tariffs, and they have massive facts when people don't have their blood, labor, and they don't pay back on time, not even when they take these contributions on time. And each of us, a national MP, in their activities, are confronted by the fact that hundreds of ordinary people are addressing him with complaints that, not what's in the past, or even when they're out of time, they're not getting their deposits back, according to the contract, their deposits, they're forcing customers to continue their investment. And I would like to give you an example of my MP activity. Last year, I was approached by a retired 80-year-old woman who, just think! During the year, Nadra was unable to withdraw its bank contribution of a thousand dollars. And it was only after my personal intervention that the bank's management called that poor woman that issued that amount. It's a shame! And so in general, all over Ukraine, there are mostly socially unprotected levels of the population: pensioners, disabled persons, from this, with the permission to say, the banking system. And therefore, given that the managers of banking and financial credit institutions actually feel their full impunity, in relation to their customers, small investors, and there is a massive breach of legislation, there are mass cases where customers are forced to continue their contracts, investments. Therefore, the need to protect our ordinary citizens' bank deposits and to increase the responsibility of officials, bank managers, financial and credit institutions for violating the terms of the banking agreement, effective legislation and the timely issuance of bank contributions has become apparent. The proposed bill proposes to amend article 166 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, namely to strengthen the responsibility of officials of credit institutions in the event of a breach of the terms of the bank contract, which entails the timely issuance of a bank contribution, to strengthen this administrative responsibility, i.e. fines, ten times. Because for wealthy rich bankers, a fine of 50 untaxed minimums, they're going to give you ten of those fines just to keep from making deposits, the labor money of our ordinary citizens. The adoption of the proposed Law on the Protection of Banking Contributions will guarantee the inescapable implementation of bank deposits by banking and credit institutions in connection with the increased responsibility of their managers for the illegal timely issuance of bank contributions. This increase in responsibility will provide an additional guarantee for the return of bank deposits and will increase the confidence of citizens in a banking system that is not actually in place right now, let's face it, no trust. This issue needs to be corrected, including by increasing the responsibility of bank managers to their customers. And then we have this one-sided responsibility that especially small customers don't actually have any rights, they're unfair to a huge, big financial capital that has really expensive lawyers. And a simple person who has deposits, like that grandmother, in a thousand dollars, realizes that she can't hire a lawyer for a thousand dollars to sue unscrupulous bankers. And so increasing that responsibility will provide an additional guarantee for the return of bank deposits, thus avoiding the social shocks caused by the fraud of investors. And all of us national deputies are witnesses to the mass facts when people are poor -- days and nights before unscrupulous financial institutions, taking care of and begging for their last copies. And I hope that this law will ensure proper protection for the private. Because that money is, after all, bankers forget it's private property of our citizens. And it will protect this property, and it will contribute to the timely return of bank deposits, deposits, primarily ordinary citizens, and primarily socially vulnerable people. So, knowing that there are a few comments from our analytical administration, I think that these observations are irrelevant, and they may be further developed, taken into account in the second reading. So I'm asking everyone for this socially important bill, which protects the interests, primarily our ordinary citizens, the socially vulnerable, their small bank contributions, to support. And I hope for support, including a large capital from the Party of Regions, including the communists who are with them in a well-established coalition. So once again, I ask the people's deputies to uphold this social law unanimously. I hope you have your support. And the millions of citizens who are in trouble with these bank deposits are also hoping that you will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! Question to the reporter, please. Please write that down. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u88	Your Honourable Reporter, please tell us what was the name of the Prime Minister of Ukraine when it happened with the bank "Nadra", with the bank "The Rodowd". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u89	The problems in these banking structures were also before the 2009 crisis. [[occurrence(s) of]] But the Nadra Bank belongs to the main sponsor of the Party of Regions, who doesn't know, belonged. The stock control package belonged to Mr. Firtasch, I call you the names of the owners, and the bank "Krugaz" belonged to a member of your faction, Mr. Gorbal. So let the people ask them. And Rodowod Bank belonged to a member of the Party of the Regions, Sergio Bubci. So all these banks are problematic or directly or indirectly members of the Party of Regions and people need to know who doesn't pay them back. They don't get paid back by an oligarch from the Party of Regions. You must be ashamed! Give people their money back and they'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u90	Sergey Soboljev faction "BUT is "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u91	I want to thank Mr. Popescu on purpose, if he wants to take another line, let him take the opportunity from this rostrum to announce the owners of the troubled banks in Ukraine. I am very grateful to you, Mr. Pavlovsky, for preparing such a wonderful bill. Although I am convinced that the Party of Regions that brought these banks to the pen and hid under state regulations not to give billions of dollars to our citizens. The fact that they're going to bring their businesses into the pen by not giving up their investment is a semi-wreck. But the fact that millions of our fellow citizens, because of such a policy of looting commercial banks by members of the Party of Regions that have just been announced, have actually now sworn citizens to lose their deposits. I think we can regulate this, including this legislative act. I would like the vote on this act to be printed in all newspapers, so that everyone can see, millions of investors who are hiding from paying millions of citizens. Thanks again, I don't have any questions for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u92	Thank you for your support, and I hope other factions will support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u93	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u94	Andrey Mikhailovich, it's very right that you're trying to regulate the protection of investors. The only problem is that you, I think this committee of law enforcement will say that you didn't do it before the law and that's not how you did it. And your bill has been for two years. There have been many changes during this time. If I have the opportunity to speak, I'll tell you what changes we've already adopted in the Supreme Council on this and legislatively if we were to establish these positions. Well, I was a little worried about your lineup, and you said that science and science management was kind of making a big point. Well, here's what I'm going to quote you. When the science department says that similar sizes of fines for committing these crimes look like mistreatment of citizens. And this size is not even predicted for committing different crimes. That's my question. Say, please, your sum, today's fine which and what are you offering? Name the absolute sums.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u95	Thank you for asking. Moreover, Mr. Arjewittin is one of the few decent bankers, so I am happy to answer him. You know, the abuse is the non-refundation of a bank deposit, like that grandmother I was telling, 80 years old, the size of a thousand dollars over the year when all the terms of the bank contract ended. And all over Ukraine, in every area, they're going to tell you about them. You have to have a conscience. And you know, when bankers are all usually billionaires, millionaires, what they have to pay, excuse the current norm of this fine, 50-80 untaxed minimum. I suggest you increase this tenfold. Even if the fine goes into the budget, maybe some of this money will go to social benefits for those miserable grandmothers who can't take their money. And what's more, I'm offering a fine of 500 to 800 untaxed minimums. It's not bullying, it's for a banker to go to lunch at a restaurant.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Pavlovsky, I support your efforts to put things right. Moreover, I receive countless such letters. The last letter made me angry when a 76-year-old resident of Odessa, Tucny, turned and said, "Why am I at Nadra Bank to send all my disease manuals?" -- think about it, please, people are sending out all the information about the diseases that the bank "Nadra" had calculated, and it didn't count, despite the fact that I've already written three letters. I probably don't write well. And to those who are behind these banks, who have allowed this to happen, and who doesn't want to ask the question that we're building Ukraine, I want to say that we're building a new democratic Ukraine that needs the responsibility of bankers for violating the requirements of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u98	Thank you for asking. Thank you for your support. Indeed, if we continue to claim that we are going to Europe, to European responsibility, then let our bankers and our bankers do things in a European way, they will be as responsible as they are in developed, if only our neighbours – European countries. And so, just like ordinary citizens, they are responsible. Because when a homeless child steals a bride for three bracelets, it's there for a few months at a grocery store, and when a banker steals billions, he's named Hero of Ukraine, he's elected to the Supreme Council. We need basic justice, we need to restore this justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u99	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Yeah? The focal point is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of Yuri Prokopchuk's activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u100	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland." Equality. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement was prepared in the first reading by the Ukrainian National MP Pavlovsky's draft Law on Amendments to Article 166, footnote 5 of the Code on Administrative Offences in Protection of Banking Investment. The bill proposes to amend article 166, with the reference to the Code of Administrative Offences, with the aim of increasing the liability of bank managers or other authorized persons, namely a fine of 500 to 800 untaxed minimum citizens' income for breach of the terms of the bank contribution contract. I want to say, and including a colleague who spoke earlier, I also introduced a similar bill, he listened, he didn't literally get two votes to go through there. And in order to avoid a host of other bills, although you say two years have passed, two years have passed, and the situation remains the same. Those who put their hard work into banks, including commercial ones, and those who didn’t make a sound, and those who didn’t make a sound, couldn’t make their contribution. And the situation remained the same. At the same time, the bankers, who, by the way, are getting a pension, including those who were in state institutions, are 35-40,000, and they don't want to give that working people, the same pensioners there from 1,000, 500 and so on. For them, it's a sum. Well, they'd better think. If they do not want to think about it, then we, the legislators, are obliged to oblige them. Therefore, the bill has already been finalized by the author. And the Committee on Law Enforcement found him one that could be accepted in the first reading as a basis. And whatever the scientific expert's conclusions are, the other one doesn't need to be protected, it's already my personal, let's say, as a national deputy, not just as a committee member. We don't just have to protect the interests of banks, although banks need to be thought of, because there are banks, there is financial activity and so on. But some banks, like the State Bank Savings Bank, somehow fulfil their obligations, all the other banks that are commercial don't do them. And by the way, I'm still paying attention. I was mugged yesterday by one of the banks, the ATMs that are on the Supreme Council committees, the Atmosphere, who just took the money out and wouldn't give it up. And they say two months from now, we're going to be doing some kind of investigation. By the way, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please and I ask that in a structure that is a state body, the only legislative body is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, even though they're going to install one savings ATM. That's not in the county. The nearest ATMs are in Chrystec. This is also a question, and it also applies to who and how he lobbies whose rights. All banks and the entire Supreme Council are practically to provide commercial banks to those who have card bills. Is that right? Whom do we support? Is that not corruption? Apparently so. So please support this bill and accept it as a basis. The committee supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u101	Yes, please sign up for the committee. Andrey Pavlovsky faction "BUT is the Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u102	Mr. Yuri, thank you for having made an objective report. Indeed, there have been comments on your committee on this bill. And at the request of the committee, I proposed even more fines, even more administrative punishment for unscrupulous bankers. I've taken your remarks into account, I've reduced these fines, I've reduced them, and so your committee has actually voted in its majority to support my bank deposit protection bill, to support and vote for it in the first reading. And so I ask the MPs, regardless of whether they belong to a party of great shadow capital, namely the Party of Regions, or the Communists who serve them, I ask all of them unanimously to support this socially important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u103	Well, obviously, I've already made my point. And in general, I'm addressing everyone, well, without political spectrum, I think that the bank deposits were made by both the members of the Party of Fatherland and our Party of Ukraine, as well as the members of the Party of Regions and the Communists. Those who wanted to save, or perhaps as a deposit account, to have some accounts to be certain and profit, well, it's a world practice, it's a practice that. So here, I wouldn't even share essentially citizens of one another, this is a problem that is now of the U.K. scale. And I think it's our good will, because we owe it to, we encourage bad bankers to do exactly what they're obliged to do at least, well, to do the system as it once was, after reaching a certain age, but not 90 years, so that they're still obliged to make these contributions in the first place. [[deposits]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u104	Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, there is certainly evidence of contempt and cynicism in relation to investors from banks, but let's be clear that this bill is also a form of cynicism and contempt for investors. Because it's a very simple solution: we're going to take this project, and tomorrow we're going to start the reparation. This is not true, for people hope for a more effective mechanism. I'm sure it's a cost question. So let's remember that in 2009, we sent loans to the IMF, more than 10 billion, this is the previous government in 2009. And I'll only give you one fact when one of the banks where the government was already represented was issued a loan for 100 hectares of land, the size of that loan, 3 billion dollars. Let's do some research on where these funds are, and we're going to bring responsibility to those who have disbursed the loans of the International Monetary Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u106	Thank you. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, you are also one of the members of the committee and more than the deputy knows and understands. First of all, right? At one time, when the world crisis was simply burning earth wide and, in particular, in Ukraine, the government of Timoshenko was doing everything to save the banking system. You remember when, indeed, there was even a refinancing, but it was all under control and went directly through the National Bank of Ukraine, which was headed today by a well-deserved pensioner with a large pension, Mr. Stelma, who was protected by President Yushchenko and by the representatives of those who today formed the majority, first of all, the Party of Regions, I call it objectively. So, of course, the claims have to be there. Moreover, the refinancing went away, and the owners here were announced these banks. What did they do? They moved into offshore, converting all the refinancing into offshore. We can't make a decision about Cyprus, not at all. And that's why we know where these costs are. And the owners were.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u107	Thank you. All right, time's up. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the factions. Can I have your last name? Four national deputies signed up. Let's make a statement from the factions and then, after the break, the national MPs. Tolstenko, faction of the Party of Regions, please. Well, after the break, let's sign up, dear colleagues. Come on. Tolstenko, Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u108	Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues! I think that this draft law, which has been tabled for our discussion, will not solve those human rights issues, since an increase in fines for bank employees is not the protection of investors. In my opinion, personally, I believe that the necessary systemic changes in legislation are in the sense that this is in the Civil Code 71, 72 articles, that is in the Banks and Banking Act. I believe that it is probably necessary to clarify the provision on contributions that may be prohibited through the legislative initiative, through the law introduced. Banks and Banking Act on the Unilateral Change in Contracts between Depositaries and Banks, etc. Therefore, I strongly believe that this law does not address the protection of the rights of our citizens, investors and most likely is populist. That is why I believe that this law must be sent for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u109	Sergey Sobolev, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Stanislaw Arzewityn will be next, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u110	Thank you. I would like once again to thank the drafter, Mr. Pavlovski, from this rostrum, and I would like to immediately propose to the second reading, if approved, one amendment that, in my opinion, will allow for a faster calculation with those who are actually placed under conditions of survival in such difficult times. I would like to hear this point of view from Mr. Pavlovski, so that these sums, which will be collected in the form of fines, will go to guarantee bank payments. I think it'll be fair for this to be the purpose of these funds. I think it's going to allow you to deal much faster with those who have suffered from unscrupulous bankers. This bill, in my view, provides the answer to another very important question. Let's think about near 2009 when the state allocated billions of dollars to support banks that actually ended up in a difficult state. But let's be honest. We didn't support the banks at the time, but we supported the investors, the millions of investors who kept their money in commercial banks. How, then, did unrepentant bankers manage to do so? It was those three banks that were announced today that actually used these billions of dollars that the state allocated to them in fact to transfer these funds to dollars and bring them out of Ukraine. [[I don't want to do any more commercials or anti-advertise.]] It was a double blow to the economic system of Ukraine. On the one hand, it's actually an unreasonable use of these funds, and on the other hand, it's been playing a very unhealthy campaign around foreign currency in Ukraine during the global financial crisis. That's why I think this bill is just the first piece of paper, because it has to be the responsibility of both Mr. Stelma, and Mr. Sapovall, who was conducting and directly responsible for supporting commercial banks, for the fact that billions, tens of billions of dollars actually went to the sand and were in no way controlled by the National Bank of Ukraine. That's why my proposal is sound, and I would like to support this bill, and I believe that this bill will allow at least thousands and thousands of investors to meet each morning near the Blood Bank directly. Look what's going on all over the country and who's standing there. There are simple pensioners who have carried their miserable 100, 200, 300 bracelets and can't get them now. This bill will answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u111	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. The next one will be by Gordienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u112	Dear National Deputies! Well, unfortunately, what they said, what's written in the Explanatory Note and essentially the law differs from what we've been listening to, I've been watching this very carefully. All we have to do is donate and thank you for trying, really, to protect the rights of financial actors -- financial services banks -- but it's done, believe me, not in that way, and it's not a classic form of protection. Because all over the world, they're protecting the rights of the creditor. And by the way, such a bill is registered in the Supreme Council. And I'm asking the authors: read, please. Too bad this bill didn't go through our committee and we didn't give our professional opinion. And believe me, fines don't solve the problem of banks and investor protection. The author writes in his note that, as if banking institutions, both financial and banking, are introducing moratoriums, they do not pay in a unilateral manner. Unfortunately, the moratorium is not set up by a financial institution, but it is set up by the National Bank to heal this banking institution. By law, we agreed that the bank had no right unilaterally to change the terms of the contract. By civil code, we have determined that the investor must make a contribution at the first request, and the bank is obliged to make a contribution. And this is actually done when the banking system is functioning in a stable way. And there's no such thing as an early deposit. But unfortunately, we're talking about banks that went bankrupt. There must be a different approach to them and other rules of regulation for the protection of investors in this banking institution. So now, essentially. I think the author didn't count -- and this was to be taken into account -- that the relationships that apply to bank deposits are governed by civil or commercial law. Therefore, the responsibility for breaching such obligations contracts should be civil and legal, not administrative. And I think that lawyers in this professional committee should have paid attention to that. The bill proposes to smoke a leader. But a banking institution is an institution, and a legal entity should be responsible, not a personal manager, because the bank has a lot of governing bodies: both a monitoring board, and a bank government, and credit committees. Responsibility should be exercised by a legal person, not by a natural person. Well, it seems to me that the most appropriate response was the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which made a warning that similar sizes of fines were quoted as saying, "Not even foreseen for committing crimes, taking into account the statutory minimum wage by age," -- and so on, and it's like mistreatment of citizens. Next: "Another article of the Criminal Code determines the amount of fines for doing within the limits -- and so on -- which are too excessive." So I suggest you send for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u113	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u114	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! Let us ask ourselves a very simple question: Would it be possible to have the shameful phenomenon that we have discussed today, in Soviet reality, in the Soviet Ukraine? [[B in m in s a l in]] It was impossible. I would like to draw the very attention of all those who listen to us and hear that it is those who are so passionate about the welfare of the Ukrainians today that they have helped throughout the period to lead to something that our own citizens could have chosen. And this was chosen when the former Soviet Union was stolen. And who's got the money for these deposits, we know. Today I want to say the next thing you know, every morning you go and you see that disgraceful thing about "Brother Bank" and others, when people are standing all day, they can't get their deposits. Let's see what happens to credit unions, where citizens' funds have also been allocated. The drafter of the bill can only be thanked for the fact that we are drawing attention to this problem. But let us ask ourselves this question: Does the bill solve the investor’s problem? Absolutely not. Absolutely not. And from this bill, Andrew, in fact, is neither warm nor snooze to the investor. I would like to draw attention, including our Parliament's leadership, to the fact that, as early as 22.12.2009, my colleagues, Vladimir Danilenko, registered Bill 4383, which is called the bank's responsibility for breaching the terms of the treaty. And this bill would solve this problem more significantly. The purpose of this bill is to amend the Ukrainian Civil Code in article 10, specifically, 58, where the bank could or would have had for every day that it failed to pay off a deposit or a citizen's contribution, to pay 1 percent of a penny. It would protect citizens, and it would be necessary for all people today. But I'm telling you, no wages. You don't want the foam to pay, or the social benefits. And I know you won't support him. But I am addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, 4380, exactly three, since 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u115	Thank you. Do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u116	And it's this bill that's supposed to protect our investors. And the faction of the Ukrainian Company insists on its immediate consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u117	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. I ask you, let's do this: let's now sign up for the national MPs, and after a break of 15 minutes, let's have a discussion with the national MPs. Is there no objection? I'm asking you to sign up, Your Honor. Please put your name on the information board. Yes, he will start the debate of Alla Alexandrovska from the faction of Communists. Ladies and gentlemen, 30 minutes to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u118	Passing it to Peter Zybenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u119	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, is the head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm going to start my speech from the replica, from the trailer to the author of the bill. In introducing his bill, the author referred to the faction of the Company of Ukraine as one who allegedly served someone. I would ask the author to be more responsible with his tags and to remember, and at least honestly, to answer the question: Who does he serve? Ukraine’s company has served no one, consistently defending the interests of the most disadvantaged citizens of Ukraine, including the return of savings. And why did I say that, Mr. Andrey? And the point is that the original draft of the bill that you presented today was prepared and registered in 2007. But since Mr. Yushchenko and Mrs. Timoshenko were in power with you, neither in 2007 nor in 2008 nor in 2009, you did not go out with him, and at the end of 2009, when it became clear that you were going to be removed from power, you reregistered the bill at the end of the year and began to tear up the nation’s protector’s shirt. So I would like to be more honest and more responsible even in this matter. I, my esteemed colleagues, have the right to ask this question for one simple reason, because, together with Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko and Valentin Grigorovitch, we, at each session, register a draft amendment to the basic law on the return of Ukrainian citizens' lost savings, register and insist on each session, because it is not supported. At first, the oranges did not support them, now others do not support them, and as a result, the people of Ukraine suffer. And the point is that the problem is acute, I'm absolutely convinced, because in the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons and in the Council of Veterans of Ukraine, we get a huge number of references to this acute social problem. And now, in the end, the most important thing. I want to tell the bill's author, who tried to accuse us of not supporting this bill -- I don't want him, I don't know whether to advise or disappoint -- it's the faction of the Ukrainian Company that will vote for it, it's going to be the same as it has consistently voted in favour of all the bills that relate to the return of savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u120	Thank you. Please, Prokopchuk. None. Bondarenko Volodymir. The thing is, they didn't sign up from the rostrum. So the microphones from the rostrum, not you. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u121	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Yuri Gnatkevitch, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I am perhaps one of the few deputies who, during three calls, I am in the Supreme Council, I have never used a car, but I go to work on the subway. And this is how it happened that in the last month I've been taking a car and on my way back from Obolon, where the church, where the Post Office is, I see a huge array of people who are tired, I think, what people can stand for. Well, when they were behind sausages in the old days, it turns out that, at two o'clock in the day, I'm approached by a landlady from the village of Kozin, where I graduated from high school, and she just came out of this queue. And she says that her husband once put $10,000 in Rodowice Bank, and she can't get it, even though she has a bad health problem with her baby. I'm getting back in the car and I'm hearing a statement from the President that the President has instructed the head of Nitzbank and the Prime Minister of our Azarov to make sure they're accounted for with the Stargate Bank depositors. I have, Adam Ivanovich, maybe you know something because she asked me to tell her something. What am I supposed to tell her, she'll call me tomorrow, she'll get her money or not? I was about to call her and tell her that I had heard, read on the Internet that the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine had promised that he would immediately develop a plan for how to fully and definitively settle with the parents' bank. Adam Ivanovich! You think our colleague Pavlovsky here is offering to pay fines for those who violate discipline and don't give money to people. What fine does our President, Victor Janukovic, Prime Minister and Head of the National Bank of Arbosov pay if they fail to follow this direction? I think that the President needs to take responsibility for people and take responsibility for the instructions he gives to his subjects. I learned from our plan of work that we have something in April, something in May, that there will be parliamentary hearings about the return of savings saved by people. I was very surprised, because lately nothing has been mentioned at all, only July – Yulu Timoshenko, who has promised and paid nothing. So I want to explain that at least she promised and paid, though a thousand, and she had big plans to pay that money. But remember, they were included in the privatisation budget at the time, and President Yushchenko the then and head of the State Property Fund -- one lady -- was vetoed. [[Forgot your last name]] The money people would get -- it was the people's money. And at the expense of privatization, they had to go because it was a national good.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u122	Thank you, Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction. It's the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u123	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. When I read the bill proposed by Andrey Pavlovski, I certainly made an immediate decision to support this document. The reasons I've been guided are that we can't keep giving people reason not to trust the state and the banking system. Well, unless someone can bring some money into the banking system sometime in the future by surviving a robbery in the USSR Savings, when deposits, insurance, and lottery items were destroyed. Well, can anyone believe that there are normal structures for building housing after the Elite Center? Or after you put the money into the Rodawood Bank or Nadra Bank. Well, obviously not. So one day we have to break this cycle of crime and it could be broken down long ago if we were to replace the National Bank’s leadership in time when the issue of Stella was raised. Unfortunately, it happened that first Yushchenko and then his political allies in the Party of the Regions kept the secret, not the bank’s secret, but the secret of bank theft. And this secret of bank theft has led us to have the situation that we have today. And remember, among the 10 commandments is one: "Don't steal." What, then, is it possible to steal from people their money that they have earned by honest work? Obviously not. But are we then guided by the Constitution of Ukraine, which directly states that we are aware of our responsibility to God, our own conscience, past, present and future generations, and we accept this Constitution. Obviously, there is a gross violation of the Constitution, since none of those who commit these crimes today is governed by the Constitution of Ukraine, is guided by God’s commandments. And when there are people here speaking and telling stories that someone didn't do something when you started doing something and didn't give it back to the population in particular, you didn't. You were against it, you called it populism, without seeing the eyes of those people who were waiting for that thousand today as the manna of heaven, for there is nothing to live for. Today, you have created a special system of state theft based on the positions you are in. And today, the major costs, which are about the state’s budget, go to such a small island of Cyprus each year. And when I analyzed who's inhabiting it, this Cyprus, there are three categories: Greek Cypriots, there are Turkish Cypriots, and there's a party of Ukrainian Cypriots. This "Cypriot Party" using another faction that is actively speaking here, is protecting, giving no voice to break this vicious circle, in order to stop the flow of Ukraine's money into the offshore. Here's where you really want to return money to people, or not to return it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u124	Please, Kolocaj gives Konovaluku the word. Get ready, school.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u125	Respected colleagues, respected voters, the issue of return and, like the state of the country's credit and financial system, it is much more serious. And I probably will not say anything new, that any State must count on its citizens, and first and foremost implement a policy that determines that it is necessary to live by means and in the context of the growth of its national economy. Obviously, our opponents have forgotten that Ukraine has attracted more than $100 billion in loans over the past five years – 57 billion direct guaranteed debt and corporate debt. I mean, the country lived on credit for five years. The national economy had been destroyed, the credit and financial system had collapsed, and a few years ago, citizens of the country had seen the currency exchange rate of 8 bracelets for a dollar, which had lost about 60 per cent of their savings, today rightly demanded a more balanced policy from the State. I would like to remind everyone that it is only this year that we will have to pay back 23 billion grevens per cent, and 65 billion gnarly repayments of the principal amount of debt. Over 80 billion grevens are the means that today could go to social payments, to health care, to education. These are the means you have taken and your power. I think it is clear to all of us that the State must pursue a more effective financial and credit policy. So what is the bill proposing? To call it populist would obviously be, you know, more frank and honest. Because the current code of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences implies between 50 and 100 unpaid minimum fines. How much money have they attracted, how much fines have they imposed in previous years? 53. Article 53 of the Criminal Code provides for penalties, i.e. fines ranging from 30 to 1,000 unpaid minimums. That is, in fact, we will be more prosecuted for an administrative offence than for a criminal offence. That's why I think the problem needs to be considered differently today. And I would like to say frankly that Ukraine's credit and financial system today requires a very serious intervention. Because there are 20 banks in the liquidation phase. There are about 50 banks with temporary administration. I think that the committee headed by Pecklusenko has proposed a number of, say, proposals for the development of the country's credit and financial policies today. But I would still like to say, in closing, that the confidence of the population in the banking system is growing. Deposits increased by 60 billion grevens that year. And it could have been done much faster if we had not faced the consequences of the destructive policies you have pursued in recent years, while abuse of power and abandoning our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u126	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u127	Thank you. Andrew School, Fatherland, Timoshenko Street. Well, you know, right up to the front, I'm talking about a nice Ukrainian saying for a cow. You know, right? That whose cow is running and whose cow is silent. So here we are, not on this side of the charge. For the past 10 years, Janukovic has been the prime minister for six years. 90 percent of the loans for the poorest interest were taken as premiums. Well, who do you blame, gentlemen? What are you talking about? What are the 10 years of orange power? Among them. She was orange. Half the time you exercised authority and took responsibility for the same loans. I realize that evil takes you, that during the Prime Minister’s time Timoshenko did so without raping his own people, without increasing the retirement age to the point of death. Well, what's the retirement economy after the Party of Regions? Just retirees will work, old people will work until they die, and they will save lives in retirement. It's simple, but it tastes good. Tough? Well, that's kind of it. So, gentlemen, when you start talking about what's keeping you from doing anything for a year, please don't have to go to power. You from this rostrum said: "Give us the authority to show you.".. Showed. You're saying that trust in banks is growing. I don't know who has it? And then the credit rates go down. Actually, I understand that your money in other banks lies or in special ones that are left with today's head of Nutzbank. By the way, let's not forget that Nazbank's manager doesn't have an I.D. until now. So we go back to being responsible for credit policy. I agree with my colleague that, of course, we need to guarantee and encourage those who lend. But let's not forget, it's right that in this situation, there are simple citizens who are lenders because they take their savings to the bank. And they want to live on profit, or at least if they don't live on it, if they don't exist, at least know that this money will be saved. And they're not saved because banks are burning, and trust in the banking system because of your leadership is just going to fall, because you understand very well that money, they love peace. And where there is no peace, where there is political persecution, partyism, when the firm is broken up, not because it works well or badly, but because its owner is not part of that political power. That's what you're talking about! Money loves silence. You don't love her. Because dark things are always easier to do when you scream, "Hold the thief!" And steal from it. That's why I think we need to back up the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u128	Yes, thank you. There's a lot of replicas. Please, Popescu, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u129	Thank you. Popescu, faction Party of the region. Dear colleagues, I have asked the author a specific question, but I have received a rather banal populist reservation. Therefore, dear colleagues, let us remember who was in power during the financial crisis when an unprecedented panic was triggered in Ukraine, resulting in the dollar jumping from 4.5 to 8-9 bracelets. As a result, the bracelet has been depreciated by 67 per cent, significantly impairing the well-being of our people. And I had a specific question for the author. Who was the Prime Minister then? He didn't answer. The answer is very simple – the Prime Minister was Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko. And all responsibility for the period, during this period, rests with her team, including the author. Thank you very much. ( ) [[Noise In]] [[Halls@item:]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u130	Pavlovsky, please. Peanut. Pavlovsky’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u131	As the author of the bill, Andrew Pavlovsky, I am grateful to all who understand the problem. And he realizes that because of increased responsibility, we're going to return trust, first of all, to the banking system. When people know that these unwarranted employees of the banking system, who, in breach of banking contracts, contracts, effective legislation, do not return their deposits in time, they will be punished. So the responsibility must be on both sides: both the client and the bank to the client, and the bank workers. So please support this law. And as for populists and so on, remember that the word "populist" in Latin means "national," and this is the highest praise you can say to the opposition. We must protect the afflicted and enslaved by you, the oligarchs of the Party of Regions, our people. And so I ask you to uphold this law. The Communists also need to serve, not the oligarchs of the Party of Regions, but our people. Perhaps Karl Marx and Engels in the graves are turning from your shadow-capital coalition, with the largest bourgeois of the Party of Regions. Surrender! You have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u132	Hell-bent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, I am sure that any MP working in the district today understands that more important tasks for power than to return savings are not. But the bill, unfortunately, does not meet the requirements. He's asking three questions. First question. Who prefers investors? Second question. Who hates bankers more? And question three. Who'll come up with a worse punishment for bankers. If the penalty depended on the issuing of deposits, I and my faction would immediately vote for the minimum sentence of life. Unfortunately, though, this does not solve the problem. It was therefore quite right to say that for the first time in Parliament, the issue of return of deposits would be heard. Let us join forces, let us find real mechanisms for the return of contributions to the population. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm just talking to those who listen to us, I think they're listening to us very carefully, to see the history of these issues. And I'd like to remind you of one simple thing. When, in 2008-2009, during the period of crisis that we were promised that it would not affect Ukraine, the vast majority of those present in the hall were not protecting investors, but protecting banks and protecting bankers. And unlike those who see it today, the faction of Communists has always and consistently advocated, not the interests of bankers, but the interests of investors. That's the first one. The other one. Whoever points to the clock, I say, and you will be told by the first deputy, a member of the regulatory committee, that there is an opportunity for the chairman to summarize the question. I am voting on the draft number 4404 amending article 165-5 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences for the Protection of Banking Contributions on the Basis of First Reading. [[12:51:32]] For 122 Factions: Region Party 1, Fatherland 25, People's Self-Defense - Our Ukraine - 22, Communists - 24, Reforms for the Future - 16, People's Party has no votes, non-factional - 4. The bill was rejected, unfortunately. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (on the provision and protection of democratic principles for the activities of the parliamentary minority) (registration No. 7507) is under consideration. The author of the bill Arsenij Yatsenuk. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[B in m in s a l in]] As the session hall will determine. [[12:52:30.]] For 231 Dear colleagues, unfortunately the author has no rights, this is determined by the session hall. The author may have one position and the deputies determine according to the Rules. Please, Arseny Petrovich, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u135	I'd like to go to that part of the hall that just voted in favour of a reduced procedure. I want to make it very clear that you have been in opposition, and you will definitely come to it again. That is why this law is adopted so that after you lose the next parliamentary election, your rights will be protected. This is about the fact that it's not about protecting members of parliament, it's not about protecting that minority that's today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it's about protecting millions of Ukrainians who don't agree with the current government and the current president. Look at the last survey, more than half of the Ukrainians don't support the work of power, the authority you formed, but only 7 percent are fully satisfied with life. I think 7 percent are members of the vast majority and the Party of Regions. This law is aimed at finally fulfilling President Yanukovic's mandate on October 13th to ensure that the rights of opposition are regulated in Ukraine. As opposition, we demand that we be able to control the activities of this authority. Failure to adopt the law is nothing more than a legal and actual destruction of opposition activities in the country. The bill provides for the formation of committees. The bill provides for the possibility of opposition to control power. The bill foresees the need for the transfer of opposition to the Ukrainian Court of Auditors, at least the only body that has constitutional powers to control the billions that stretch out the vast majority. In view of this, for us today, it is essential for the country as a whole to adopt this law, because it is a law that protects millions of Ukrainians from the exercise of effective authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u136	Yes, please, from the committee head Vladimir MacKeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u137	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as of 23 December 2010, the Committee on the Rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has before it a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, number 7507 of 23.12.10. [[on the provision and protection of democratic principles for the activities of the parliamentary minority]] The bill is proposed to supplement the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules with a new chapter 13, "Parliamentary Minority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine", which contains 12 articles, which provides legal guarantees for the activities of parliamentary minorities, organizational and legal principles, its activities and order of formation, the rights and duties of parliamentary opposition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the activities of the opposition government, and so on. In fact, the bill states that its position in the vast majority is reiterated by the content of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on additional guarantees for the exercise of the rights of Ukrainian national deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine under number 7267, introduced by the same body of legislative initiative. The issue of this bill was considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 December 2010, and the bill was not included in the agenda, which was due to its withdrawal. The committee has not yet considered this bill of the Law of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the draft is appropriate to be rejected. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, in its conclusion on the bill, notes that it has an impact on the State budget, increasing its expenditure. Basically, that's all the information I wanted to tell you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u138	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Two for, two against. Odarchenko, BUT faction. Get Carpuku ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u139	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u140	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I'm opening an effective regulation. And on February 10, 2010, I think the Supreme Council, in the sense that most of the Supreme Council made a big mistake. Because if you look at the current Rules and open page 57, it says here: Chapter 12 is off, Chapter 13 is off and certain articles of other chapters are off. What happened on February 10? In fact, a decommissioned parliament that understands the logic of making decisions, where there is a majority and a deputy is a minority. It's not in principle whether there's a term "coalition" or "opposition." In principle, Ukrainian society should know: there is a majority who have taken responsibility. And there's no temporary opposition, no internal opposition. Three factions have taken responsibility, and they are all responsible, and they are responsible for it in the election. There is an opposition that has taken responsibility to protect those who voted for it. And in this system of work, parliament will only then have the respect of the Ukrainian people. Arsenius Petrovich took the first step: he restores the previous chapter 13 and several articles of chapter 16 on minority rights. [[opposition]] But I think we need to take the second step: chapter 12 has to be, for the most part. Everyone should know that the majority who took responsibility consists of, there, the factions of the Party of the Regions, the “Block of Lithuania”, the Communist Party, the “Reforms and Orders”. It's like, people like that, they do this every day and they protect their President and their government. The opposition protects its adherents and warns against any other position. On principled issues, both the majority and the minority need to define rules of conduct together. I read that we had already written a law on the electoral system. I have a question: Who, and by what rules, wrote the law? What, there is no opposition, no two-thirds of Ukrainian society that does not support power? They also need to write the law. So, honourable colleagues, it's the right idea, but it needs to be expanded, and it needs to be turned back, and it's about most, and it's about minority, and we're going to have to pay our respects to the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u142	Please, Vladimir Karpuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u143	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We support this bill and please give the word to Ruslan Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u144	Prince's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, what Mr. Mikola Tomenko forgot to do is to thank the author of the legislative initiative that he finally took the initiative to hand over the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic, and the well-established majority who declared first to the world at the request of the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, a wide range of international organisations, the need for regulation at the legislative level of opposition rights. Even at first, it was said that soon we would have a separate law of opposition from the President in general, and it was true, and then it was gone, and everyone forgot about it. But it's a good thing we didn't forget. We thank the author of the legislative initiative, which reminds the president that he must be consistent. In view of the circumstances that, indeed, we have no idea in the Constitution right now, both coalition and opposition, the author of the opposition, by the way, does not speak. He speaks of a minority as engaging in opposition activities. This in no way violates the Constitution, for in the Constitution, by the way, most of them. Maybe it's not in a direct context when it comes to voting, when we read a series of decisions by the Constitutional Court, it's about our parliamentary majority. Indeed, I support Tomenka, and we also need to regulate our Rules in this regard. But let this settle the majority, let it take on courage, support the minority, regulate its sphere of activity, and then have the moral right to approach its activities. Although I don't know what to settle, all that can be done is monopolized in the hands of most people. In view of these circumstances, we have nothing to do with this project now. We need to take it as a foundation, work on it, and accept it as a whole. Without its adoption in the near future, Parliamentarianism in Ukraine will have to be forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u146	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u147	. Dear colleagues, let us ask: What is the power of Western democracies? [[B in m in s a l in]] The strength of Western democracies is that a strong democratic State is unthinkable without strong democratic power. A strong democratic power is unthinkable without a single strong democratic opposition. Unfortunately, we don't get that kind of solitaire. In the past, we had a strong democratic opposition in the face of the Party of the Regions, and the power was a blurry, smoldering between the President and the Prime Minister, and there was no strong democratic state. On the contrary, the Party of Regions is in power. We have a strong democratic power, but there is no strong democratic opposition, and there is no strong democratic state. We therefore need another law in which to lay down rules for the establishment of a strong democratic united opposition and here to establish the principles of rotation, rejuvenation of personnel so that the author of the bill can lead a single strong democratic opposition in Ukraine. That's the future. That is why I propose to reject this law, and the law establishing a unified and comprehensive democratic opposition, which will provide for the rotation of personnel and rejuvenation, so that the new growth of the new democratic generation will lead it, will be adopted in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u148	Yes, respectable colleagues, discussion, another discussion of an interesting subject, since we have been discussing it in one or another way for years. I'm putting a motion to the vote, right, only a deputy's proposal, because the chief scientific expert is offering to reject it, and the committee hasn't considered it either. I am proposing the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading. [[Registration number 7507]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:04:09]] Z-87 There is no united opposition. The factions, please. By factions, please: Region Party - 1, Fatherland - 55, Our Ukraine - 24, Communists - 0, Reforms - 3, People's Party - 0, non-fractional - 4. The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on transparency in the use of budgetary resources and the cost of public and municipal property entities by their administrators]] Registration number 7218. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u149	The headman's got it. [[13:05:03]] For-191 Supported. Please, Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk. Prepare Baran from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u150	Adam Ivanovich, you haven't given me a chance to tell our colleagues from the Party of Regions. I want to go to the Regional Party. You will be working for a few months, and President Yaunukovich will appoint you as an opposition because you will finally win his rating. With regard to the bill that is being tabled for Parliament's consideration. There was a failed package of anticorruption laws yesterday, which was very much talked about, but little has been done in the essence of the bill. One of the main elements of such anti-corruption legislation is the disclosure of revenue and the spending of government officials. In this bill, it is meant that all state-owned companies, so that all public authorities and anyone who uses state funds, will necessarily publish all the information on who, how much, on what contracts, on what liabilities, on what companies and companies they pay public funds. An example of this is, for example, "The Secretary of State Procurement." Who has recently published information that the Government administration of the Ukrainian President's Office has purchased gasoline at a very low cost: only 37 dollars per litre. I understand that it is likely that such a price in the near future will result in the government’s work on gasoline. But this has been made possible by the mandatory rule of law regarding the declaration of all expenses of all public authorities. That is why I insist that all the tax collectors’ costs collected by this government be made public and that the country know who, by what obligation, and at what price does the State pay the appropriate money? Thank you for your attention. Please uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u151	Thank you. Please, from the committee, Baranov Valerius Alexiyovich, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u152	Deputies! The draft law contains amendments to the Code of Budgets for Ukraine, the Code of Masters and the Code of Administrative Offences in part of the publication of information on the use of funds by government authorities, local self - government, state and municipal property owners, and the responsibility for failure to comply with such requirements. The Committee has considered this issue and notes that, to date, the issue of the publication and public disclosure of information on the use of budgetary resources does not need to be further addressed, since, according to section five, paragraph 11, of article 22 of the Budget Code, the Chief Budget Manager, I quote: "It ensures the availability of budget information in accordance with the legislation of the Budget Code." In addition, the organisation and coordination of lower-level budget managers and budget recipients in the budgetary process is in place for the mandate of the Chief. The budget code in Article 28 "Availability of budget information" sets out the requirements for the publication and content of the budget information, including information on the implementation of the public budget, in summary of the month, quarter and year. According to article 10 of the Public Procurement Act, in procurement procedures for goods, jobs and services at public expense, operators publish information about purchases. The Supreme Council of 13 January this year passed the Ukrainian Law on Access to Public Information, which defines the order of exercise and the right of everyone to access information, including the provision of budgetary resources, ownership, use or management of public, municipal property. The Ministry of Finance is based on the inadequacy of adopting the bill. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes it's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u153	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u154	He thinks the bill should be rejected. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts, presented by Arsenija Petrovich, proposes that the Committee reject as one whose standards are regulated by the current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u155	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Karmazin Yuri, get ready for Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, today, the majority representative and his right hand are always asking us which Ukraine to build. The previous bill and the previous bill, which Ukraine we are about to build, the previous bill talked about democratic implementation of democratic principles and talked about the rights of opposition. You've drowned them, you've trampled these rights, you've trampled the rights of the non-resistance of the one represented here, so you've turned the entire Ukrainian people into opposition to yourself, to your actions. And that's why I was surprised that when you were out of power and when your oligarchs, who are now increasing wealth three times a year, were hiding abroad, then you represented here the first deputy head of the Supreme Council, you were entitled to that, you were entitled to many other things. Today you're demonstrating a completely different policy and especially a disgraceful one, really, they tell me, thank you, especially in terms of opposition. The offer that just came out of it is a disgrace. How we're discussing why we've made the abbreviated regime. Adam Ivanovich, you're a Democrat, even though you're a Communist, you're a Democrat. This is about publishing information on the use of budget funds by local governments. The point is that state enterprises, whose share of the statutory fund is more than 50 percent, have to know where the funds go.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u157	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, you'll always say better in two minutes than in three or four. Please, Pavlovsky. I'm democratic, your time is up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u158	Andrew Pavlovsky, please give the floor to the national deputy of Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u159	Seven, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u160	Samerak, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Dear colleagues! Actually, this topic in our session room is not just today, but yesterday we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u161	Ostap, I'm sorry, please. Dear National Deputies! Now in the session room is a delegation from the political group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats of the European Parliament led by the president of the political group Martin Schultz. Let us welcome the distinguished guests to their fruitful visit to our country and to their vivid impressions of the hospitable Ukrainian land. [[Congrats]] [[Applause]] Thank you. Excuse me, please repeat your time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u162	Dear colleagues! In fact, the topic raised in the Yatzenuk Bill is fundamentally important. And that is not the subject today. Yesterday, we were looking at similar bills by the government that put up an opposition to the issue of controlling the use of state funds by casinos, state enterprises, and state and executive authorities. In fact, what is happening now in the system of spending public funds does not withstand any criticism. I understand that by continuing yesterday's trend, and the present majority, the Party of Regions and its allies, are obviously not supporting the law passed by opposition representatives, and will not allow all Ukrainian society to see where the money collected from taxpayers is spent. Obviously, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko will support this bill and we call on everyone, and journalists, including to pay special attention, because in fact it remains the only option of society and opposition to control how funds are used, including state-owned enterprises, including other programs, and, say, the Euro-2012 programme. But I don't want to talk much about Euro because we've talked a lot about how money is being stolen. So, literally today, when I went to the public procurement site, I got information that the Ukrzalznica company bought 300,000 paintings. Tell me, please, how does this refer to the Crucifixion? Why people who move from Kiev to another part of the Ukrainian State should pay for decorating the offices of the rulers of the Ukrainian railway. Why does the State Administration buy gasoline for 37, or for what, a pint per liter? These things are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u163	Well, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u164	That is why we must adopt this law in order to make it impossible for us to steal public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u165	Yes, thank you, please, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction behind him, Valery Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u166	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian company, Poltavščina. Well, the bill is both in the name and the text seems to have good intentions, and everyone will see the very transparent movement of funds that relate to government and local budgets. The intentions are kind of good, but it's practically not going to work out, and everyone who's done it before, and let's try to show and put out the money for the light, and no authority has been able to do it. It's a very different thing to worry about, exactly, about this bill. And I have some points that I'd like to give the author. I'm sure this bill needs a software product that would explain the movement of these funds. So does the author of the bill lobby those who want to produce this software product and then serve, tens of millions, if not more, where they are in the local budgets? Next. Today, especially with regard to rural, village councils and others, additional human resources may be needed to do so. What will make this happen? This would refer to their own or to the powers delegated by the State? And other things. That's why the election is still on time, I think. The bill is very populist. There are so many questions for him. And I think the author will re-register him closer to the election campaign.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u167	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u168	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, the electorate, indeed, the system needs more concrete measures to make public procurement transparent, to make it impossible for them to violate and abuse anything. This is a guaranteed component of the fight against corruption. You know, I guess we have to make an appropriate change in legislation, but do it more professionally and professionally. But it's amazing. Why did such legislative activity come about right now? Why, then, when this empty chair was occupied by a respected drafter of the bill, did they not make proposals for public procurement? Then something was not seen when they bought, for example, a fast, ambulance twice as expensive. When did artificial lung breathing machines purchase three times the cost when people died in Ternopol, in Lviv, pregnant women when there was a pandemic? Why didn't you see when they financed the deficit by buying raw sugar three times the cost in Brazil? And that's what your government was giving you. So let's be more correct and more responsible. I am convinced that we must bring the matter in order. And at least I can think of a solicitation chamber. And for me, it is also unclear why her ideologist has fallen into the grips of our faction. It's also incomprehensible to me, yes. But I want to go to you and say one thing: what you don't need today is, you know, a parliamentary minority, it doesn't need a democratic Ukrainian society. We need real opposition. And when there was a opposition bill in 2005, you had every opportunity to support this bill. That's what I was talking about. And you don't have to do it today, you know, just to prove what you're really patriots and you're looking forward to the Ukrainian people. You had time for that. So let's be more responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u169	Yes, the discussion is over, dear colleagues. We'll make decisions. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on transparency in the use of budgetary resources and the cost of public and municipal property entities by their administrators]] [[Registration number 7218]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:20:37]] Z-70. Not supported. The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on additional guarantees for the implementation of the rights of the territorial community in the representative bodies of local self-government]] [[Registration number 7256]] There's a short cut. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:21:17]] For-198 Supported. Please, the bill's author is Yacenouk Arsenij Petrovich. Prepare Gordon from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u170	It's nice to have an education mission in Parliament. The third bill proposed for your consideration is a bill to regulate the activities of local governments in Ukraine. In principle, that law on the election of local councils, which was voted by the Party of the Regions, made it very easy for the authorities to form a package of pro-government deputies because the authorities control everything: the authorities control the media, the authorities control the financial resources, the authorities control the law enforcement authorities. And any member of the opposition faction becomes a target for this power. This bill is designed to also protect minority rights in the local authorities, which is the actual majority, because most Ukrainian citizens in the territories do not agree and cannot accept raising prices and tariffs, increasing the cost of gas, increasing the cost of gasoline, increasing the cost of all utility services that are installed, by the way, by the territorial communities. That's why my law is designed to enable minorities in all self-government bodies: firstly, to create appropriate commissions of inquiry in relation to the actions of the authorities; secondly, to reestablish the institution of the people in certain territories and to allow minorities in local self-government authorities to approach the territorial community through a referendum, through a referendum on any decisions that affect the activities of the territorial community. However, I am well aware of how this law will end. Same as before. You don't need opposition, you're afraid of it, that's why you don't vote for any of the laws of opposition during this session. You do not want Ukrainians to have the right to defend their rights through their deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u171	From the Committee is the Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Gordijenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u172	The committee discussed the draft Ukrainian law at its meeting on March 2. The Committee agreed with the numerous comments made in the conclusions of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Committee on Budget Issues, and considers it necessary to note such fundamental shortcomings in the conceptual nature of the bill. In the legislation of other countries, unknown examples of regulatory regulation of the status of opposition in local self-government and the establishment of an imperative mandate for members of local authorities of representative bodies. The establishment of an imperative mandate for local council members is contrary to part one of the first article 7 of the European Charter of Local Self - Rule, according to which the mandate of local elected representatives provides for the free exercise of their functions. The selective approach to the rights of opposition deputies, exclusively the rural and rural councils, the dissemination of information about their activities through the media of all forms of property, as well as the timely termination of powers for individual MPs of city councils, is not in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. The proposed bill amending the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea contravenes article 135 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and paragraph 1 of part two of the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, since that right belongs solely to the powers of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. According to the Committee on Budget Affairs, the proposed innovations may lead to increased expenditure on out-of-order elections and local referendums. As a result, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the bill. From myself, I will say that we are already leading opposition activities at the level of rural and rural councils and politics to the fact that we will soon not drink water and will not be there, on the boards.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u173	Thank you. We'll sign up for the show if you want. The Culchinian Santa. Prepare Bodnar Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u174	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! There is no doubt that the bill needs to be supported. And I'm talking to most of them. In many and many countries of the democratic world, together with, say, the election of one or the other, or of the city’s heads or deputies, there are other questions, such as the construction of a road, or the construction of a high-rise building in one place or another, and people are voting for a project. This is together with the vote for their candidates. This is a direct democracy. In Ukraine, I don't know when a referendum was held in one place or another, because the Law on Local Self-Government provides for referendums, an organizational group is formed, but the right to determine the day, date of the event, time is given to the city council or district councils again, and of course it's nowhere to be missed, because usually people want to hold a referendum on a question that the city authorities usually don't like. Because of this project by the national deputy Yatsenuk, he provides a clearer definition and strengthens the right to hold a referendum in the territorial community. And that's how we expand the boundaries of local self-government. I think we need to support him. And it'll be a good sign for the majority that it really cares about the development of democracy, as it tells us here that we are going along a European path to the European Union. This will be the vote to testify whether we are going that way and are willing to give people the opportunity to speak out on certain issues, or whether we are just trying to put them back under some kind of press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u175	Please, Olga Bodnar, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland" behind her, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u176	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland, Fatherland Party. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! You know the idea, maybe it's very nice and it can't be, but it's really very beautiful, but unfortunately, in that lecture where we see it now, except what's written on the ban, there's nothing behind the ban. Why do I want to talk about the fundamental conceptual flaws in the bill that prevent me from voting for the bill? The project's idea of implementing an imperative mandate, first of all, does not correspond to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. If we are so concerned about local self - government, if we are professional lawyers, we should focus primarily on this charter when we consider issues of local self - government. The author’s proposed definition of opposition suggests that opposition should exist only in villages, in villages in city councils, and in district councils there is no such opposition. This is wrong, absolutely wrong, because we have a Constitution that provides for equality of rights, including deputies of different levels. Colleagues have already called attention to the fact that changes to the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea can only be made in accordance with our Constitution, as well as the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Act, only through the adoption and adoption of decisions by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. So in this case, it's also a legal issue that's far from professional. With regard to amendments to the referendum legislation. Dear colleagues, funding local referendums from the state budget is a way never to hold a local referendum, because the state budget is in power. The government will never want to give the money to hold a local referendum. And if we want to deprive the community of the opportunity to present our interests and resolve this issue in a local referendum, please, this is the straightest way. Moreover, we now have in our first reading the laws adopted on the local and all-U.S. referendum, and we would have to reconcile them, because in this case, even if this bill were to be adopted, it would be inconsistent with the previous ones. When I finish my speech, I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u177	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u178	That regulation of opposing activities at the level of local self-government would lead to unnecessary politicisation of local self-government authorities, hindering their legal functions. From a legal point of view, the project was not prepared professionally, so the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherland" decided not to support the draft law, although the concept was not bad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u179	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u180	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We should pay tribute to the author. Indeed, it raises serious public problems, including the problem of local self-government, but it needs to be addressed not in the context of the law, but in the context of the Constitution. That is why the patriarch of Ukrainian politics, a man from the origins of Ukrainian statehood, who helped the leader of the opposition to storm the Presidential Everest today, I refer to the former President of Ukraine, Leonid Makarović Kravchuk, who proposed the establishment of a constitutional assembly that would draft a new constitution. In addition, we will not be with you in this assembly to lobby for the problems of BUTT, the Party of Regions, the Communists there and so forth, but that there will be scientists, scientists, representatives of local self-government who will indeed establish those mechanisms that will solve this problem. Thank you, therefore, for telling the author that the problem is serious. I feel that the representatives of BUUT here are consolidated in the Party of the Regions, when they say that this law is not to be voted on, they have also felt the importance and seriousness, and I think that in the context of the new Constitution, which will be drafted, submitted, we will participate at the appropriate stage of its consideration and, when approved there, will find a solution to this problem in a systematic and constitutional manner. Thank the author, there is a problem, but the law is not to be upheld. Here we agree with the BUT faction in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u181	One minute, Cheapie, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to go back to the Party of Regions. Not all local councils have a majority. For example, in Lviv. I gave an order to the political party "Front Change" to protect the impoverished party of "regions," because you will be buried there soon, so that the MPs represented by the Party of Regions will have the opportunity to express their position. The other one. This law is the answer to our colleagues from BUTU, which is the continuation of the position that the BUIT had with regard to the deputies who are betraying their constituents. I insist that the MP who betrayed the electorate, who betrayed the party and who, for money or without money, has to be expelled from the party and deprived of his mandate. Third. This law provides for the possibility of people finally making decisions in their territory and holding referendums. That is why this law must be passed. And I'm asking you to support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u183	You convinced them. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 7256, is put to the vote. [[on additional guarantees for the implementation of the rights of the territorial community in the representative bodies of local self-government]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:34:42]] For-29 The factions, please. "Fatherhood" - 12, "National Self-Defense" -15, "Reforms" - 1, "Postfactional" - 1. Everyone else didn't vote. The bill was rejected. Let's move on to "Inclusion in the agenda of the day session." We need to get into the agenda of the day session, and once again, I stress what the Chief of the Supreme Council said yesterday: if we're proposing projects, one or the other, we're going to put the agenda in order of the day, then we're going to have a decision to make changes to the agenda of the day session, so that those bills that will be supported will be included in the general order. Registration No. 8153 is a draft regulation on urgent measures to strengthen state support for agriculture on market grounds and to ensure the food security of the state. Please, one minute. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko. Oh, is he the author? Yes, please. Please, Kravchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u184	Vasil Kravchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. The main reason for today's decision-making and consideration is the threat to Ukraine's food security. I'm sorry that the Chinese farmers of the Supreme Council are supporting us instantly by buying Greece. With this approach to agriculture, as is now, and in numbers, this is a 22-fold reduction in agricultural financing compared to 2008-2009, this is an energy savings, this is a 3-fold increase in spare parts. In fact, the state has now released the agricultural sector on its own to deal with its own problems. And an example is that today both exports of agricultural products and imports of agricultural products, and the supply of fuel-oil materials is given by the government into the hands of Hlybinwestbud, which is the full monopolization of the salt market.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u185	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u186	Full monopolization of the agricultural market. That's why we made a decision to the Supreme Council in order not to allow such cases that had already taken place in 2010 with Greece. Greece is the first tray in the crisis, the food crisis in Ukraine. Please consider the Ordinance on Urgent Measures to Enhance State Support and Support for Rural Development in Markets. And people will see that Parliament is hurting for the food security of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u187	I'm betting on the voting project. on the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Decision on urgent measures to strengthen State support for the development of agriculture on market grounds and to ensure the food security of the State. Registration number 8153. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:38:34]] For-80 Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u188	I am. There's no such thing. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, to the order of law, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 (for the provision of an additional grant from the state budget to the city budget of Kiev for the payment of an incentive municipal allowance for city budget workers). The author of the bill is Kulikov. Please be sure. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're not the authors. I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[13:39:23]] For-92 Project not supported. 8110 is a draft of the Act amending the Act on Shareholder Associations of Ukraine (as regards the order of use of the income of the Shareholder Society). The author is Pavelowski. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u189	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to amend the Act on Shareholder Associations. [[on how to use the income of a shareholder company]] This is due to the fact that we have about 12 million minority shareholders who own simple shares that in 20 years have not received a single copy of their stockholding companies. All they get is the owners of the stock control packages, and the millions of people who have been tricked by certification privatization have no certificates that have been transformed into shares. So this law is designed to support, first of all, these simple people, who own simple shares. I propose to support this law, especially that it establishes that when considering the order of the day, shareholders' congregations need two-thirds of the vote to consider, first of all, other issues than the distribution of profits and dividends to owners of minority shares. So let's support the common people, which are 12.5 million in Ukraine, who are never once a penny from these stockholder societies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u190	Thank you. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the 8110 bill, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Shareholders. [[on how to use the income of a shareholder company]] Please vote. [[13:41:21]] For 104 Not turned on. Registration No. 8035 is a draft decree for the enforcement of the rights of the Ukrainian community in the Russian Federation. The author of the bill is Lilia Grigorovich. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:41:51]] Z-85 Not turned on. Registration Nos. 8177, 8177-1 is a draft law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act (for the non-closure of public educational institutions with the national language of education (Ukrainen-language schools) in Ukraine). The drafters are Yacenouk and Tomenko. Dear colleagues, we can't include it separately because it's alternative. We must, if we include them, consider two or no. I'm stressing again, it's an alternative. If we include any one in the agenda and the other one doesn't, the author has the right to insist on it, even if we don't vote. That's why we have to vote for both, or neither, because you get it. I'll put it to a vote. Please, Yacenouk, please, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, there is such a new spell of Ukrainian power, it's called "reforms." Pension reform will be carried out, health reform will be carried out, tax reform has already been carried out. And now we're in the process of reforming the education system. At least they took up the education reform system in the Eastern regions. My political party, Front Change, has made sure that three schools are not closed in the Donetsk region. It was in Donetsk that Ukrainian schools began to be closed. But the paradox is the following. Last week, teachers and parents from a Russian - speaking school located in the center of Donetsk and asked for help. That's why I insist on banning, first of all, the closure of Ukrainian schools. Secondly, before the second reading, we will discuss why your authority is closing down including Russian-speaking schools. And you promised to protect the Russian-speaking population.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u192	Mikolo Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I propose a universal formula for dealing with a difficult situation with the possibility of closing schools. The point is that we do not read the laws in force. The Law on Preschool Education and the Law on Local Self-Government clearly spelled out a formula that we did not extend, unfortunately, to the Higher Education Act. It says that preschool schools of communal property can be eliminated only by agreement of the territorial community and, in parentheses, so I propose that this formula be transposed into the Education Act, and then our territorial community consent rule will get instrumental confirmation. [[the general congregations of villages, villages, cities, or on the basis of the results of the local referendum]] So if in the village the village councils decided that they could, in fact, if one student was to be shut down on the condition that there would be a school bus, provided that teachers would not be fired from their jobs, provided that there would be no generals in that school, but there would be an educational institution, then the decision would be taken, but not by the district education officer, not by the ministry official. So I think this universal formula is going to spread to the village and to the city, to the Ukrainian language and to the Russian language, and we're not going to have a headache that people are talking to us about closing schools. So I'd like to put my bill on the agenda and settle it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u194	And that's the right thing to do. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of drafts 8177 and 8177-1, amending article 11 of the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act. Please vote. [[13:45:52]] For-129 The factions. The region's party is two, "BUT" is "Batakushina" is 60, "Our Ukraine" is 22, the communists are 25, "Reforms" is 16, the People's Party is 0, non-fractional is 4. Registration numbers 8042, 8042-1. Draft Act to prevent the deterioration of the pension security of Ukrainian citizens. Who's there, Pavlovsky, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u195	Andrew Pavlovski, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear National Deputies! In breach of agreements that were on the Conciliation Council, despite the decisions of the two professional committees on pensioners, disabled persons and social policy, which rejected the Government's Pension Reform Act, they sent back to the government for work, and its law-abiding authorities put it on this Thursday to consider. to accept, in fact, the retirement genocide of older people. To prevent a pension genocide, the opposition provides an alternative, introducing a bill to prevent the deterioration of the pension security of Ukrainian citizens. With this bill, MPs from the opposition from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko propose to introduce a moratorium on the five-year pension increase for our citizens and not to increase the retirement rate, not to reduce the base of calculations and not to reduce pensions for our citizens. And I want to say to the citizens, it's time to protect their interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u196	Please, we still have the Royal Bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, we insist that we stop making fun of Ukrainian women, stop making provocations against people, and put economic experiments in the country. Let's see what happened in our country over the past six months, prices have risen by more than 50 per cent for all foods. Panic, unemployment, reduction in the number of enterprises that have been engaged and all of this is the result of destructive actions against the economic situation in the country. The next is a pension reform, not a reform, a tool that destroys women's ability to obtain a job, a guarantee of social security. We therefore categorically oppose the implementation of the so-called pension reform of the name of Tigypto, the Cabinet of Ministers, and insist on a moratorium on the rise of the retirement age for women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u198	Please refer to the vote on the inclusion of 8042, 8042-1, in the agenda of the daily bill, the draft Law on the Prevention of Derogation of Pension Insurance for Ukrainian Citizens. Please vote. [[13:49:11]] For 111 The factions. Party of regions – 1, BUT – 61, Our Ukraine -18, Communists – 25, Reforms -2, People's Party – no votes, non-fractional - 4. Registration 8013 is a draft decree for the formation of the National Constitutional Assembly. The bill's author is Yatsenuk, please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! In addition to the list of reforms that I have already mentioned, there is another reform: constitutional reform in Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine ruled and returned the Constitution in 1996. Not once in Ukrainian history did the people of Ukraine, nor did the real parliament really have anything to do with the adoption of the Constitution. After the registration of my bill, President Janukovic also signed a decree on the creation of the National Constitutional Assembly, which, under strange circumstances, does not foresee any political power in forming a new constitution and thus rejects the people of Ukraine from adopting the Constitution. That's why I insist that if Parliament wants to remain a parliament, if Parliament does its constitutional function, namely: to adopt and amend the Constitution, it should take the initiative to ask the guarantor of the Constitution, why all the rights provided to Ukrainian citizens are unproven and unfulfilled. And take the initiative, and really accept the National Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u200	I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day project of the National Constitutional Assembly. [[Registration number 8013]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:51:14]] For-36 Not supported. The factions? Let's go through the factions: "BUT – "Fatherhood" – 14, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 18, "reforms" – 2, "non-fractional – 2, the rest of the factions did not vote. Registration No. 8143 is a draft law on the procedure for preparing and approving the new Constitution of Ukraine. Stack's, please, a minute, Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, my bill also applies to constitutional reform. We all know that President Yanukovic signed a decree establishing a constitutional assembly. The idea of this decree is to create an advisory body where the President will, by his discretion, appoint here lawyers, politicians, there other public figures who will write the Constitution, not for the Ukrainian people, but for the President. The project, which we have just rejected by Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk, also concerns the creation of an advisory body, but only the decisions of the Supreme Council. I propose the third time that was written in the Constitution by most European countries. The creation of a constitutional assembly, and rather, the establishment of congregations by means of national elections with certain limitations. That is, the people must choose real professionals, not politicians, who will write a good Constitution, which will be followed by both politicians and society. So I propose that we support the inclusion in the order of the day of this law, at least in order to get to know how the best countries in the world have written good constitutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u202	The proposal to include Bill 8143 in the agenda of the day is put to the vote, the draft Law on the Procedure for the Preparation and Approval of the New Constitution of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:53:25]] For-65 Not supported, I'm afraid. Registration No. 8802 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ". [[on the procedure for prior approval, adoption of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine]] Mr. Koval, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u203	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! All the countries of the world have one basic law, which is everywhere called the Constitution of the country, the Constitution of the State. Ukraine has its Constitution, too, but what has begun to happen to us with changes to the Basic Law, as far as I am concerned, is wrong. I believe that making changes to the Basic Law requires a very serious attitude on the part of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, first and foremost. Because we make decisions, we make changes. I believe that it is unacceptable to leave the possibility of amending the Constitution of Ukraine, of voting with buttons. And if, God forbid, we don't change the voting order, we don't change the voting order. I propose to amend the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to write that down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u204	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u205	Except for the name cards. For each national deputy to be identified, he went to the voting booth and voted by making changes to the Constitution of Ukraine so that the Ukrainian people would have a list of those people who made these changes. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u206	Thank you. But I think if there's a name card, there's nothing to go in the booth. Please put to the vote the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[on the procedure for prior approval, adoption of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 8202]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:55:54]] For-67 Not supported. Yeah. 8039 Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children. [[on State aid to raise a child from the age of three to the age of eighteen]] Yes, the bill's author is Pavlovski, Sochka. Pavlovski microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u207	Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Fellows, this bill is intended to implement the election promises of Viktor Yanukovic, who literally wrote: "Guarantee, from 1 January 2011 to every family, national social assistance for raising a child from 3 to 13 years -- 250 for each child, from 13 to 18 years for every child." But at the same time, we see a government budget -- there's not a penny for these purposes. That is how we must live up to our commitments, and I ask the Party of Regions to support its leader, my election promises. Now they're trying to substitute ideas. Not every family and every child, but only low - income families, which are much smaller. Clearly, they reduce the amount and so forth. So be honest with your constituents. You made commitments, you made social promises, you kept. I ask the majority to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u208	The proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children is put to the vote. [[on State aid to raise a child from the age of three to the age of 18]] [[Registration number 8039]] Please vote. [[13:57:52]] For-88 Overruled. The factions? But 43, our Ukraine 15, the communists 25, the Reforms 1, the non-factional four. The rest didn't vote. Registration number 8041. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Low-Supplied Families. [[concerning the determination of the amount of aid]] The authors, Pavlovsky, please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u209	People's deputies, honourable voters! Andrew Pavlovsky. I want to talk to you. Well, look, you don't want to keep Victor Yanukovich, your leader. And a party of regions, Chechetov doesn't raise his hand. Well, what kind of shame is that? We must keep our commitments, our promises. I would like to draw attention to the following bill, which determines the extent of assistance to low - income families. According to the Law on State Standards and Guarantees, this aid should be at the minimum of living. You see what's happening now. The government of Azarova has defined a virtual, undetermined level of subsistence allowance, which is twice as low as 50 percent of the subsistence minimum, and is robbing every low-income family of paying them much less from the welfare of the state. And it must be as defined by the Law on State Standards and Guarantees. Please support this law, which is a minimum of living. He's paying for full help.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u210	There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Law on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families. [[concerning the determination of the amount of aid]] [[Registration number 8041]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:59:55]] Z-87 Not supported. Chechatov. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u211	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! A party of regions never deceives and always tells the truth, however harsh it may be. We don't care about our ratings, but we're always used to trusting people and trusting politicians. And when we went to power, we trusted you, your leader, when we told you we had everything, the execution was full, but we couldn't give away the money. And we believed that. And they thought we'd come, at least push us away from work. But when we arrived, we saw a financial hole. In this hole, if you look at the binoculars, at the bottom of this pit, it's not the currency bills, it's the bills that have to be paid. Naturally, when we face this reality, we are forced to adjust and tell the truth to the people, taking into account the financial house of Paul we have left behind, we will quietly meet our obligations, but in accordance with the money we are actually earning. We're not led by myths, we're not deceiving people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of the Persecution of Contestants against the Adoption of the Code of Taxation of Ukraine is under consideration. [[Registration number 8081]] There's a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure, please support, for 14 minutes. [[14:01:42]] For a hundred and Supported. The author of the proposal, Royal Natalia Yuriovna, please. Get ready, Makienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! I propose to your attention a draft regulation establishing an interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the persecution of activists, protestors, “tax Majdan”. The main purpose of this regulation is to set up a parliamentary commission of inquiry to investigate the persecution of participants in the “tax Mayan”. [[No. 8081]] I repeat, we want to understand the legality of law enforcement and business practices. And if these acts are illegal, punish the guilty. You know that entrepreneurs had all legitimate constitutional rights under article 34 and article 39 of the Constitution. But today, all Ukrainian traffic is under way, criminal cases are being fabricated, people are being interrogated, and today, one participant is in detention. And I believe that the situation requires urgent parliamentary intervention, the establishment of an investigative interim commission. Because the parliamentary clearance will continue without control. And that's the last line of defense today. Because there's still an opportunity to settle without further protests and without serious human opposition. Don't provoke people to go out on the streets again today, stop reprisals against people who are free, economically independent. Ask, you want, ask yourself, you want to be involved in repression, you want to stand up today against people who have stepped out of the constitutional right to defend their legitimate freedoms. Because your inaction and your failure to support the establishment of such an investigative commission is your position today. And today you can tell people all over the country, whether you're free or you're free to go into repression today. And no.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u214	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u215	And don't think that if power eats up a small business for breakfast today, it won't be able to invite you to dinner. And today, you decide whether we will allow the power of small, medium-sized businesses, free people in our country, or whether it will continue to be a feast during the plague. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u216	Head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure. None. Yes. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, we are informing you that the committee at its meeting has not considered a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the persecution of members of the protest against the adoption of the Tax Code. At the same time, the Rules Sub-Committee prepared a draft conclusion to the committee stating that the draft regulation did not meet the requirements of part four, paragraph 3, of article 85. In addition, we draw attention to the task of the interim commission of inquiry, namely: to monitor the actions of the force authorities regarding participants in the protest against the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code, to assess the legality and soundness of the actions of the force organs in relation to participants in the events, to obtain information on the facts of the use of psychological and physical torture in the investigation of entrepreneurs involved in the protest. At the same time, the initiator of the project is not aware of what it is that the interim commission of inquiry should exercise control and assess the legality of these actions. In this regard, we suggest that we identify ourselves with a list of the bodies designated by the projects as forceful. Regarding the temporary commission of inquiry, information on the use of psychological and physical torture in the investigation of entrepreneurs involved in protests and in accordance with article 7 of the Procuratorship Act prohibits the involvement of public authorities in the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office to monitor compliance with laws or to investigate acts containing signs of crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u218	Yeah, if there's anyone who wants it, write it down, two-for, two-to-one. Peanut. Dear colleagues, because you're also in favour, or you could be in favour of only two. [[B in m in s a l in]] The faction is going to be one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I am sure that the participants in tax Maidan, who have indeed advocated the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, will never be harmed. I say it with all my responsibility. Second of all, I want to address you, distinguished colleagues, using the rostrum. We are waiting for this Wednesday for you to come up with bills that could work together to remedy the economic situation in the country. And you come up with really good bills by name, and then no mechanism, no constructive proposal. To give bills with only good names, but no mechanisms, it's hairy work. Let's get away from politics. Let us unite our efforts. The President made it clear: "The five billion that have worked must be made available today for social needs." So let's gather the working groups and think about how to make the right use of the five billion that the President has told us about. And be consistent. Here was our young political donation and says in the first part of his statement: "You do not need opposition. You won't listen to her," three minutes goes by and she says, "My party has warned me that three schools are closed." So when does he tell the truth, first or second?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u220	Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u221	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Well, first of all, the people who were in Maidan protesting against the Tax Code were absolutely right -- the veto of the President of Ukraine confirmed that. Finally, this was confirmed by the President of Ukraine himself, who visited the "tax Majdan". So the repression after that is against the President, it's not against the people, it's primarily against the President's line, which the majority of us today should be very much defending. That's the first one. The other one. Which law enforcement agencies in the state are known to everyone for a long time. And if we don't know, let's let the TSC help us set up. And literally to the end. I would like to point out that such steps show that authority is somehow feared by someone. It seems to me that repression against people in the second year of the government's activities is just fear. Dear colleagues, it's been a year since the President and the government. The first envelope has to be hidden. Open the second envelope and start working.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u222	Yeah, who's gonna have one minute from the BUT faction? The faction's leadership please give me a last name. Yes. Sass. Sas, please tell me who has one minute of faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u223	School!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u224	School? Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u225	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Well, I want to inform you that I'm the deputy head of the faction, that is, if I write this in writing to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u226	But you don't call yourself democratic, so another deputy named your last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u227	See, all right. It's a good thing you got out of this situation. You see, the Party of Regions didn't come out of the situation so conveniently. I understand from the representative's statement that in principle they're in favour of repression, not voting for the commission, but the title in this bill is good. I mean, at least I think our voters have realized that the Party of Regions is in favor of persecuting citizens who have come out to defend their rights. This is clear and will now be the vote that will take place in the session room. And therefore the charges that have been made for damage to property on a particularly large scale. It was there that the whistle was nailed or something -- damaged the marble, you know, if a car was scratched by a high-end from the Party of Regions. So I want our voters to understand who's behind the repression.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u228	Chernobyl. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u229	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! You remember, at the beginning of today's session, we rejected an entirely inadequate, in our opinion, decision that had already concluded to the end, which had not been made by the author, even the purpose of finding out what was going on, but was openly provocative. In this case, there's a perfectly wise suggestion: to create a commission, to study, to figure out, to ask what was the point of the militia's decisions, why such a serious measure of precaution, which is totally inappropriate to the accusations that people are making. And that's why we really need to vote for it. This is a socially meaningful event. Commissions are being set up by parliamentary investigators to really figure it out, and to make a decision on a matter of serious social resonance. That's why it makes sense to vote in favour of such a commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-16-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm just paying your attention if you have a draft decision before you that of the nine people who are proposed to be appointed to this committee are: "To elect the head of the Suslov Evgen Ivanovich commission, the Faction "BUT is the Fatherland", to be part of a temporary commission of such national deputies: the Royal, the Faction "BUT is the Fatherland" and Jojik, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". There are no other candidates on this committee. I mean, if we vote now, there'll be a three-man committee. I'll give it to you. I put to the vote a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the persecution of members of the protest against the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[Registration number 8081]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:14:14]] For-66 The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues, we have saved even one minute. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. I remind you that at 3 p.m., there will be parliamentary hearings in the session room dedicated to the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. And today the afternoon is spent working on committees and factions. Tomorrow we start work, as usual, at 10 a.m.
