ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:05]] Cards were registered in the 363 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Kiya Sergio Viktorovich and Topolovo Viktor Semenović. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them success and health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 20 December 2011. 53 issues of the agenda were discussed, 14 laws and 11 regulations were adopted, 6 bills and 1 draft decree were adopted on a basis, 2 bills were converted to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, 2 bills were returned to the committee for further work, and 9 bills and 3 draft regulations were rejected. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules of Article 25, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for the national deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Leonid Kojara, faction of the Party of the Regions. The Wooden One will be next. Vadim Koleschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished residents of our beloved State of Ukraine. Once again, I would like to emphasize that the Party of the Regions has a common sense, people of good faith, true Democrats have made every effort to ensure that human rights are a priority in the Ukrainian State, as our President, Viktor Fedorovic Yanukovic, has said. And all of our work in international organizations, in human rights organizations and in Parliament is primarily aimed at protecting human rights, not individual ambitions or individual false slogans. I will recall that, just a few days ago, the Venice Commission adopted for the first time in 20 years the Humanitarian Project Assessment Act on the Fundamentals of Language Public Policy, which is a very positive conclusion, which is written in this well-respected document. However, the so-called “democrats” who try to line up in the defense of the Ukrainian State, in these two nights, at night, they do nothing more, have so perverted the essence of the decision of the Venice Commission that we are forced to make an official statement. And before that, I'd like to say in national language that they're lying to these people. And I'd like to ask them: where is Mr. Sirko, where do these so-called Democrats borrow their eyes to cover the decision of such a high institution? The Venice Commission, literally, "welcomes the efforts of the authors of the draft Law on the Principles of State Language Policy, which has proposed a comprehensive framework for the protection of languages in Ukraine." She notes that the project is largely based on the position of the draft Language Law in Ukraine in 2010, which was already subject to the evaluation of the commission. The Commission notes with interest the novelties introduced by the new draft law, as well as the fact that some of the major amendments were made with regard to the position of the previous project to implement the relevant recommendations of the Commission. The Venice Commission believes that the draft law in general is an improved text compared to the 2010 project and that the changes made are in the right direction. In particular, according to his position, the approach underlying the current draft law seems to be more balanced, especially with regard to the relationship between the protection of Ukrainian as a national language in Ukraine and the Russian language that continues to be received. From the top position in the country's language landscape. Thus, lies spread in the media have no bearing on the draft Law on the Principles of State Language Policy. Respectable Ukrainians, citizens of our beloved state! Don't pay any attention to "crazy dogs" who are in line with the Democrats. A party of regions, people of sound authority, will protect human rights in Ukraine and ensure a proper, balanced humanitarian policy for the benefit of the people of our entire Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u3	The People's Dept. Dept. Dept. dept. dept. dept. dept. dept. dept. dept. dept. Next is Eugene Marmazov instead of Wolin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u4	Olena Shustick, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For more than six months, the political dispute over Julius Timoshenko is ongoing. Yesterday, the Court of Appeal, looking at the complaint of the "Kyreev" verdict, written by Yanukovic, "danced under the whistle" of the prosecutor's office. Repeatedly reasoned withdrawals from the judges ’ college have been dissatisfaction. The husband of one of the judges, Tetjana Fritz, is in charge of the Attorney General’s Office, but the court does not see the grounds for her replacement. Yesterday's chairman, sharing personal data on Julia Timoshenko's health, commits a crime, and there's no reason for the withdrawal. This crime, the disclosure of personal data, is both administrative and criminal. And all of this happened yesterday with the participation and the eyes of prosecutors and, by the way, the witnesses and the national MPs. The government openly speculates on the conditions of Timoshenko’s illegal detention in the WHO, her health. On mounted video, the ex-premier feels so good in the apartments, and it's like he's walking on high heels. How low it takes to fall to allow such a lie. Julia Volodymyrna cannot walk, sit, stand, but for the penitentiary service, the court, the prosecutor’s office, her health is satisfactory. However, despite her requirement to be present in court, she is not delivered there, and the case is promptly heard for her absence. The leader of the opposition physically and morally wants to be destroyed. What is the value of the second arrest confined to the bed of Timoshenko so that the defendant will not be able to escape the investigation and the trial? The 12-hour trial in the S.E.L.C.C., what is this, no abuse, a humiliation of human dignity? Can there be such a court in a rightful democratic state that wants to go to Europe? In an unrestrained desire to destroy Timoshenko, the authorities use inhuman, cynical, frightening methods. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in its draft resolution, strongly urges that the charges against former government officials be dropped immediately and that the articles behind them be decriminalized. Once again, the case of Timoshenko and her illegal imprisonment took place on the road to Ukrainian integration. This is the conclusion of the summit between Ukraine and the EU. By the way, for the disclosure of personal data, unauthorized shooting, forging videos and slandering guilty persons should be brought to criminal responsibility. Please consider my application a parliamentary request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u5	Eugene Marmazov, Communist faction. Vladislav Lukyanov will be next instead of Zubanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Company of Ukraine has repeatedly drawn attention to the fate of the strategically important Alexandria Storm Complex, which has actually been destroyed and thousands of Alexandrians have been deprived of their livelihood. This was due to the transfer of Minugleprom and the State-owned property fund Alexanderiaugol to private commercial entities with no experience in the coal sector. Their hostesses resulted in the total destruction of both briquette factories, the only mining wax factory in the country, the flooding of the incision, the melting of the underground energy grid in scrap metal, and the destruction of a large number of unique mountain equipment. The Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization needed enormous efforts to ensure that State-defunct leases were phased out. But this did not lead to normalization. It affects the irresponsible attitude of high public officials to protect the interests of the State and their indignant indifference to the needs of the people. Many of our commissions have made decisions, including at the level of the Government, both the former and the present, but have not been implemented. Officials who have caused billions of losses to the State have not been held accountable. Citizens of the city, city council, parliamentary commission receives formal bureaucratic receipts from the Government, the Office of the President, the Office of the Attorney-General. Even President Yanukovic's mandate to address the issues of the Alexandria complex was not fulfilled, as a result of a visit to the Kirovograd region more than a year ago. Apparently, there is no monitoring of the performance of the President's mandate in his office. The true state of affairs of the head of State is not informed. In Alexandria, however, frustration in the current authorities reaches a limit, the city's inhabitants are desperate, have lost faith that their legitimate demands will be met, and vital problems will be solved. People are ready for anything. In view of the severity of the situation, please consider my request to President Yanukovic, whom I urge personally to intervene, to exercise political will and state firmness to address the problems of Alexandria. The Government urgently requests that we identify ourselves from the future Alexander Storm complex without delay with respect to the payment of the wages of the miners, which is almost 50 million bracelets, contributions to the Pension Fund, the issuance of work books to retired workers, the employment of people who have lost their jobs, and the provision of homes for families of miners. It's just before winter. To take decisive action to bring to justice officials whose actions led to:
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u7	Microphone. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u8	This has led to the destruction of the entire domestic economy and the violation of the legal rights of workers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u9	Vladislav Lukyanov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up is Basil Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u10	Dear citizens of Ukraine! In preparing the budget for consideration in the Supreme Council, a number of factors were worked out by the Committee on Budget Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and by representatives of the Government and the Cabinet of Ministers, which are decisive in preparing the budget for consideration in the Supreme Council. First of all, we've been looking at the problem of the crisis of countries that are near our borders, which are our economic partners. This is primarily true of the debt crisis in the countries of the European Union. This is a debt crisis and a difficult situation in Italy, Greece, Portugal, Spain. And despite the very acute situation in countries with which Ukraine has up to 30 percent of its external trade, we could not. We also considered the internal situation. And if we compare the macroeconomic indicators that were set out in the 2011 budget and the actual economic performance of 10 months 2011, we see that the growth rate of gross domestic product, i.e. the growth rate of the economy as a whole, is slightly exaggerated. The budget has 5 percent, reaching 5.3 percent. This figure, this indicator is confirmed by the increase in energy consumption, is increased by the increase in freight. And so we see that the economy is actually recovering and taking turns. This may raise the question, What difference does it make? Why we do not feel these positive changes so well on ordinary, average citizens, on our own. And you can also look at the situation here, and we see that the new government team pays off external debts each month for about 8 or 9 billion dollars. The previous team received the same amount of external loans each month. So we see that, given the repayment of external debt, the decrease in the cost of borrowing, we are still able to maintain the level of growth in the economy. What's more, next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u12	In 2012, there was a series of increasing social indicators. On average, there is a 14 - percent increase in the social performance of pensions. The minimum wage increases to 20 to 25 percent. There is a 25.6 - percent increase in wages in the budget area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u13	Thank you. Basil Blackney, faction of the People's Party. Dmitry Schlemko will be next instead of Shustik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow MPs! No matter what questions we consider in this room, no matter how important or meaningful they may be, perhaps the most important are, there will be a question of health and human life. As evidenced by yesterday’s discussions on health - related laws. The World Health Organization draws attention to the seriousness of the health situation in our country. There are many reasons for this. First, it's a low quality of health care received at all levels of medical care. Unfortunately, there is no huge imbalance in access to health care at the level of various territorial and administrative units, especially in rural areas. Practically complete is the absence of the promotion of a healthy way of life as the purpose of a person’s life. Regrettably, Ukraine retains a backlog from the world’s leading countries, with an indicator of financing the health component, the health component of GDP. According to the WHO European Bureau of Health in the State Budget in recent years, 4 percent of GDP does not reach GDP when in developed countries in Europe, let's say: Sweden – 12 percent, Germany, Norway – 9, Faction – 10 percent, in the United States – even during a crisis period of 13 percent. The People’s Party’s faction believes that bills that are tabled for Parliament’s consideration concerning health care should work primarily for national health, since this is a matter of national security. Here's the conclusion. We need to take more radical measures to improve the situation. We must create conditions in which the social consciousness of citizens would create increased demands for responsibility for their own health, a priority for a healthy lifestyle, as a need for time, a social concept that, along with others, would include medical prevention measures based on an integrated approach. One of the perspectives of activity and the preservation of citizens' health, we believe, is the improvement of sociopsychological rehabilitation, the dissipation of the population at the primary level of medical care, the introduction of mandatory monitoring of the measurement of arterial pressure, cholesterol content, blood sugar to warn cardiovascular and vascular pathology, heart attacks and strokes. In doing so, especially among the men and women of the workforce, all businesses and organizations should be set up independently of their forms of ownership. In order to achieve a tangible improvement in quality, availability of health care, the public health budget spending already this year should be at least 7 percent, and in the coming years this figure should increase, as this is a matter of national security. We believe that a significant positive shift can only be achieved if the whole economy does not work in medicine, all from the central authorities of the state to the local governments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u15	Thank you. Dmitry Schlemko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Vladimir Moses will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u16	Dmitry Schlemko, "BUT" faction, "Fathership", Galicina, Ivano-Frankivsk, Ternopil, Lviv. I focus on this because I’m not just going to talk about her. It was not easy for a historical fate to fall to parts of the land in the west of Ukraine, namely, Galicina. But all the times of the people who lived here have distinguished the struggle for a country of their own, so even to this day the Galicans are called bandits. Today, when the Ukrainian independent state has been on the political map for 20 years, there are enough Ukrainian haters in the Party of the Regions who in color divide our country into varieties, and now they have decided to reap it. Recently, one of the regional leaders, the odinous Ukrainianophob Tobacco, said of the Galicians: "Today, as in 1941-1945, there are only us and them, civilization and savagery, culture and barbarism," and this is, think of all, the descendants of the great King Danil Galicsky. Galicians have not forgotten the aggressive and belligerent words at their address and the Kolesnik region. And for days, another corner of Moscow in the Baldiriev Region Party decided to point to Galicina, and I quote, "Galicina is a cut on the body of Ukraine. I want Ukraine to get rid of Galicina." I don't appeal to a psychiatrist, I ask myself and everyone. Why does the Party of Regions hate Galicina, her common people? Did her leaders think twice about this by declaring war on Galicina? The answer is quite concise: Not only do they love Galicina but they also love all of Ukraine. Galicina in the Party of the Regions is very special because they are in the spirit of being proud, and no Galician will stand before the Doña authorities on his knees, speak the national language, vote for the national democratic forces, and in the last presidential 90 percent cast their votes for Julia Timoshenko. The Party of the Regions team realizes that it is virtually impossible to change things for their own benefit in Galicina if you even put all your daughters in power here. The reason is quite simple: Galicians, like most Ukrainians, love and respect those who speak the truth about this authority, billionaires, and multimillionaires, who capture everything they can, money, real estate, nadra, especially for their children, relatives, loved ones, and oligarchs, who despise European values, avenge political opponents. Regrettably, not all have the courage to make this statement openly, for a repressive vehicle is being driven into the cat’s car by those who have become. With this power. Today, both the world’s and the country’s communities clearly realize that it is because of their position to speak the truth that 170 days are being tortured behind the bars of opposition leader Julius Timoshenko. In the Kyiv Court of Appeal, the three ladies in the Manti show a court of pharisay. Julius Tymoshenko, not of Galician origin, but of spirit, courage, endurance, and sacrifice in the fight for Ukraine, has a Galician essence. That's why she has such great respect for ordinary Galician Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u17	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u18	Who wants to get rid of the patriotic Ukrainian Galician, I want to remind one historical character of who will come after us with a sword, with a sword, and die. Keep this in mind, tobacco smokers, boulders, and when they are with them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u19	Thank you. Vladimir Moisik passes the right to speech to Jaroslav Kendzior. Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u20	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine!".. Dear Head! Dear fellow national MPs! The Ukrainian society was shocked by the public information about the activity of an unsavory peturist who, with the help of government agencies and some high - ranking government officials, gained the image of a man with extraordinary abilities and the image of a brilliant doctor of neurosurgery. Today this granite genius, thanks to the journalistic investigation of the newspaper Express. Today, at least 10 deaths have been reported, and this passage of Andrew Slusarczuk is on his conscience. It's exciting today to read about how this adventurer of modern-day Ukrainian history has crippled students, children, inflating them with psychotropic drugs and drugs, and then giving them to the high-ranking orgy of the high-ranking and lion officials, including prosecutors, and militias, and judges, and. I don't know if he was just using the minister's services, today's Minister of Education, Comrade Tobacco, with whom. It's not an empty word either, but this official, this minister, has been particularly involved in creating an image, not a simple one, but a genius, as it were, the figure of this pseudo-surgeon, Andrew Slusarczuk. Now, consider this, dear colleagues, that when this adventurer was behind bars, the officials of the Ministry of Education were still proving to journalists that all the diplomas were: and it's said that the Moscow University of Medicine, Vinnicki, the professor's certificate, the doctor of science -- they're real, they're real. And today, when we analyze what happened, because it's also one of the ways that we're bound to the Minister of Tobacco, and we know it's the representative of the Party of Regions, how the Party of Regions is destroying Ukraine in a humanitarian way, this man who's bound to the Tobacco Party, to the representative of the Party of Regions, in a kind of way destroyed Ukrainian youth. And that's why I'm addressing the President of the State today, the Prime Minister of the State. President Tobacco founded the award of the state’s prize to this adventurer. Send this through immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u21	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Popescu will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! We, as representatives of the House of Representatives of Reforms for the Future, which we stress once again: the country needs to be reformed. We don't focus on ideological orientation, in terms of right, left, overpowered and opposition, even though we refer ourselves to the centrist forces. But the main feature of our position is the orientation of creative work and community service. Ukraine needs its own model of economic development, taking into account all its national characteristics and the current assessment of geopolitical factors. Unfortunately, we must note that the characteristics of today's economic state of our nation are mass unemployment, low living standards of the population, spillovers abroad of capital, labour resources and intelligence. Productive potential remains deformed and outdated physically and morally. The country is highly dependent on the export of low-processing raw products and on the import of high-tech energy products and consumer goods. If in the early years of independence these shortcomings have been a manifestation of inherited deformities from Soviet times, 20 years from now it is not worth talking about, for this reason cannot be accepted. Therefore, in order to contribute to the development of entrepreneurship and to improve the interaction of the state and market relations, the MPs of the Reformed for the Future consider it necessary to pay attention to those reform steps that have not yet begun. First of all, we're talking about reanimation of applied science in Ukraine. Think about the times when the government, the government itself, the order was the only source of emerging technology in Ukraine and when a large number of applied institutions, scientific and research institutions were working for the high-tech sector. Of course, we should pay attention to the reform of the education system. Including raising young people in the spirit of a national patriotic idea. The implementation of a balanced policy on energy dependency today needs constant attention. As for the land issue, the food security of Ukraine. So today, I would like to pay attention, except for the factors that are being addressed to this particular parliament, not enough to realize the food danger in Ukraine. So we must finally understand that an economic policy that is not subordinated to a single state-building strategy that is not designed to realize national interests is doomed to defeat. That's why the MPs of the Reforms for the Future are calling for all of us to unite at this idea. Otherwise, our offspring will have no reason to remember us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u23	John Popescu passes the right to speak to a colleague. Please, Leonid Kojara.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u24	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! There was talk of various false professors, chiromantics, and so on. So I would like to remind the honourable representatives from Our Ukraine that it was President Yushchenko who loved such professors and chiromantics. So the charges against us sound strange. On December 19th, the 15th summit of Ukraine, the European Union, took place in Kiev. The summit concluded that a joint statement containing several important provisions for Ukraine had been adopted. First, the joint statement identifies the conclusion of the negotiations on the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, an integral part of which is the Free Trade Agreement. This opens the way for initialing and signing. Secondly, the European Union’s recognition of the European identity of our state is of exceptional importance for Ukraine’s further European integration. This shows that the leaders of the European Union have listened to the opinion of the European Parliament, which declared Ukraine a European state and, in accordance with Article 49 of the EU Treaty, can apply for membership in this organisation. Thirdly, key issues of a political nature were discussed at the summit in relations between the two countries, including the implementation by the Ukrainian authorities of internal democratic reforms. Four. The Summit faithfully placed emphasis on the initialling of the Association Agreement, which has recently been the case in Ukraine with unwarranted politics. The summit confirmed that the initialling of the Association Agreement is a purely technical process that has its own independent, political process algorithm. The EU Party shall not impose the deadlines for the completion of the initialling of the agreement depending on any political motive. Fifth. The European side positively assessed the results of the work of the Ukrainian authorities from the implementation of the first phase of the Action Plan for Liberalisation by the European Union of the visa regime for Ukraine. We also welcome the conclusion of negotiations to amend the existing Agreement between Ukraine and the EU on visa facilitation, in particular through the negotiations, agreement on a visa-free regime for holders of service passports, on a substantial expansion of the category of citizens who will be entitled to free visas. Finally, there will be no practice when our citizens have been given so-called multiples, in paws, visas for 10 days or a month. When changes to the agreement become effective, multiple visas will be issued with a clear deadline of between one and five years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the time for the performance is up. The Baldiriev People’s Deputy has the right to a replica, since his name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Patriotism is not a fluke from this rostrum, it's a job. Who do we have in the country of patriots? Donbass's people, for example. In the 2012 budget, which was considered here on first reading and will soon be considered in the second, the direct exemption from the budget of the city of Donetsk in 2012 will be 1 billion 200 million. And where will that money go? Well, of course, for the social needs of Galicina citizens. Which one of us is the patriot? That's the first one. Second. How did you, my dear Galicina, come to be part of our country? Through a centuries-old struggle? Nope. You're part of our country because the tanks that were made in Ural, where the Ukrainians were sitting, reached Berlin. Therefore, as a result of the victory in World War II, the Soviet Union has joined us. These are the facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down and ask the National MPs not to show their knowledge of history here, and to come out of one principle that there is no extra-terrestrial country in Ukraine, we are the only nation, the only nation. And stop shouting, all of you, I beg of you. With regard to the proposals made in the speeches of the national MPs who need an appropriate response and who require the MPs to form as MPs, I ask the secretariat to prepare the relevant documents. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the issues set out in the December 21st schedule. We need to consider ratification. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Legal Status of Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0234]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:36:01]] For 227 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Social Policy, Colomietz Viacheslav Mikolaiovich. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Belarus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft law of Ukraine provides for the ratification of the Convention on the Legal Status of Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States, signed on behalf of Ukraine on 14 November 2008 in Chisinau. The implementation of the law provides for a convention to take effect for Ukraine, which, in turn, will facilitate effective regulation of labour migration flows. The Convention guarantees the rights of migrant workers and their families at the level of citizens of the receiving party in accordance with its national legislation, in particular with regard to the rights to: safe working conditions, equal work levels, wage-based housing, social security, compulsory social insurance against accidents in production and occupational diseases, compensation for damage to life and health as a result of an accident in production or occupational illness, access to other paid employment, general education and additional vocational education, and other fundamental rights. The Convention provides for the right of migrant workers to receive, free of charge, information from the competent authorities of the SND States on the manner in which they exercise their rights and freedoms, the conditions for their stay and the exercise of paid employment, the rights and obligations arising from the legislation of the host party. The ratification of the convention will enhance the protection of the rights of Ukrainian migrant workers and their families in the territories of the States participating in the Commonwealth of Independent States. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u29	Thank you, please sit down, Viachelav Mikolaiovich. The chairman of the committee has the floor for the report, Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u30	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered all the materials presented by the government. Including the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Legal Status of Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States, introduced by the President of Ukraine [[Document 0234 of 09.11]] Despite the fact that Ukraine is not a member of the SND, but a founding country, it is interested in solving the social problems of migrant workers. The project envisages the ratification of the Convention on the Status of Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families by all States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States. Recruiting the document will enable effective regulation of labour migration flows between Ukraine and the SND member states. With a view to bringing their size, orientation, structure and composition into line with the interests of Ukraine's socio-economic development. The main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion, supported ratification. The Committee on Budgets concluded that the bill would not have a negative impact on the State budget. The Committee on Social Policy and Work decided to recommend ratification of the convention. The government claims that the implementation of the convention will not result in additional financial and material costs. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u31	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u32	Ratify the convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u33	Yes, thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for an exchange of information regarding this document. Names of the national MPs, please. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Then Volodymyr Zubanov will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u34	Oleg Zurbinski, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I have the text of this convention in my hands. I can say that Ukraine should join it. In addition, it is written qualitatively, from the point of view of the International Contracts Act, except that there is a sufficiently quality glossary, the definition of terms is modern enough, there are such dispositions that are directly advantageous when ratifying this convention, when Ukraine is joined by Ukraine itself. And they apply primarily to chapter III of the Convention on the Fundamental Rights of Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families. In addition to those moments that are convenient for Ukraine, more specifically for those of us who are forced to work abroad because of a particular economic situation, a social situation. In addition to what the legislators have said, I would like to point out that article 6 has very important points. There he is. That is, the convention provides and guarantees a level playing field for equal work, including the maintenance of benefits and compensation for those entitled to them. That is to say, Ukrainian workers, who we hope are temporarily working abroad today, are legally determined to receive the same wage for the same work. This, by the way, is not the case for Ukrainian migrants in a number of countries, including, unfortunately, the European Union. This is an important legislative position, and we will expect it to be a guarantee. One second. Social insurance is provided for Ukrainian migrant workers. That's what you should say. And the third moment, I'd like to emphasize it in particular. Reparation for the damage caused by life and health as a result of an accident in manufacturing abroad. So, in summary, I want to say that the situation of this convention is right, convenient for Ukraine and for our workers abroad. It's worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u35	Vladimir Zubanov refers the right to speak to John Popescu, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Leschchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u36	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, the Party of the Regions supports the conclusions of the professional committees and supports the ratification of the convention, as this is, and the main point is, and this has been discussed by our colleague Zarubinski, this will ensure a level playing field for migrant workers, their family members and citizens of the receiving party in the SND countries according to their legislation, international obligations and the creation of favourable conditions for the relocation of workers by the territories of the parties that will contribute to the protection of the rights of our citizens working in the SND countries, as well as the rights of members of their families. As a result, the Party of Regions will vote in favour and urge you to also support ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u37	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u38	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, according to various figures, about 7 million Ukrainian citizens are looking for a better fate abroad, mainly in Western Europe. True, there are also in the territory of the member states of the SND. They strengthen the economic base of foreign nations, pay taxes there, and in most cases they are illegal, abused, humiliated, exploited. Therefore, they must be protected. The Communist faction believes that the draft Law ratification of the Convention on the Legal Status of Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States must certainly be ratified. But that's not the point. The main thing is to create jobs in Ukraine. Because there are huge numbers of factories and factories, especially local ones. Once destroyed, a factory base of once strong local agricultural enterprises. A number of herbivores are now growing in weeds and vines. And where is our traditional animal industry? Unemployment among peasants sometimes reaches 100 percent. This will stimulate labour emigration. Today’s magnets do not think about jobs for peasants. Their thoughts are aimed only at sucking out of the earth in a short time. And there, even though the grass doesn't grow. Thus, Communists believe that the President, government, and parliament must take care of the workers who live on our land first. And I propose ratification of the Convention on the Legal Status of Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense. Then there's Andrew School. Then there's Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u40	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Let us take a close look at this convention. Will I call and ratify? Yes, I will. But I'm asking you to think about it. Why have we for three years not ratified this convention for more than three years?Oh, my God! What, to get far from government to the Supreme Council? Did we not understand the importance of this issue? No, I get it. But what we have to say is that we are now told that the interests of our migrant workers will be protected. Well, first of all, they're not protecting themselves because we're pushing out, not us, and you're the government, you're pushing out your citizens today to make a living in other countries. This is the first time. It's different. See how you determine who a migrant worker is? This is, first, a person who resides permanently on one side's territory, second, legally located, and third, legally engages in paid employment. And where did you see them there, working on legitimate grounds? That's not where they're being formed, that's the question. Thus, our people will remain unprotected. That's the first one. The other one. Let us see why Kazakhstan, where such mixed events are now taking place, suddenly makes a warning regarding article 7, paragraph 1, of national legislation. But because it's about education and health care, that's why. And that's why I'm surprised when they say that this law is worthless and there's not going to be any money, it's just not calculated. And the next. We really need him after the state has determined in Yanukovich and Azarov's person that they're going to Asia. They've come to Asia, ladies and gentlemen! That's why it's not the Donbass people who are allowed into Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u41	Thank you. Andrew Schlell, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u42	I ask you to pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u43	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, a few warnings or thoughts about the meaningful part of the document. Indeed, it is very important that we be assured of the countries that have signed this document, not just the rights, freedoms, social protection of our people. For us, it is becoming relevant, especially in the territory of the Russian Federation, for the implementation of article 8. What it says is that the parties do not allow cases of slavery, of any other subjugation, of forced labour, of torture, of cruel and such that it degrades the honour and dignity of man, of attitude or punishment, of migrant workers, of their families. I spent almost a year trying to find someone who went to the Russian Federation to make money. It turns out that a whole group of Ukrainian citizens are actually working in slavery in the Russian Federation, and it's very hard to figure out how to get them out of there. Same situation with the robberies. A lot of the killings and robberies of our people that are there. On the other hand, there is another problem. A large number of employees from other countries are active in the underground market. Take these paphos we've been building lately, you can find in the press that there are a lot of buildings where people from other countries work for less pay, including Central Asia. So I think that we should regulate and regulate this Agreement with our people and with the citizens of other states. And in shape. I'm curious if the reporter will tell me if the Russian Federation ratified the convention because without the ratification of the Russian Federation it's not worth anything, it's going to be like the free trade zone that we ratified and they refused to ratify. So this is a fundamental issue of mutual ratification and implementation by all the signatories to this very important convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u45	Taras Chernobyl, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! At our meeting, we also considered the matter. Of course, there is no doubt that ratification is necessary. Moreover, ratification is needed without hindrance because it is fundamental justice when family members of official migrant workers are entitled to both education and health care. As far as I know, the Russian Federation did not make warnings on this matter, as Kazakhstan did. So in this respect, there's a kind of parallelity here. The second point I want to point out. This Agreement is very necessary, but it only partially solves the problem, it applies to legally working migrants. In the same Russia, they're basically people who work for energy, people who are involved in international projects of the Russian Federation, where we went, unfortunately, the same Busher project in Iran, etc. For these people, this Agreement really gives guarantees. For the vast number of people who work in construction, in care and so forth, in agriculture, this Agreement, unfortunately, does not solve anything yet. That's why the government shouldn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u47	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u48	And we should, indeed, make sure that, as we now do with the Czech Republic, we have a dialogue, with a number of European countries, with Portugal and so on, that the legalization of the work of people working in other fields is fully foreseen today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u49	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. May I have your attention, please? The proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Legal Status of Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States is put to the vote. [[Registration number 0234]] Please vote. [[10:52:59]] For 309 Decision taken. Thank you. I announce for consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[10:53:32]] For 239. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the Public Shareholders' Board of the National Export and Import Bank of Ukraine, Mikola Mikolaiovich Udovicenko. The correspondent is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I have the honour to present to you the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The project is a continuation of the second 2006-2011 export development project, which is recognised as one of the best projects of the World Bank in Ukraine and is currently being completed. Additional funding for export development is $150 million, loans from??? IBRD for up to 30 years with a 6-year benefit period. The project is aimed at providing medium- and long-term investment loans to enterprises with the aim of contributing to the development of exports with a given value. The implementation of the project will also have a positive impact on the national banking sector, as Ukrainian commercial banks participate with the Ukreximbank and credit the exporters of Ukrainian goods and services for objectively worked with the World Bank and relevant ministries with acceptance criteria. Such a project implementation scheme will cover more enterprises in different sectors of the economy. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u51	Thank you. Have a seat. Please. Committee head Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u52	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs in the process of a long and rather complex discussion considered the draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and recommended that the Supreme Council approve the bill as a whole. The effectiveness of the Guarantee Agreement will enable the joint project to be implemented with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in which the Ukreximbank stock company will engage the bank's 150 million-dollar credit resources to further support the development of the export activity of the private sector of the Ukrainian economy through the provision of medium and long-term financing to finance the lending of the needs of businesses in negotiable funds and investment financing, the provision of access for enterprises to cheaper resources. According to the document submitted by the bank, implementation of the project will not require additional costs of the State budget of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert management considers it possible to ratify the Guarantee Agreement. Please support the committee's decision to ratify this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign in. Raise your hand. Names of the national MPs, please. Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! We also considered this ratification at a faction meeting. And we have come to the conclusion that there is a need to support it. This is a case where it's not about direct borrowing by the state, which the state should then give. This is about the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which itself is seriously monitoring, what are the objectives, how the funds it lends are used, and where the borrower of the State Export and Import Bank, which already provides in its contracts with the recipients of the direct loan data, and yet the EBRD's loans for today are the most favourable loans, the assumption of the risk itself. So in this case, the state guarantee actually falls not on the state, but on the Ukreximbank, from the money that it gets in the service of the loan directly. Therefore, our parliamentary group believes that, in the circumstances in which a number of government-funded investments have been made, a number of projects have not yet been able, unfortunately, to fund ourselves from the budget, we are still unable, unfortunately, to provide government loans for these purposes, obviously logically, for the benefit of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This scheme, which is now proposed and in this particular agreement, has been supported repeatedly by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Sometimes there are questions except the size of the margin between those costs, those interest rates, the interest rate at which the EBRD loans for the Ukreximbank are made available to the borrowers, the recipients of the loan in Ukraine. But in our view, these are technical questions. And the deal itself is really convenient, it's contributing to the development of both business and state projects in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u55	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u56	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, when a contract is offered with a six-year benefit period of 30 years, obviously any country agrees to such terms because they are actually beneficial. That's the first one. The other one. Normal countries do everything they can to promote and stimulate export potential. When spoken, and according to the content of the agreement to support domestic enterprises in the sense of their export potential, their export capacity is obviously also convenient. Second position. And the third. Or a third. This is not the first guarantee agreement. Similar agreements were signed in 1997 and 2006. I think it would be very useful in our Parliament to support this agreement, because I said it's convenient, and my colleagues confirm it, and still find out the results of similar safeguards when we took money to develop exports in 1997, 2006, which was clearly correcting both the banking sector and the implementing structures, how and how these agreements are being used effectively or implemented. I think if the relevant committee did this kind of analytic work, it would be very useful for all the deputies, and maybe we'd sign even more favorable agreements or not sign them, by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u57	Yuri Karmazin is referring to Stanislav Arzevetin, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u58	The honourable national deputies must no doubt ratify the treaty. Because a long-term 30-year loan with accepted interest rates, improved investment in the country, especially in the face of a crisis, replenishment of the company's circulation costs, and these costs can become an investment form of direction, which is particularly important right now. This loan is aimed at improving the environment, improving the production environment, and so forth. And no doubt, the beneficiary or borrower of Ukreximbank as one of the best public financial institutions will handle this loan professionally. Some remarks. Of this agreement, unfortunately, it is not possible to determine what percentage policy at the time of issuing this loan, which percentage policy will be for consumers, i.e. customers. On the basis of this, it can only be seen that the real sector of the economy has to pay 67 million dollars or 522 million dollars for this loan. You can't see what the margin would be if this loan was given to other commercial banks. Whether there will be speculation or not, unfortunately, there will be no such thing as speculation. I also share the idea of how the previous speaker should, however, at least once provide the deputies with information on previous loans, which is a cumulative result. And the main thing is what I'd like to say. Recently, the Cabinet of Ministers has registered the Ukrainian Law on State Financial Support for Expert Activities, and we have not yet considered it, but this law provides for the actual creation of an alternative to "Ukreximbank", i.e. the creation of a state within the Cabinet of Ministers of the State Financial Institution of the Expert Credit Agency. The question is, Why? If we have a professional Ukreximbank, why build another state credit institution, spend money on it? Although we know that 16 financial institutions today have problems. Why raise another one? Please consider this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u59	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u60	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'll be as brief as I can be. Ratification of this agreement will allow Ukreximbanka, which is a state bank, to engage the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development with a total of $150 million over 30 years to support the development of the export activity of the private sector of the Ukrainian economy, by providing medium and long-term financing for the needs of negotiable enterprises and investment financing, by allowing enterprises access to cheaper resources. This, in turn, will contribute to development, including exports and our economies as a whole. Since this agreement is convenient for Ukraine, the Party of Regions will speak in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The MPs in their speeches put the problem of what it would be worth getting information on how the loan laws were being implemented. I ask the secretariat to prepare an appropriate commission for the Cabinet of Ministers regarding all the documents that have been adopted, how these laws are being implemented, and where the funds are being channelled. Dear colleagues, the proposal for a committee to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is put to the vote. [[Registration number 0240]] Please vote. [[11:05:45]] For 295 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose to you the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic on Social Security. [[Registration number 0238]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[11:06:22]] For 232 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Social Policy Viacheslav Mikolaiovich Kolomiyec. Correspondent is the deputy head of the European Integration Committee, Stepan Volodymyrovich Kurpil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u62	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The agreement between Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic on social security was signed on 7 July 2009 with the aim of resolving the issue of social security for the citizens of both States. The agreement will regulate, in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, the payment of payments under Ukraine’s mandatory public social insurance, relating to temporary incapacity, pregnancy and childbirth, funeral aid, industrial accidents, occupational diseases and deaths for these reasons, unemployment, retirement, disability due to the loss of a breadwinner, for the benefit of years, in accordance with the legislation on compulsory public pension. In addition, payments are made in accordance with Ukrainian legislation on State aid to families with children regarding the birth of a child and the care of a child until it reaches the age of three. According to Portuguese legislation, payments are made under social security schemes that apply to most employees and self-employed persons and schemes of voluntary participation of the insurance system in the event of sickness, motherhood, parenthood and adoption, occupational diseases, unemployment, disability, age and death. In addition, making payments under a family cost scheme, a system of social protection for citizens, and a compensation scheme for damage caused by an accident in production. The adoption of the bill will allow for the implementation of the domestic procedures necessary for the agreement to take effect. Ratification and acceptance of the treaty will enable more than 35,000 Ukrainians who are currently legally employed in Portugal to obtain social security under Portuguese legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u63	Finish up, please. Do you have everyone? Thank you. Stepan Volodymyrovich Kurpil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u64	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill proposes to ratify the Agreement between Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic on Social Security, signed in Lisbon on 7 July 2009. The agreement applies to the legislation of Ukraine in such areas as: social insurance relating to disease, temporary incapacity, pregnancy and childbirth, maternity, burial aid, accidents at production, occupational diseases or death for these reasons, unemployment, retirement at age, disability and the loss of a caregiver, for years under the legislation on compulsory state pension insurance, as well as State aid to families with children in the event of the birth of a child and care of a child before reaching the age of three. With regard to the Portuguese Republic, this agreement is applied in the following cases: for the social security system in relation to social security schemes that cover most employees and self - employed persons and schemes of voluntary participation in the insurance system for assigned assistance; for sickness, motherhood, parenthood and adoption, or adoption, occupational diseases, unemployment, disability, retirement and death; for the family cost scheme; for the compensation scheme for accidents in production. The Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration at its meeting on 6 December 2011 reviewed the proposed draft law and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. By making such a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u65	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u66	National deputies, members of the committee, came from the fact that the ratification of this agreement would contribute to improving the cooperation and protection of our citizens in Portugal and the corresponding Portuguese people in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u67	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Vladimir Yavorovsky faction "BUT" - "The Fatherland", microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u68	Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT, Kirovograd Dear colleagues, dear voters, before the middle of the last century, Portugal was something so distant and mysterious to us, for there was literally a handful of Ukrainians, perhaps those who fled the Stalinic regime then through the free Berlin zone and so forth. But the fate is that today we have a very large Ukrainian segment in Portugal, it reaches about 20,000 people who have moved there -- permanently, temporarily. Personally, I have this very active friend of mine, the head of the sewing factory, who went there to earn a living and came here once and asked if he would come back, said, "Unfortunately, I won't come back, because I live in a peaceful, normal country," and so on. Because of this, I think it's very good, it's very normal that in fact today's vote we're reaching out to our fellow countrymen who are living and working today in Portugal. It's a good thing that we're covering the entire range of child protection and birth, and in case of illness and retirement, and so forth. Because of the fact that this document needs to be voted on, it needs to be ratified, and in this way we will indeed make life and existence easier for our fellow countrymen. However, I am concerned that if you read the explanatory note, Tihypco writes that he was addressing the Ministry of Finance, not difficult to guess why he was addressing. Obviously, there's a very small amount in the budget to cover these expenses. And Tihypco asked for the minister of finance to increase it. However, Finance Minister Jaroshenko firmly refused to do so. That's why I think about what it would be worth to think about and maybe increase that amount because it's unrealistic for it to be a paper and our people to be without their own protection. But it is necessary to vote in favour of this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u69	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future. The next one will act.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u70	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, a respected colleague of the national MPs, is said to be on the road to hell with good intentions, and the road to paradise is marked by good works. It seems to me that by ratifying this agreement now, we will finally do one of the good things that has actually been pushed by the Supreme Council at the last stage because of violent opposition, through the Ministry of Finance and in general official indifference and callousness. I want to make history. As early as 2008, the agreement is signed, it's filed with the previous government, it's signed with the President without the relevant documents, and I think it's deliberately submitted in such a form that it's returned to the government and it's lost there successfully. About a year ago, I was approached by a Ukrainian woman from Carpathian, who lives and works in Portugal, Mrs. Tetjana Ach, who reminded me of this covenant, which the Ukrainian authorities had completely forgotten and wanted to be forgotten by everyone else. Then, over the course of the year, it took at least 10 or 15 of my appeals and from the rostrum of the Supreme Council every time, and in writing to all the senior leaders of the state, at least five times, the Head of the Supreme Council has formally addressed this matter to the government, at least five official appeals have been made to him in writing in the same way. And only then did we finally get, break down this wall of callousness and get to the point where our security is minimal, in which the same Portuguese state, in which Portugal has long since ratified this document, in what is our responsibility to the Ukrainians, Ukrainian citizens, who we have pushed our time abroad because of the lack of opportunity here for them to do a good job at last, to restore justice. I think today, by ratifying this agreement, we're only going to finish the first phase, the second stage is what was said to be followed up so that the funds for the full coverage of this program, this agreement, are really allocated in the budget. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u71	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a pity, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we're considering such matters under a reduced procedure. I'll tell you why. So I'd like to know why since 2009, and I'd like to remind you that since July it was signed, this agreement with the government of that person who is now being judged completely without a crime, under the government of that person who has not been allowed to take advantage of national legislation, and on which yesterday, the judges have made a decision, absolutely scary and wild. It turns out that she turned to the investigative insulator, to the administration, not directly to the court. And she was not delivered. And it will obey without it! Your Honor, I think without you, you will be judged, and you will be judged, including for what you decide to do. And I think there's going to be a force in the person in whose government this treaty was signed to protect their interests. I want to tell you, Your Honor, that this treaty, look, it's written that we need to make the needs of 38 million 695,000. Obviously, this could be too little. Maybe not. But it's a good thing that, even now, we have to ratify today to get it into the budget for the next year. And I'm going to the government. Put it in the budget. Because you've already ruled out that practically, from the process of adopting the budget with your completely pointless budget code, changes to the budget code. And that's what this majority did. You're the one who's ridding yourself of the constitutional significance of the government. As a result, we need to foreknow and help our people today. So that there's the right to the money aid, so that the internship that was here is included. Retirement and child support. Please ratify.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u73	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u74	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! For objectivism. The deal was actually submitted to the President, and this is what Taras Cranvill said in 2009, a government without financial justification. Well, you understand very well when a deal that needs serious expenses is made without financial justification, obviously it's a deal to get it back. She's been brought back. After that, no one was indignant and quietly put it in the drawer. This is for objectivism, including for the previous speaker to know. I want to say it again. When they want to ratify the treaty, they do everything they can to ratify it. When they want to put it under a dress, it is served as it was served in 2009. And the Head of the Supreme Council, we need to know this, five or six times, and that's right, once again, Chernobyl Taras spoke, was providing materials all the time for her to finally enter into this deal. Now. Does it solve all the options, or all the questions, that text of the agreement that it is now? No, and he can't decide. Because Portugal has a fifth type of compulsory health insurance, and there is no compulsory health insurance in Ukraine. Accordingly, all medical issues for our people can't be resolved there, because we, within the country, haven't solved all the issues in this regard. But since I don't have much time, I'm not going to stop in detail for the content of this agreement, I'm only going to say one thing. Our relationship, our respectable colleagues, with Portugal in terms of humane, humane treatment of our migrants can be exemplary. I would like to remind you that in international practice, it was with Portugal that the first international agreements were signed that applied to the normal, human, civilized treatment of our people working there. By the way, from some other countries that teach us everything and our migrants are treated like people of the second or third class. So we can, in this respect, in terms of social security, the relationship and agreements with Portugal, take as an example to continue to violate it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u75	Thank you. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u76	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Since I only have one minute, I'm going to be as concise as possible. Since the agreement is aimed at developing mutual cooperation in the area of social protection of citizens of Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic and addressing the social welfare of citizens of both States, this is primarily the case with respect to the social rights of citizens of Ukraine who live in Portugal, the Party of Regions will be in favour. The need for ratification is also based on the need to set up appropriate funds in the 2012 budget of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. So if we're going to ratify today, which we're going to do, we should definitely pay attention to that. The price of the issue for Ukraine is 38 million 695,000 dollars per year. Since this will ensure the social rights of our citizens in Portugal, the Party of Regions will stand in favour. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u77	Voline, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u78	Eugenie Volynec, Communist faction, Schachtersk. One of the workers of the Soviet and independent pens spoke. This is where, during such a terrible period of Stalin, Portugal has fled, in particular, a handful, a small handful of our compatriots. It is interesting that, during independence, democracy in places, of course, so to speak, nationalistically-minded Governments are fleeing a large number of our fellow countrymen abroad. And if thieves, bandits, bourgeoises, and people who did not support Soviet power used to run there before, ordinary citizens who are forced to flee are fleeing. And it's not just Portugal, it's Italy, it's Spain. That's why the Communist faction will support this bill. It will support those simple people who are now forced to seek the best share abroad, not in their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic on Social Security is put to the vote. [[Registration number 0238]] Please vote. [[11:23:38]] For 315 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am introducing to your consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on measures related to the development of cooperation in the field of oil transport in Ukraine. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. There is a vote on this motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:24:24]] For 237 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Energy of the Coal Industry Sergey Mihajlovich Czech, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on measures related to the development of cooperation in the field of oil transport in Ukraine is prepared in accordance with the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the internal state procedure necessary for the entry into force of the treaty signed on 28 January 2011 in Davosi, Swiss Confederation, to ratify its Supreme Council. The agreement secured the parties' agreement on the terms, volumes and directions of transporting oil to the Azerbaijani side through the Ukrainian oil pipeline system, as well as the creation of conditions to increase the volume of oil transport in Ukraine. The draft law is designed to ensure that internal procedures for the acquisition of a contract are implemented. The Azerbaijani side has carried out internal procedures for the entry into force of the agreement, which the Ukrainian side has been informed of by a corresponding note from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan since 3 May of this year. The agreement defines the basic principles and principles of cooperation of the parties at the inter-governmental level from the transport of Azerbaijani oil to the territory of Ukraine and creates a legal basis for the development of cooperation and the formation of appropriate contractual relations. In accordance with Article 1 of the Agreement, the Ukrainian Party shall ensure that Azerbaijani oil can be transported by the Ukrainian oil transport system in the following volumes and directions: transit to the oil refinery in Mozir to 8-12 million tonnes per year, transit to Ukraine in the direction of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. [[Belarus]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u81	You all have it, don't you? Thank you. Have a seat, please. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs Presentation and co-reporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u82	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Diversification of energy sources and maintenance of Ukraine's transit status are important imperatives of Ukraine's national strategy. This bill is interesting and is in the national interest of our country. The bill proposes to ratify the agreement that the reporter spoke of on behalf of the Czech government. According to the explanatory note, this agreement does not require additional funding from the State budget. There is a special opinion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which believes that ratification should be carried out taking into account comments on the need to bring the Supreme Council into consideration, along with the draft Act amending the applicable laws of Ukraine in this regard. That the agreement is submitted for ratification in accordance with section 2 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, which provides that ratifications are subject to international agreements of Ukraine, which result in the amendment of certain laws of Ukraine or the adoption of new laws. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, after careful examination of the agreement, concluded that it was subject to ratification, but did not require amendments to existing legislation, since it provided for other rules on the establishment of oil tariffs than those in the national legislation of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u83	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, so, shall we vote for the committee's proposal? Is there no objection? Please sign up. Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future. Then Vladimir Yavorowski will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u84	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Our MPs similarly considered the agreement. And we've come to the conclusion that it really needs to be supported. This is not a new covenant. We have a contractual base that with Azerbaijan defined the possibilities and conditions of oil extraction through separate and Odessa-Bodas, through the Southern Terminal and so forth. But we've seen how old it is and how practical this has been when, in fact, because of the lack of a previous agreement, we've reached the point where the reverse oil pipeline Odessa-Boda began to work. As a result, a very detailed analysis was carried out by both the Ukrainian and Azerbaijani sides -- and a new agreement was adopted that complements the previous contractual basis. In fact, there are specific figures, specific volumes, specific routes, not only filling oil pipelines, but also securing our transit potential, but also guaranteeing the supply of Azerbaijani oil to our oil-processing companies, separately to the Nadwiernian. For all the parameters by which we can evaluate this, the agreement is really a good one for Ukraine. Infiniteness can be argued over certain circumstances and details: Could it not have been possible to place a little more stringent conditions on the Azerbaijani side, more clear guarantees of supply obligations, more serious financial nuances. But we've come to the conclusion that in these circumstances, the energy of a certain famine in Ukraine, the lack of enough diversification, we may not be strong enough to put such conditions on the table, so let's not forget that our Odessa-Boda has very serious competitors. In these circumstances, we've come to the conclusion that the treaty needs to be ratified and that we need to continue to work on the Odessa-Bodas, really, working in an alternate way all the time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u85	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u86	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. First of all, it's a small replica. Here a mechanical soloist sang to us, which was revealed in 1944-1945 by the Portuguese bourgeois. But they were gone, Your Honor, but you killed them somewhere else in 1918-19. Don't be so bitter. Now for a specific ratification. I think it's a really small breakthrough that we've already made a deal with Azerbaijan. Now we're going to ratify it, and I have no doubt about it. This is especially useful and relevant in connection with the secret negotiations that are now taking place in connection with the gas artery that passes through Ukraine. Because of the fact that a number of our oil refineries have actually died and are standing today and instead are either ready or ready for gas and a solar plant. That's why it's so important. I am convinced that this must be supported. I would like to point out immediately, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that the previous ratifications we carried out are in the government, especially with regard to Portugal. We've already talked about how many of our people live there. They lie for 2-3 years, and then they're given for ratification. This ratification is similar from January of the month. I think that these things the government should do super-operable. Because it works for the benefit of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u87	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u88	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, there are two questions that will prompt me to take the floor today. First question. This is what article 3 of this agreement stipulates that since the date of the entry into force of this agreement, the Ukrainian side has set a 50 percent reduction in the rate of port assemblies of vessels with oil from the Azerbaijani side, which are going to carry out cargo operations on the South Sea Oil Terminal. That's good, 50 percent. But what is it? This is the rate of the port congregations falling. So we need to make changes to the relevant legislation. Why don't we? We're going to ratify now, and we're going to execute. Is everything going to be done? Once again, only after the new year will the government of Azar rise after it is happy there now. What this agreement refers to is a matter of national security, of national importance, because it is about ensuring Ukraine's energy security. I'd also like to draw attention to the aspects that we had other things after "Livela." And "The Mirror of the Week" is already in two numbers reporting that Feodosium is transiting mass transportation, smuggling of petroleum products. Because of this, I would like us to hear the President's mandate to hear the responses of the State Customs Service so that we can hear the Ukrainian Security Service on these issues, which relate to Ukraine's very serious energy security. I will vote in favour and urge you to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u89	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u90	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! Symptomatically, when the name of the treaty or the international treaty has the words "transit," "oil" and "gas," it's a matter of special sound, and that's the right thing, because it has to do with two things that, by the way, the previous speaker talked about with security issues, I would say more with economic issues. What has really happened lately? There has been a violation of the Energy Charter, the European Energy Charter, by our Europe partners. Yeah, let's say what we have. The conclusion of the agreement, the actual construction of the North Stream, and then the actual green light for the South Stream, which is transporting energy transit to Ukraine, is a direct violation of the European Energy Charter, not on our part, but on the part of those who are our partners. In such circumstances, I think the issue of security and even more of the issue of the preservation of Ukraine as a transit state is of particular importance. In this case, in all the shortcomings, including the ones that Yuri Carmazin spoke about and was absolutely right about, by the way, because you have to file a set of documents, otherwise you don't know how these agreements are going to work out, he's right about it. So in spite of that, the very moment that we're trying to increase the component transport not only from one country of the strategic partner, but from Azerbaijan. It would be desirable for this to come from Turkmenistan immediately, despite the fact that all the gas is being bought off at the border. These diversification trends need to be strengthened, they need to be supported, and therefore the agreement can be voted on in the absence of speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u91	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The ratification of the agreement will contribute to the development of cooperation in the field of oil transport from the Azerbaijani Party in Ukraine. This will help to increase the volume of oil transport in Ukraine and preserve Ukraine's position as a transit state, which is very relevant in today's energy market conditions. The agreement has a strategic nature for Ukraine and is convenient for our country. That's why the Party of Regions is going to speak for in order to preserve Ukraine's position as a transit state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. For suggestions, including those made by Yuri Karmazin, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. And now, honourable colleagues, the vote is on the proposal by the committee, which, by the way, is supported by our legal services, on the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on measures related to the development of cooperation in the field of oil transport in Ukraine. [[Registration number 0235]] Please vote. [[11:39:31]] For 293 The law's approved. Dear National Deputies, I am announcing before the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Legal Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property and the establishment of an Interstate Council on Legal Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[11:40:14]] For 230 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the State Intellectual Property Service Mikola Vasilovich Palady and co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft of this law has been developed to implement the Plan of Action for the first phase of 2009-2011 of the strategy for the economic development of the SND countries for the period up to 2020, approved by the Decision of the Council of Heads of State Parties of State since 22 May 2009. The purpose of the draft Ukrainian bill is to ratify the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Legal Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property and to establish an Interstate Council on Legal Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property, which was signed at the Council of Heads of State on 19 November 2010 in St. Petersburg by Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov. In accordance with Article 1 of the Agreement, the parties shall cooperate with a view to coordinating joint activities and improving the Interstate System of Protection and Combating Improperty in Intellectual Property: first, to strengthen contacts, to conduct joint research and communication in the field of protection and protection of intellectual property; to exchange information on the laws of the States parties to this Treaty in the field of legal protection, as well as to agree on issues related to the protection and protection of intellectual property in the course of economic, trade, science, technology and culture cooperation in the field of intellectual property, as well as to facilitate the establishment of relevant international agreements; and to implement joint measures to prevent the crime, and to identify and terminate such violations in the area of intellectual property. An integral part of the agreement is the position of the Interstate Council on Legal Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property, which is created in accordance with the agreement. According to the rules of inter-State authority, it creates permanent committees on copyright and adjacent rights. Industrial property, anti-infringement in intellectual property. In view of this, it would be considered appropriate to ratify this agreement, which would allow for the coordination of joint activities within the GNI countries in the area of intellectual property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u95	Thank you, too, sit down, please. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u96	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, intellectual property, is the only hope and guarantee that mankind will emerge from a global permanent crisis over consumption and eventually enter the New Sphere economy. Because intellectual property can't be consumed, it has the mystical ability of multiflation and the future "nuclear economic explosion" of development. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered the draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of the agreement on cooperation in the field of legal protection and protection of intellectual property. And I've come to the conclusion that for Ukraine, this is particularly important, because Ukrainian national intellectual resources are being robbed around the world and it's time to put order in it. According to government documents, the implementation of this agreement will not result in additional financial and material costs for the state budget. The main science-expert management supports ratification. The Legal Policy Committee also supports ratification. After a comprehensive discussion, the Committee concluded and recommended unanimously recommending that the Supreme Council ratify this important agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u97	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the communication of this document. Please log in. Put the names of the national deputies on the board. Sergey Greenewecki, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u98	Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u99	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u100	Thank you, Sergey Raphaelovich. Dear colleagues, Mr. Palady, who introduced this bill, absolutely stopped, well, I think, at the key points of this agreement, at the key points of the problem. Because the creation of just three committees of a sectoral nature, a sector-specific format, where copyright is concerned: one of the other is about adjacent rights and industrial property, and the third of them is about the right of application that covers the whole problem. I'm not saying it solves the problem, but it allows us to track down and control the abuses that are in these areas and minimize these abuses. What's going to be abuse is that what's going to be a breach in intellectual property is a fact. There are some countries that build their economies on this, you know that. But Ukraine has never built its economy on this, because it's always been a donor of intellectual ideas, of scientific ideas, and it's those countries that have both more GDP and more productivity. Well, let's face it, and a better economic intelligence that works in those countries that can be creative in terms of producing intellectual ideas. So as long as Ukraine is not worried about protecting intellectual property, obviously we will only be able to talk about raiding material property. Intellectual property is what will determine the future of a civilized state. We want to be civilized, let's respect people who have intelligence. If someone does not have them, at least respect for those with intelligence is required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u101	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u102	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. It seems to me that over the past 20 years we've destroyed our intellectual property so much that it's only possible to regret that we're just now, in fact, touching this issue and it's going to be created like this, within the SND, there's going to be a service that's going to, well, kind of control over all of these things. I am convinced that, of course, Russia will dominate it first, but you will not go anywhere. But the fact that we're very busy, and Mr. Palady knows it very well today, as our books go out abroad, usually almost no one gets a fee for them. They're just coming out. And they're grateful they're still coming out. I'm not saying that world practice works quite differently. Because 11 countries sign this document, I think they're almost all ratified because it's not clear whether they've already signed it or not. It's very sad, of course, that they don't, because Ukraine isn't a member of the SND, but I think it should be a part of it, very sorry that, of course, there are no Baltic countries, they're more European, and it would be nice to have their voice, let's say, on this council. But what we're going to accept today, I think, is some progress in protecting our intellectual property, and we need to vote for it. Yulia Timoshenko will vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u103	Voline, please, 1 minute. A Communist party. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u104	Eugeny Wolynec, Communist faction, Schachtersk, Donetsk region. Well, at first I'd like to remind a stockbroker who in his day so beautifully praised Soviet power, the communist order, and then began to line up in the skin of a nationalist, that Portugal had been scratched in the 1920s. And I'll tell you, they scratched quietly, no one stopped them at the border, they left quietly. In 1944-1945, people also traveled abroad from Zakarpatya. Well, on this bill, the Communist faction will support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u105	The sand, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u106	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. High-level colleagues, since the ratification of this agreement will have international resonance and ratification, will allow effective mechanisms for the implementation of intellectual property law enforcement and protection, joint measures to prevent, detect and halt intellectual property offences through the creation of an Interstate Council on Legal Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property, which will contribute to the improvement of Ukraine's international image. A party of regions will be in favor. Once again, I want to point out that intellectual property rights and not only in the territory of the SND countries, but in the territory of the entire world society, attention is being paid. So please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u107	Chernobyl, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u108	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will support the ratification of the agreement. But we want to make a certain warning here. Not the deal, but the principle. The point is that we consider it appropriate to have universal, accepted standards throughout the civilized world. And unfortunately, so far, the system of judicial protection, the system of general moral understanding that stealing intellectual property is not possible under any circumstances, is still weak in the post-Radians space. And so for a period of time, as long as those mechanisms that have been adopted in the entire civilized world are working, we need to have this advice. Which will work within the SND. Where we will exchange information where we will generate requirements for other SNE member countries that are illegally using the intellectual property of other States. First of all, unfortunately, Ukraine. As for former Post - Soviet countries, such as the Baltic, this system is already operating in civilized standards. And they don't need to be involved. We support the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u109	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Legal Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property and the establishment of an Interstate Council on Legal Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property. [[Registration number 0237]] Please vote. [[11:52:01]] For 283 Act adopted, treaty ratified. Let's move on to "Inclusion in the agenda of the day session." There is a question of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on the legal regime for the use of agrarian objects]] [[Bill number 9295]] The author of the bill, Arsenius Yatsenuk, reports. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u110	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The only thing left in Ukraine is land. This is the land that today's party of authorities wants to buy for themselves, then sell to a foreigner and get rich. This is the land with which today's authorities want to repeat the same experiment that it did in the early 1990s, actually forming a Party of Regions on State Property, which has been created for decades by the people of Ukraine. Now they want to do the same with land belonging to Ukrainian citizens. True, we still have Ukraine’s gas transport system. And I can't refer to President Viktor Yanukovic's press conference right now. Sadly, he did not say a word about the earth. Sadly, he did not say a word about the price of gas. And I understand that in New Year's Eve, we're going to get another statement from Russia's Gazprom that the price of gas remains $450, that Ukraine wasn't counting on Russia for gas, and that once again the supply of natural gas to the European Union will be at stake. And I think the Russians are going to offer us either a gas transport system or land. That is why a bill is being tabled in Parliament, which does not simply foresee the introduction of a moratorium on land by 2014, when a new parliament will come where the democratic majority will be, and what the bill foresees is, first, the introduction of a mandatory minimum price on land. And this is where I want to stop separately. This price should be no less than in the member countries of the European Union. For example, in Poland today, it is about 3,000 euros per hectare, not 300 euros, as the Party of Regions plans to collect land. The second is the ban on the monopoly on one land bank, which wants to create today's authority in order to advance this land and then through the non-return of these loans, take the land away from the peasants. The third is what it's about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u111	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u112	the limitation of ownership of land in one hand. In view of this, I am calling on you, your honourable colleagues, to accept the given as a basis and not to be able to steal the last thing left in Ukraine is its land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u113	Has the committee considered it? Please, Bebezenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, invited! At its meeting on 15 November, the Committee reviewed the draft Law amending certain legislative acts on the legal regime for the use of agricultural objects submitted by the National Deputy Arsenius Yatsenuk, who proposes to continue the moratorium on the alienation of agricultural land prior to the conduct of state land inventory, the delimitation of state and municipal property and other money. [[Registration number 9295]] The Committee notes that there are currently no legislative grounds for public land inventory. In addition, an undetermined point that will give evidence of the completion of such inventory, which will lead to the impossibility of determining at the time of withdrawal of the moratorium. It should be borne in mind that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted yesterday the Act of Ukraine amending Chapter X of the Code of Land Transitions of Ukraine and suspending the introduction of these lands by 2013. [[concerning the prohibition of alienation and the modification of the target destination of agricultural land]] According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the purpose of accepting these proposals is questionable. In view of the committee's presentation, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to reject. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u115	Yes, sign up for the performance. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I understand someone's running an election campaign is already going over their heads. I understand that a letter published by Yulia Timoshenko put some of the opposition, well, I would say, in a slightly uncomfortable situation, a very uncomfortable situation. I understand that, too, well, I need to know what's in the hall, what's going on in the hall, what's going on outside the election campaign. And the room makes decisions that are absolutely right and thoughtful, like the Electoral Law, we have adopted the left and right parts of the hall, liked someone, disliked them, but voted correctly. We have voted on the Land Market Act, but once again we understand that this law is very difficult and it requires a certain amount of time. We voted yesterday on a moratorium on land sales. At least keep an eye on what's going on under the dome of Parliament. That is why we propose this bill, of course, not to vote and reject it in order not to mix people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u117	Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u118	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Give the word to Tchachu Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u119	Roman Tuck, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u120	Thank God that the previous speaker has certainly reached the most important point – he is already beginning to protect Ukrainian land and all those who live on this earth. And thank God that yesterday at the Supreme Council had sufficient sanity and indeed, to continue the moratorium until 2013. But the question is different. Unfortunately, the previous composition of the Supreme Council has adopted such a standard that the introduction of such a flawed concept as the "earth market" was bound to the adoption of two laws: cadastre and earth market. But this concept is broader. The next question. Today, unfortunately, the Supreme Council did not include in the agenda yesterday, nor did the law on the delimitation of state and municipal property. The earth’s inventory has not been completed today. Today, there is no normative monetary valuation. In the end, not all the infrastructure that is meant to precede the introduction of the land market has been created to date. And so the initiative offered by our colleague Arsenius Petrovich has common sense, for the question is still in the following. The Supreme Council postponed the important thing last week, such as the right to property, because the state registry was not created. And that's why I'm calling for today to adopt this bill in the first reading. Here's the most important rule that the moratorium should continue until 2014. For the next 2012 year, we need to adopt all the legislation, do the proper work: inventory, cash valuation and so on; see how society will see the Land Market Act that we have proposed, and then, as of January 1, 2014, we can talk about the introduction of a real land market. So I'm calling everybody, let's vote for first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, let's finish this discussion and announce a recess. Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u122	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! On that point. You know, I've been recalling this whole story, fighting for land, just changing actors, ever since I came to the Supreme Council. The day I took an oath in 2000 in June-month, we voted first in favour of the Earth Code, from which the whole procedure began. The opposition was, as always, Communists, and the pro was the part of the hall that is now represented by the author of the project. And we fought for blood, and it was the right forces that proved that the earth must be a commodity that was so plundered, that it was a peasant's right, that it was the only way to include any normal market processes in the country and to move to Europe, there was no other way. Something's changed, I guess. But in the author's speech, it was heard that by 2014, "we're going to come to power, we're going to have everything under control by now, so let's sell the land." Well, there's something fake about all this. As for what laws should be adopted: both the land cadastre and other laws, and the assessment of the land and so on, and so on in 2000, I remember everyone saying, "Here we are in a moratorium. We're going to continue, we're going to continue, because we have to adopt these laws." Let us therefore not be misled: the earth is being sold. And at a time when the author of this bill was in high positions of state, including the first deputy head of the President's Administration, there was a huge breakthrough: people who, in legal and not market-based ways, acquired land, managed to double and triple their assets during that period. For the first time, we had latifundists who had over 100,000 hectares. Today there are latifundists who have no longer legalized to the end, but real property that no longer belongs to a peasant, more than 500,000 hectares. Let's put all of this back in the legal field. And when it comes to a civilized market, it needs to be implemented, really, through the introduction of a land cadastre and other laws, not through the kind of focus that we say, let's keep it at a price.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u123	Yavorowski. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, I think Yacenouk has made the problem very clear. And it seems to me that if this document were accepted, even though I absolutely don't believe that the majority would vote for it, if it were accepted, we would put out a safety net so that we really don't do anything stupid. The earth must become a commodity — no one would deny it. And she'll be him. But we just see how haste this is all done. As long as the authorities that understand what they're about to ask, they want to reach the last Ukrainian land fair as far as possible. And the last thing I'd like to say is that we just accepted, ratified, basically, a document about intellectual property protection. So what I'm saying is, I've made a three-pronged decision to make amendments to the moratorium at the end of the day, three times. But yesterday the region, when I stole completely this text of this decree, brought it here, and it was voted. That's an intellectual theft.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u125	Please, Gordienka, the Company, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u126	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Honorable Chairman, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine, Honorable Fellows! Strange things are happening in this session room. And I'm surprised to read such drafts that come from liberal marketers. And of course, the author of the bill, by stealing it. The plagiarism of those bills and those positions advocated by the faction of the Company of Ukraine gave it a pre-election initiative, advertising itself as a political leader of the opposition. That's not supposed to happen. And most of all. The earth must not be a commodity. The company will support any legislative initiative they come from to protect the Ukrainian village and Ukrainian land. We should not trade land. We have to grow produce on it, too. To trade products. That's the only way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u127	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts on the legal regime for the use of agrarian objects. [[Registration number 9295]] [[12:06:07]] Z-71 The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 1, BUT – 18, Our Ukraine – 27, Communists – 24, Reforms and People's Nartia did not vote, non-fractional – 1. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the draft laws on which we need to decide on the inclusion in the agenda. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of a bill on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of citizens' property for debts from residential and utility services is under consideration. The rapporteur and author of the relevant bill is Andrew Pavlovski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u129	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Dear compatriots, your attention is given to a bill aimed at protecting property rights, primarily of low-security citizens. In particular, it is proposed that a moratorium be imposed on the enforcement of property belonging to private property rights to low-security citizens when the courts enforce their decisions to collect housing debt. The bill also proposes to prohibit the compulsory collection of funds from bank accounts for which salaries, pensions, scholarships and other social accounts are paid, provided that the balance in such accounts does not exceed three minimum wages per day. On the other hand, the prescribed bill allows for the avoidance of the payment of housing and utility services for the rich and promotes the protection of property rights for the underprivileged, who for objective reasons cannot pay the bills for the provision of housing services in a timely manner, because we have such a shameful phenomenon as the debt due to the payment of salaries. Thus, the state does not fulfill its obligations to citizens, does not pay its wages on time, at the same time citizens should do so on time, and if they do not, we know that we have abolished the moratorium on foam, take a serious foam, and in addition, valid legislation permits the removal of property. And we know, in the Donetsk region, these experiments were carried out when retired people came to the homes, taking TVs, refrigerators, and other properties. This law makes it impossible. It's designed to improve the grant to poor citizens, to put order there, it was less bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u130	Thank you, too. The committee's going to be giving Maybeard a speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u131	The Committee considered the bill on 7 December this year and decided to return it to the authors for finalization because of such substantive comments. The moratorium does not provide for any time limits, i.e. it is proposed to be indefinite. Consequently, the enforcement of the court's decisions is postponed indefinitely, which does not comply with article 124, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Constitution, which provides that judicial decisions are binding on Ukraine's implementation throughout the territory. The problem identified in the bill should be addressed by improving the subsidy system, not by prohibiting the enforcement of judicial decisions. The draft does not have a mechanism for implementing that moratorium, in particular how the debtor must prove that his property must be released from enforcement, nor do they determine the reasons for their debt. That is, there is no criterion for determining the debtor. It is also necessary to establish a list of assets that prohibit enforcement. In addition, the imposition of a moratorium on the enforcement of assets should be accompanied by a definition of the sources from which debt for housing and utility services provided must be repaid. However, the potential for the deterioration of the financial situation of enterprises that provide services is ignored by the authors. The Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine noted a violation of standard-setting equipment in the drafting of the bill. The Committee on Budget Affairs noted that the implementation of the bill had no impact on budget performance. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour believes that the implementation of the bill would violate the constitutional requirements for binding judicial decisions and invited its authors to return to finalization. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to express your thoughts on this matter, please sign in. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Gennady Zdirko, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u133	Please pass the word to the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u134	Volodymyr Kapleenka? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u135	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you, Gennady Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, you know, the representatives of the MP's Reform for the Future are not indifferent to the Ukrainians and the unprotected types of population that are currently in Ukraine. I'd like to remind you that there's this saying, "Smart Godfather, like a barrel of wheat." Because he was just speaking to a profile committee representative and he said that, well, how can we do that, how can we not impose a moratorium in cases where it doesn't pay, whether it doesn't pay, or whether it doesn't pay for housing services. We do not remember that more than 75 percent of Ukraine is considered poor and that Ukraine is a poor state. And Ukrainians who don't get paid or pensions are enough to feed themselves as a natural person. And to pay for the unregulated ones that we've accepted in this room, housing services and even incomprehensible quality, it's a strange-looking situation. The state has moved away from this problem. And I remind you that some time ago we voted that housing services are not regulated by the state of Ukraine. That is, local self - government agencies regulate tariffs themselves, drive these poor people away and bring them to the pen. Then the question becomes: Either buy milk or bread. And what we're talking about here is that let's take the apartment away from them and make it happen. As representatives of the House of Representatives for the Future, we support this bill by 100 percent, by 20 votes. And we think we need to impose or impose a moratorium on enforcement property if this person is poor. And this law, this law proves, and what is a poor person from the point of view of non-payment of utilities, if there is total income of less than 100 minimum wages, if there is no corresponding money and so on. We'll back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u136	Andrey Pavlowski, please, the Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u137	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please hand it over to Vladimir Yavorowski from the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u138	Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u139	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, dear voters, this law is actually a test. After this vote, and you can very easily verify who is who in the Supreme Council, what he wants and what he comes here for, and whether he fulfills all of his promises that he has rewarded during his election campaign. It's really paradoxical. Because we understand very well that, well, in a normal country, in a normal society, we have to pay for housing, we have to pay for water, we have to pay taxes. And so, obviously, for another country, it would be paradoxical to adopt such a bill. But we live in a paradoxical country, the most paradoxical country that can only be, where people don't pay salaries for months, where minimum pensions are so pitiful, that people are barely enough to tie ropes in their lives there and so on. We live in a society where the meager wages of doctors are scarce and so forth. And that's why. If we don't vote today, and I don't believe much that the regions vote for it, I think the communists vote, at least it seems to me. Because if this law isn't voted out, we're just deliberately increasing the number of bozos. Because it's in the same Donetsk, the capital of our regions, in the same Donetsk today they're literally cleaning people up, all they can do without paying them their wages for months. Because of this, it seems to me that Pavlovsky has made a very good civil gesture that he has prepared such a bill. He's got a lot going for him. This does not apply to rich people, and the law does. Who has, let's say, a hundred minimum wages, who has money in their account. Because some of us are rich, by the way, they don't pay. Because, well, it would seem logical to vote in favour of this law. But we'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u141	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, what does the author suggest today that he is not a doer? And what will be the major losses to the economic budget? Is that a three billion-billion-dollar hole, like Livela did? And they're all sitting right there. Officials on the spot, taxpayers on the spot, and the hole is so healthy. And he's actually offering to do as Ukrainian President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic suggested, who said, "I can hear everyone. Improvements are now." And he promised, and he signed off on the 1200 minimum pension from January 1, 2011. The year 2011 is ending, and the minimum pension does not grow to a thousand. So, like they say, "the kid said the kid answered," and if the kid didn't say the answer, then he'll have to answer for the market. So it's not the Donbass people's fault. Dear friends, what is proposed in this bill? Two things. First, it is suggested not to remove property from these people by force, who were unable to pay their rent because they had either lost their job or found themselves unemployed and who was not subject to the law. And it does not extend to those debtors whose total income, along with their families living with them, exceeds 100 minimum wages per year. That's why I think the law is completely reasonable. And I'm convinced that Victor Fedorovich, if you consult with him, will also give you the excuse to vote in favour. Mr. Chechetov, I'm asking you to give the right team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u142	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u143	I have a request, Vladimir Mikhailovich. If you could get some kind of sound director on the remote, you could go crazy here when Carmazin comes out of the stands. Now this lining has shuddered, immediately disintegrating. Jura, what are you yelling at? Dear colleagues! Let us treat social bills calmly and with balance. First. Moratorium. The Moratorium foresees either for a time or under certain conditions. It's not here. We spoke about this to Paul’s colleagues on the committee. If he suggested that the bill should be sent for further work, it would be normal. Next. Now there was much talk about poor people. Today, rent for residential services is 98 percent of the number of citizens. Who doesn't pay?Oh, my God! Look who you're protecting by this bill. 100 minimum wages. Multiple a thousand four bracelets-- 100,000 dollars a month! Is that a poor man?Oh, my God! Well, what kind of poor person is he? Today, it is those people you seem to be trying to protect that are the first ones to pay. Nice to meet you. I'm very sorry that people working on a committee on social policy and just waving their hands, who don't understand the essence of social policy, have to realize -- we have to create a single system in the state to monitor the provision, the provision of services. So that the authorities of local self - government know clearly, which is what it costs, what it costs. Then we won't have such a stupid thing to do when in different district, district centers, the price of housing services is at a loss, absolutely unattainable! This bill was written in 2009. I've reported to you in this rostrum. I'm very sorry that today's opposition has turned its powerful, normal, powerful potential into pairs, into whistles, rewriting old drafts and issuing here from this rostrum for some truth of the last instance. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u144	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u145	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Nigga. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The Ukrainian company has been implementing projects called "Robota-Zarlata-Protector" and "Control-Justice is a communal attack by communists for a long time. During this particular work, it was confirmed that the debt for salaries and pensions and the debt for housing services were closely linked. How, then, can a person be counted if he is not counted? State subsidies don't solve issues. And housing companies, through the courts, to pay off their debts, take their property out of the poor. Therefore, the Communist faction supports the inclusion of the draft Law on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of citizens' property for debts from residential services into the order of the day session. Because this is a question the Company has always advocated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Let's go to this problem in a responsible way, and it really does exist. I think in serious preparation, the approach to drafting this bill would be worth examining and asking us, and getting materials that are actually going on with the payment of utilities. And we're going to see an interesting painting that we just talked about. That the least protected sections of the population are paying for community services effectively. And those who can pay don't usually pay them. And obviously we had to propose a differentiated approach in this bill: where there's a debt on wages, we had to give people the opportunity not to pay utilities. Because it's a good idea, but, at the same time, it's implemented in the form of a political manifesto, not an appropriate bill that would benefit the output. So, I think we should make a good law by involving the lawyers in this matter. And as to what will now be the test in which society we live, the honourable colleagues, on the left, on the right and on the center, we live in a society that we and you have worked together to fight. And as for the gesture, I think we're too late for five years. I remember, in 2007-2008, similar bills were being proposed -- they were being blocked, and now it's all the other way around. Let's go out on clear and acceptable, but serious decisions. I'm asking you, did you probably pull something in the morning or something? You come and you start telling these stories. Calm down. That's why I'm putting, honourable colleagues to the vote, a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft law on the imposition of a moratorium on the enforcement of citizens' property for debts for residential services. The proposal to re-read or re-establish the subject of the legislative initiative for pre-processing cannot be implemented if the issue is not included in the agenda. So you get the offer, right? For inclusion in the agenda, registration number 9110, please vote. [[12:55:12]] For 106 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] For what reason? There is no vote. I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. Carmazin called Chechtov, you have the right to a replica. Yuri Serbin, unfortunately, is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u147	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to address one zealous speaker. Well, you've published the Elections Act, but at least read it when the election campaign starts. You're a lawyer, so read it, or you'll burn yourself tonight, and when the election is over, you'll be dead, and then you'll be a steamer stuck behind a party's tail. That's the first one. And the second. I'm afraid under the rubble of populism we will not finally bury the country. We've passed so many populist laws that we can't all get along right now. Let us, at least until summer, carry out the work of Parliament in a normal constructive environment, take whatever it takes, and then for the last two months, well, God himself commands. But before that, let's forget about the election. The election campaign will begin two months before the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u148	Yes, dear fellows, let's move on to. Just a minute. It was said, "Yura," it was said tenderly, without a name. [[B in m in s a l in]] A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage is being announced for consideration. [[about magnification]] All right, one minute. It was called a last name. Well, then, speak up, please. Yeah, but there's no replica on the line, so please hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u149	I'm not on the phone, I want to answer my comrade in the Suhma Parliament. So, dear friends, if you were to read at least what your committee head writes, and he writes that they have an annual income of 100 or more of the minimum wage. So it's about annual income, not just what you thought. We need to read more carefully. That's the first one. Well, as for our big "fowl" that shows where we're going with our hand. That's a "popular collapse," I mean, you didn't call our President that, since January 1, 2011, he's promised a thousand 200 pensions to all the minimum, the whole state. It's written, and the signature stands. And he promised the niggers, by the way, that he would change everything, and he would pay it all off, and he would pay it off. What's the result? Even the decisions of the courts are not carried out, and those who had to make decisions for themselves are taken by the police and detained on a groundless basis, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u150	Thank you. The second draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage is announced for inclusion in the agenda. [[about magnification]] [[Registration number 9177]] The rapporteur is Andrew Mikhailovich Pavlovski. Who will report from the committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u151	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". As for the discussion, the previous bill was registered in September of this year, and the income is going there in a year, and it was aimed at making it impossible to enforce citizens' property, to throw it off the street, as is now happening in the city of Donetsk, which is what the TV channels are reporting. With regard to Bill 9177, it is submitted in connection with the fact that on Friday we will already consider the budget for second reading, where in fact "frozen" and artificially under-represented social standards, so, with the commission of opposition, we propose to increase the minimum cost of living, the minimum wage, the minimum pension to the level of real consumer price increase. In particular, it is proposed to set a minimum pension of 1,200 dollars and a minimum wage of 1,506 dollars as of 1 January 2012. This is as Victor Janukovic promised in January 2010 on television in Zaporozhye, which will be one of his first decrees. That's why we have to keep our promises. We have to keep our word. Donbass is not chasing! Thus, opposition helps the authorities to remind them of their own. And keep your promises. I understand that the Party of Regions has seriously faced the problem of fulfilling its promises -- the answer to what they have said. It's time to do something for the common people. Because those minimum pensions and the wages you're offering are just bullying. Journalists wanted to live at that minimum of living, lived for only two weeks. We've got a month to live! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u152	From the committee. None. There's no conclusion. The committee did not consider this question. Then sign up, dear colleagues, to discuss the matter. Please state the names of the national MPs. Again, Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u153	Andrew Pavlovsky. Pass it to Oleg Laishka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u154	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u155	Oleg Lazko. I want to support the legislative initiative of my colleague Pavlovski. It's a very topical question. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin gave an interview for days, told them that a gift would be placed under the tree. To whom will you place your gift under the tree, and what gift? If this present is a draft budget to be considered on Friday, it is a gift for the oligarchs, a present for today’s government, but it is not a gift, and it is an atomic bomb for millions of Ukrainian citizens. Because in the following year, thanks to such gifts of authority, people will be poor, people will go bankrupt, you will evict people from their homes, you will deprive them of the last penny to earn money to feed their families. Is that a gift like that? But may the Lord God save us from such gifts of yours. The best gift would be for the Ukrainian people, for Ukraine, a few gifts: the first is the ban on the Party of Regions as a political force that does not keep the pre-election promises that deceives the people who take the last of them; the best gift is the resignation of the government of Azarov, who robs people. They say there is no money in the budget! 450 million for the treatment of officials! One and a half billion to keep President Yanukovic, a billion to the Supreme Council! And they're talking about these gifts! You give people a simple gift: get on a submarine and drown in the Black Sea! And this will be the best gift for a country that can wait. What are you doing instead? You're putting down bills that give people at least a little extra money to the budget because you didn't have the money in your hand, you don't know what it's like to count that coin, whether it's to pay the utility bill or the pills or a piece of bread! That's why we don't need your gifts!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u156	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u157	Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Company faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I want to say on behalf of the faction of the Ukrainian Company that, as always, as a consistent political force that consistently defends the interests of the most disadvantaged, we will certainly support this bill. But here's what I'd like to say. By referring to my earlier work, namely, pension insurance, as a Communist deputy and as the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, I would like to remind you that there is certainly a problem that they are trying to resolve with this bill. Today, the minimum pension is 800 dollars. We have to say that this indicator does not correspond to any civilized standards, nor to the labor contribution of people who have worked hard and hard for this country, to this nation, to this nation. And that is certainly why there is a problem. And any initiatives that concern this issue will certainly be supported. But what I'd like to say is, by turning to those political powers, to the political force that is initiating this bill. Dear colleagues, you had a unique situation: you had a President, you had a Prime Minister, you had a government, you had a majority why you didn't solve that issue when you were in power. That's more than that. In November 2009, here, in this room, when you made up a command team, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, the Party of Regions at that time, the opposition force, breaking your resistance, introduced a living minimum of 498 bracelets, against which you strongly denied. My dear ones, when they had such broad opportunities, obviously they had to be implemented when they did.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u158	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u159	When you had the opportunity to do so, you were obliged to do so. So once again, I'm stressing that the faction of the Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u160	Thank you. Vizevski, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u161	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". I have a document that would advise the members of the Regional Party to read from time to time. This document is called the pre-election program of candidate Yanukovic "Ukraine – for the people!".. For whom people this Ukraine is, too, we understand because I am beginning to read this program, and tears are mixed. "In ten years, Ukraine will enter the world's 20 strongest economies." I think 20 of our billionaires are going to go into one hundred of the richest people in the world -- read between the lines. Next. With regard to social security and state guarantees. "The state must be a reliable guarantor of the decent standard of living of its citizens." We can see how our citizens stand up for their rights before the pension funds in the areas, either in front of the President's Secretariat, or in front of the Kabmin, or here before the Supreme Council, and quite fairly, not in power anymore, but in "The Band Out!"because power and gang are identified things in today's realities in Ukraine. I read the same thing about educational projects. I mean, in education, when the authorities can't feed the citizens, they're taking even what we had before. The fact that Ukrainian language has disappeared from television and radio broadcasters is that, starting with the kindergarten, Ukrainians want to lose even the Ukrainian language, not even talking about the fact that the student and the child need to be fully spent, give the scholarship fully, and the pensioner to be able to live decently from retirement to retirement. I'm looking at the next one. Affordable housing. How much is available in the next budget for affordable housing? A zero. And how much money is there for a bill that we've all been so friendly about because we've decided on the question of hostels and that the state has the right to finance and buy hostels and give to those who live in them? And then there's zero. That is why the dormitories will be taken away from the people and handed over to the incense, even as God forbids, man has stumbled.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u162	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u163	The problem has happened in life, and the older person will come to pick up the apartment, and they will take everything away. So I would like us to vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u164	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. This was about gifts, and I thought to myself, what a nice gift it would be to everyone if professional scammers from a young age and petty thieves with sticky IDs had finally shut up and, you know, just weren't making fun of others hypocritically, cynically, smiling after their speech aids. And on the subject, I would like to say and remind you in 2009, when there was a very similar confrontation between those who offered very much, populist, let's be honest, to raise social standards and those who today offered them, who didn't vote for them. Then the law I proposed was passed because it took into account the real possibilities of the state and, on the other hand, really helped people. If you have any problems, contact me again, he'll pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. And since I have been appealed here, I am forced to say that if we do not love authority so much, no one calls for love, let us at least respect our country. Where am I going? Dear colleagues, in 2009, there was a virtually identical bill with similar proposals for raising living minimum and social standards. At that time, the work of the Supreme Council was blocked, the decision was not taken and there was no dialogue. Thanks to Oleg Zarubinski, they divided the two proposals that were and adopted the law. After that, it was stated by the government that this law would not be enforced. So I propose to everyone that we support one decision in a friendly way so that if we want to finally destroy the country and re-show the test, we can now put this bill into the agenda, take it in the first reading and in general. And a single paragraph of the draft law's author is to appoint a minister of social policy and let him comply with this law, and report to the country. Dear colleagues, I beg you, let's take serious matters seriously. Let's prepare the justification that this sum needs to be put into the budget. As much as we can do what we're doing, we're breaking up a country under the terms of protecting people, you know that. Let's make a decision that we're going to ensure that the social laws that are and then we're going to keep moving. At least it'll be some kind of movement. I know it doesn't like it, but it's true. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please be quiet. I know you're professional demagogues. I know. Dear colleagues, there is a motion to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act (9177) amending the Ukrainian Act on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage. [[B in m in s a l in]] The prime minister too. [[13:12:33]] For-78 The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 36, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 13, communists – 24, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, "The People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, in order to remove the grounds for the screams of shame, I ask your permission to publish in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, as voted in favour of the Social Standards Act in 2009 and now. And then it'll be a disgrace to all of us. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down. I'm asking you to publish. And everything will be in place. A draft law supplementing article 42 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on political risk-related activities]] [[Registration number 9261]] The reporter is Hennady Hennadiovich Moskal. The correspondent is Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz, head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u167	Dear National Deputies! Dearly beloved! Someone here said he was not hearing well, so I'll talk more loudly. I'm asking you to support and not leave the country to such an extent that all the leaders from Moscow today have come and all the factors of the European Union have left Ukraine without signing anything. Question one, we need to gain political courage today, I'm addressing most of them as they said in the Soviet Union, "morally debilitating" and complementing article 42 of the Criminal Code with this content: "It is not a crime either of the actions, actions, or omissions of a person whose office is legally assigned to political positions, if this action is related to the exercise of official powers and has been committed in conditions of justified risk." Such standards are common in all European and world civilizations, and political decisions are taken. only political responsibility. And let the electorate say, "Was Timoshenko right?" And the second. Most, the honourable Party of Regions, you will be unable to further call your leaders to account for making absolutely absurd political decisions today. So I'm asking you not to put the country and the people who want to go to Europe and because of you can't go there or get there, I'm asking you to back up today, it's going to be the first step. And the fact that your lawyers wrote that they don't understand what political positions are, well, that's absurd. There is the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which clearly states that all members of the government are headed by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u168	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u169	Please support me, and you know that your principles today are bound by stupidity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u170	Thank you. By the way, Hennaday Hennadiovich, it is written here by the lawyers who are in charge of political office. I mean, it's all written here. Dear colleagues, from the committee? None. Please sign up for the discussion. Olga Bodnar, "BUT" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u171	Thank you very much. Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland. My fellow Members, I am very much asking with common sense to refer to this bill and vote it unanimously. Because I really don’t remember such things in the world so that they could be rid of them, so brutally that they could get rid of their political opponents. I think that no man who will take the place of present Prime Minister Azarov, or current Prime Minister Azarov, can be assured of such a similar action in relation to them. What's more, as we see today, is that we're already going to have 500 dollars of gas. I want to remind you that today there is a total political repression against the Prime Minister of the Ukraine of Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, and my colleagues have already told you that if this rule is not repealed, we are simply responsible to God for this man. We were judges yesterday, and we saw the disgraceful conduct of the judge, who unfortunately had not been responded by the prosecutors in any way. I don't think you can definitely do that. Because yesterday, see, representatives of the judiciary about the state of health of a person who is a member of confidential information, the dissemination and use of which is directly prohibited by article 32, are also covered by article 145 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. If maybe someone has forgotten or considered it inappropriate, then I want to say that by adopting this bill, we are already removing indulgence and giving indulgence to those people who are now under the press and forced to, perhaps not even wanting to perform these functions and the roles that the current authorities are throwing at them. I ask you to support this bill. It's going to be like lactus paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u172	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u173	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I will try to use the same language and terminology used by previous speakers. But, first, you know, there's been a violation of what was happening both with the European Union, there, and in Russia, nothing is signed and so on. I want to tell you, they sign contracts very quickly when national interests give up. It's not that simple. He signed a pen with one piece of paper, gave up his national interests, and, as the speaker said, he got $500 for gas. It's called quick signatures, very fast. And she said the price of this quick signature is $500, you'll think about it. Who signed it? With one piece of feathers, they quickly raised their hands and gave up. And when it's not fast, when national interests are protected, when each letter is acknowledged, every figure, when each one is sung, in this sense of real state diplomacy, is to protect national interests rather than give them up for $500 a gas. That's the first one. Well, that's two. I have been, as it has been said, a Soviet terminology, and I answer that a morally depraved, part of a morally depraved opposition, that we will not vote in favour of your morally depraved proposals, because they do not respond to the country's true national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u174	Maybe there's nothing at all. Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u175	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think those stupid people were who adopted the Criminal Code? Am I the chairman of the committee that worked on him for three years? You think that we have not recorded in article 42 what is involved in the risk of crime, action, or inaction that has caused harm to law enforcement. interests if this action has been carried out in conditions of justified risk to achieve a significant socially beneficial goal. That is the case with the current article 42 of the Criminal Code. But who reads it? Mr. Kuzemin? He doesn't read. Mr. Kiriev just doesn't understand what it is. You know, the level of debilitating human beings is going to go awry! That's why he doesn't understand. Mrs. Saitilo, I looked into this judge's eyes yesterday. You know, emptiness, emptiness and absence in the state at all, because you have to emigrate after what she said yesterday! After that acknowledgment! Not even a presence! I am not talking about understanding article 42. Hennadiy Hennadiyovich wants to add that it is not a crime, either, for the act of a person who is legally assigned to political office if the act is linked to the exercise of official authority and has been carried out in conditions of justified risk. Gennady Gennadyovich, well, call it oil even more. I'll vote for him. Although, I say again, the first part allows it. But, Gennady Hennadyovich, you obviously wanted to talk about something else. You wanted to say that 31 numbers of that famous year have called off the Naftogazu delegation under Oleg Dubina's leadership and are ready for a $225 gas deal. And for some reason, no one's sitting under the table! Aah! The D.A., where are you? Security, why aren't you wearing handcuffs on everyone? Why did not Mr. Firthash count and all those who made that decision? Why their assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u176	Yuri Anatolyevich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u177	I'm done. Dear friends! You can and should accept this article. But we need to decriminalize 365, and we need to make a political decision that the opposition shouldn't be in prison. The opposition must express its point of view. And when Mr. Chechetov was in charge of the balls.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u178	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues! I put to the vote, please note, the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on the completion of article 42 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on political risk-related activities. [[Registration number 9261]] About getting into the daytime. [[13:23:57]] For-58 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 37, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 18, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 0, non-fractional – 3. Honourable National Deputies are being submitted for consideration for the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the expertise of teaching programmes, textbooks for the general secondary education system]] [[Registration number 9086]] The reporter is Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk. From the committee head of the Committee on Science and Education, Maxim Georgievicz Lutsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill isn't the first time. I don't think it's a secret that the new authorities are looking at. He also examines the history, watches the present, and sees the books in the Ukrainian language. Viewed, viewed, and reviewed for a few percent of the rating. We demand that the textbooks, which are defined by the State Standard for Secondary Education, be conducted by the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Education and only then given to secondary school. And we're against history. We are against viewing what Ukraine and Ukraine are. But today at a press conference, President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine announced several views. First. President Janukovic believes that an external policy course should be reviewed. And he said that he did not exclude Ukraine from joining the Jewish Empire. There's no secret about what the negotiations were between Ukraine and Russia on gas: first Russia requires 50 percent of the pipe; second Russia requires its management on the Ukrainian pipe; third Russia says it's going to be 250 dollars; fourth Russia wants the keys from Ukraine to be transferred to the Kremlin. And if President Janukovic thinks that he will succeed in surrendering Ukraine, the Ukrainian people will not give it in the first place. The second is about looking at personnel policy. Unfortunately, President Janukovic did not take a courageous step today and did not say that he had made the biggest human error in two years. The entire Ukrainian government today should be retired. This should be the sum total of the last two years of the incumbent president's tenure. But the weakness that has been shown, the fact that we have not said that we have caused much trouble for Ukraine, we will be rectified. And the third. We call on today’s authorities to realize that they will not be able to keep it on the bayonets, on the militia, on the law enforcement system, or on the opposition in prison. They can only hold if they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u180	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u181	They can only maintain it if they review their attitude toward Ukraine and the Ukrainians and start working for the country, not for themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u182	Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that article 19 of the Basic Law on Education of Ukraine provides for scientific and methodical education: the Ministry of Education, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the National Academy of Teaching Sciences, the Ministry of Ministry of Education and Information, the Ministry of Autonomy, higher education institutions, academics, branches, scientific research institutes, postgraduate education institutions and other methodological institutions, creative associations, associations and social organizations. To implement this article of the relevant law, the Ministry of Education, Science, Youth and Sports approved an order that clearly and clearly states that the position on scientific expertise in textbooks is carried out by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences of Ukraine. The National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences of Ukraine have developed the procedure for scientific and psychological and pedagogical expertise, the development of evaluation criteria and the methodology for the presentation of ratings. Thus, the availability of positive expertise from the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences is mandatory. In view of the settlement of the matter, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please note that it has unanimously decided to reject the draft bill so that, with the same name and content, the bill in February of this year has already been considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and has been rejected. Therefore, in view of these issues being settled, I ask you not to include the matter in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this. Andrey Pavlovski, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u185	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u186	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, in fact, there are at least two problems with today's Ukrainian textbooks that are being handled by the current administration of the Ministry of Education in charge of Tobacco. The first problem is ideological or meaningful; it is related to the fact that during the last period, party or political sentiments of the Ministry of Education are either directly or indirectly transferred to the content of textbooks, which is unacceptable, wrongly and destroys the very ideology of the education system, which should not be dependent on what parties are represented by some or other ministries. So I'm convinced that if there's an order from the Ministry, it's a good thing. Well, it's desirable that it's in the law, so that only scientists at the Academy of Sciences in the meaningful part, and the Academy of Pednaks in part methodical have a direct and direct attitude to the meaningful part of the textbooks. The second problem is economic, pragmatic, I would say, corruption in textbooks. I have repeatedly addressed the Attorney General, the Court of Auditors. Last year you read the conclusions of the Attorney General's Office, where the Ministry completely failed to provide textbooks. I hope the Court of Auditors will give me an answer, and experts and experts say that today, on average, the cost of a textbook is twice as high as the actual cost of a textbook. That there's some sort of middle-class structure that's never done this before, and they're printing these textbooks quietly, making half of it on this whole story. So under the guise that the ministry is fighting for the purity of its contents, it's actually fighting for money, because these textbooks make fantastic sums. I hope to inform you about the House of Auditors, and we will learn this information, and I think today we need to make questions about textbooks, really, a question that is affected by Parliament's spending control, and in the content control part by the Academy of Sciences, Experts and the Academy of Peds.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u188	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u189	Dear colleagues! The situation that we have today with a review of Ukrainian history, Ukrainian books, and Ukrainian science is primarily a school story very much like that of Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk. The German says we're Mongols? Mongols, Mongols. That's all they're going to say now on the other side, and we're going to leave, we're going to agree. Does France Review Its History? After all, the battle of Waterloo is a defeat. Of course not. Or do the Germans want to remove the disgraceful pages of 20th - century history, and these are disgraceful pages for the people? No, they sound like a chorus. When does a similar thing happen in Ukraine? It was when a "professor" who had never read the history of Ukraine or read with great hatred suddenly came to power because Ukraine's independence was seen as a huge tragedy. And that's when there's an attempt to bring up the whole story, including Ukrainian, and the world under its crotch, a short-sighted Ukrainian worldview. In view of this, Arsenius Yatsenuk’s offer is very clear. Let's make the professor go away, and the real Ukrainian classical scientists are going to give such a historical perspective and a retrospective that will not be ashamed of the world, and that our children who love this country will really study, because they are born, live and live in it. So what should the opposition do? Yes, it will endlessly submit logical, correct legislative initiatives in favor of just and true historical science, against the ignorant. I urge you to support this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u190	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u191	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Well, you know, I just heard two people speak: both Mr. Mikola and Mrs. Lily. I can sign practically every word they say. Yes, these problems exist, and in the form that this is represented. I have a question: does this legislative initiative change anything? That legislative provision, which is today, does not deprive us of the right and even the obligation of the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences to fully investigate everything. Their ability and even their responsibility to participate in the development and monitoring of textbooks is ensured. It's not settled, maybe just the issue of the griffin itself. Well, I'm not sure that's gonna change anything. Plus, let's say that the situation at the industry academy, frankly, isn't always so positive. In his day, you will recall how Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko tried to create new academies and so forth. And what's the point of that? We're facing a huge gap right at the level of sectoral academics between the level and responsibility of individual scientists and the administrative apparatus that this bill would eventually lay down. So I think this bill doesn't change anything, it doesn't make any sense, and I honestly don't see the meaning of it. And that was the position of our MP group. But I now have a question, perhaps not even to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not to the Conciliation Council, but to the opposition. Wednesday is the day of opposition. A day’s order is formed according to their suggestions. In today's agenda, after the huge number of drafts that will no longer be considered at this session, we understand this very well -- never, there are adequate and necessary bills that are postponed at the end, which apply to the same education. on the moratorium on the closure of educational institutions in the Ukrainian language of education, on higher education of Soka, on education on public guarantees for teachers, and on the celebration of the memory of Simyrenko and Grigor Tobacco.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u192	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u193	So wouldn't it be better for our representatives, particularly the opposition, to insist that we today be less simple to the beauty and the pianist to include in the order of the day what can no longer be considered, but to consider these bills, which unfortunately will not be achieved today. This? I think these bills might make you a little less cocky, and the benefits would be more, they could pass. We decided to vote factions for those bills. And unfortunately, there are beautiful words, great words, great power, and nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u194	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u195	Honestly, I didn't want to speak. But when I listened to the drafter, I listened carefully, and there was only a name, and then it went: and the president remembered, and Timoshenko, and everything he wanted to talk about. And lately, I see that this author is making laws that are different -- from village to education, from something else to something else. Clearly, a person has been able to stay in life, and the minister of the economy, where he has done nothing, has left no trace, and the minister of foreign affairs, where there is no result, and in the President's Administration. By the way, we had to look over there when they wrote in the book on the history of the orange revolution, which is the main thing, and we have to look at what's done. And he didn't do anything to the Chief of the Supreme Council. Well, it's kind of like a person already knows everything and the Universal, and he's got another job, the President, and he's going to see her. In order to claim this position, he criticizes everyone. What did the first President Kravchuk say? That dog's box in his life, he didn't build it himself. So, really, when you listen to this person, it's a pure pianist. Nothing was said about textbooks, about what to do with them, and he did not know this system because he had not yet worked in higher education. So the more we listen to this person, the more we will understand that this person is in power, the more he needs the rostrum every time to demonstrate, the smarter I am, the smarter listen to me. There's nothing to talk about, and we're not voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u196	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u197	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, we've been talking for 15 minutes, almost 20 minutes about everything, but we haven't talked about the content of the bill. Actually, there's nothing to talk about. You know, we can look at legislation differently and we can talk about Parliament. In some countries, which are the highlights of democracy, you can read the New York phone book for six hours and everything. I don't think we should go that way. This is very much about a particular matter, about the expertise that needs to be done. It was said that representatives of the committee were told that the committee had unanimously stated that the standard was regulated, that the National Academy of Sciences was also being carried out, and that the National Academy of Education was being implemented. There's nothing to talk about, because it reminds you, you know, a desire like in an anecdote after certain events to say, "Let's talk?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion on this issue of proposals, and more specifically of Taras Blackwall's comments on the need to consider those bills that are included in the agenda. I fully support this idea. At the same time, there is the insistence to first consider the section "inclusion into the agenda." So to avoid creating a conflict here, I actually agree with the proposal of two factions that actually form the order of the day on Wednesday. As to the substance of the bill itself. There is a problem, dear colleagues. The first problem is the quality of textbooks, because they are written by living people and they are also reviewed by living people, especially the sensitive issues that relate to the humanitarian sphere, but the conclusions are signed after the decision of the relevant scientist on behalf of a given institution. The problem is that politicians do not always agree with the findings of experts, or scientists. And there is this problem. And the second problem that Mikola Tomenko was talking about is providing textbooks. And there's an appropriate analysis of the account room. I think this should be the subject of our committee's consideration. Dear colleagues, there is a motion to include in the agenda a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the expertise of teaching programmes, textbooks for the general secondary education system]] [[Registration number 9086]] [[13:40:47]] For-51 The decision is not taken. A draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on subjects of the law of the legislative initiative concerning the denunciation of Ukraine's international treaties]] [[Registration number 9281]] I mean, for inclusion in the agenda of this project. The reporter is Oleg Grigorovich Belarus. Do you have Oleg Grigorovich? Please. So you're out of town? Please. Then from the committee, who will be speaking? Vladimir MacKayenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u199	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! A large number of parliamentary bills are brought before the Supreme Council, usually concerning the denunciation of Ukraine’s international treaties, which are the authors of either individual MPs or entire groups of national deputies. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has studied these bills carefully and considers it necessary to submit to the Supreme Council a bill amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (with regard to subjects of the law of the legislative initiative concerning the denunciation of Ukraine’s international treaties (registration No. 9281). The committee at its meeting on September 21st addressed the issues of the initiative of the national MPs and other drafters of the bill. The discussion noted that the provisions of article 202 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules do not harmonize and directly contradict the current Constitution of Ukraine, the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Treaties and the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, and the procedure for submitting bills to the Supreme Council concerning the denunciation of international agreements of Ukraine. According to articles 54, 56 of the Vienna Convention and article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, denunciation is a refusal of the State to contract with timely or early warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u200	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u201	In other words, the denunciation of an international treaty can take place only in cases where the clause on the possibility of termination is contained in the contract itself or with the agreement of all parties. According to article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the proposal for the denunciation of international agreements, and this is required by the Constitution, is made through either the President's Institute or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, only the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of the State can act as legislators on these issues. Based on the above and in view of the need to organize the Rules, the team of authors of the bill proposes to enact such an appropriate law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u202	Thank you, too. Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council, Vladimir MacKeenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u203	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on 12 October 2011, the Committee reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in foreign matters by Mr. Oleg Grigorovich and others, at number 9281. The bill proposes to amend part one of article 202 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely the deletion of the words "national MPs". That is, that bills on the denunciation of Ukraine's international treaty should be brought before the Supreme Council of Ukraine only by the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which corresponds to the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on International Treaties of Ukraine. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a whole. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u204	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, please write down if there is a need to express your thoughts on this legislative initiative. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u205	Thank you, Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Highly esteemed colleagues, the Party of Regions always supports constructive proposals. The bill stipulates that bills on the denunciation of Ukraine's international treaties are being submitted to the Supreme Council by the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and this is absolutely justified. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 32, of the Constitution of Ukraine, a denunciation of Ukraine’s international treaties is one of the powers vested in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But this means that the Supreme Council of Ukraine only makes denunciation decisions. With regard to the introduction of legislative proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the denunciation of international agreements, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, these powers form part of the competence of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in accordance with articles 106 and 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, article 202 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides for the right of three entities to legislate, including the Ukrainian national deputies, to legislate on the denunciation of Ukraine’s international treaties. As a result, the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts and the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules set out a variety of subjects of the law of the legislative initiative on the denunciation of Ukraine's international agreements. Therefore, it was necessary to bring the rules of the Rules into line with the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine. A party of regions will support and ask you also to vote in favour in order to lift this coalition and remove the unnecessary politicization of these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u206	Andrey Pavlovsky Faction "BJUB - "The Fatherland." Viacheslav Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u207	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Please give the floor to Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u208	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u209	Yuri Carmazin. I thank Andrew Pavlovsky very much. And I will share with him the thought that we discussed that, unfortunately, Oleg Grigorovitch, whom we highly respect, did not fully understand article 32, more faithfully, in article 85, paragraph 32, of the Constitution. I quote, "This is the mandate of the Supreme Council to grant, in statutory terms, consent to the obligations of international treaties and the denunciation of Ukraine's international treaties." Now, with regard to the subject, the subject of the legislative initiative is a national MP. You don't change the Status Act, you don't change the Constitution. Thus, the amendment of article 202 of the Rules is the deprivation of the right of members of the people to implement the Constitution, first. Secondly, nowhere in the Constitution does it say that this right is only for the President or the Cabmine. You're just saying that it comes out as if that's how you need to understand the Constitution. No, it's not. Think about it. That's the first one. And the second. What is the reason why all these questions are being asked today, and they have already been asked on more than one occasion? Because we can't make any kind of deal denunciation that leads to the capital out of Ukraine, especially the end of the Cyprus hole in the Ukrainian budget, the Austrian hole, the different Swiss cantons, and so on. And the MPs are asking the right questions. Today, this project is being used to shut these deputies' mouths. As a result, I firmly oppose the adoption of this bill not only in general but also in the first reading. Moreover, I believe that you know that it is impossible to demean the role of Parliament more than it is now demeaning. Don't do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u210	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko refers the right to speak to Ruslan Knazević, the faction of "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u211	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor. It has been said that this type of action is in harmony with the spirit of the Constitution, since some feel that such a situation is contrary to the standards of the Constitution of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the Constitutional Court on the Supreme Council Rules has no stone left on the stone, he has declared it unconstitutional four times until we passed a special law, and every rule has been checked several times under a microscope for constitutionality. Where it's unconstitutional, long ago these norms no longer work. With regard to this situation, to say that this clearly comes out of the Constitution, in a mild sense, does not correspond to reality. Indeed, the Constitution states in 151 articles that the President and Kabmin have the right to apply to the Constitutional Court for the conformity of international agreements. What is the denunciation, which in accordance with the Constitution belongs solely to parliamentary powers? It's like the Constitution to use, well, it's already, you know, we're out of our minds. Given these circumstances, I don't think anyone has the right to take the legislative initiative to take away any of the national MPs who are in this room. Oleg Grigorovich, I am addressing you as a highly respected person, please call off this bill. Someone has set you up, and believe me, it casts a shadow on the whole opposition. I categorically deny this bill on behalf of our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, the word is Taras Cranville, please. Then Oleg Belarus will have the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u213	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian national MPs, you know, is very annoying when there is a lot of lies going on under some of the interests of the pre-elections of the future. Unconstitutional, unfortunately, the rule that was included in the last edition was clearly incorrect in the Supreme Council Rules. It rivals all that can be done, including the Vienna Convention. Clearly, then, it had to be removed. It needs to be removed politically for one only reason, we are distracted by the release of the entire pair into whistles. There are other forms that can be effective. Because it is clear that the denunciation initiated by the deputy of the Supreme Council will not have a future, it simply will not have a legal one. And that's why there are things like the Supreme Council's appeal to the President, the Cabinet's request for a denunciation, there's statements by the Supreme Council that need to be accepted, and that need to be dropped, plus there are other forms of denunciation that we've forgotten about in the first place. Disobedience of laws, such as the execution of them by another contractual party, and so forth. So on behalf of our faction, as co-author of the bill, I ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u214	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u215	Please support this bill. Because it really takes away the naked pianist factor where you can include a good analysis factor and serious really legal, adequate documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u216	Thank you. Oleg Belarus, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u217	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! In principle, I find it difficult to let down. Especially when it comes to the national interests of Ukraine, which I have protected for the rest of my life and will protect for the rest of my life. There is the Vienna Convention, there is a law on international agreements between Ukraine. And there is a Constitution, an active Constitution of Ukraine, which it is. And there are national MPs who have so much energy that in one week they can write ten denunciation laws. And if that had happened, they would have destroyed the entire legal framework of international relations, Ukraine's cooperation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered about one and a half of these initiatives. No one is depriving the people of their right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u218	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u219	. Say you have to give order to the Rules! Because today it is contrary to the Constitution, the Law on International Contracts, and the Vienna Convention. He can't afford it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u220	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's finish the question. Obviously, the very setting of this position has its own logic. If we are to be ratified by the President or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, they must obviously be responsible for the drafting and the question and the denunciation of the relevant agreements. But, but we may have a conflict here. Since the MP will be required to register the relevant bill, he is the subject of the legislative initiative. Obviously, this very idea had to be completed and recorded in all the other documents, not just the Supreme Council Rules, which aside from this issue, then we would have solved any problem. But I feel now that if only we make decisions, there will be a collision of Aparatate employees with the National Deputies. And regarding the Rules, respectable colleagues. We do not need to run the Rules under novels, but we must do them for all of us. Then we won't have any problems. So, given the discussion, I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the draft law. [[Registration number 9281]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:56:52]] For 248 Questions are included in the agenda. I'd like the committee to prepare him for consideration. The factions, please. And we continue our work for 15 minutes. Region Party – 188, "BUT – Fatherland" – 2, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Parria – 0, non-factional – 11. A draft regulation on the increase in living minimum and minimum wage in 2011 is announced for consideration to include the draft regulation in the agenda. [[Registration number 9076]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u221	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Well, unfortunately, of course, on the day of opposition, if decisions go through, it's a decision that is essentially initiated by a majority. So something must be done with such a day of opposition. So that, on the one hand, the buffers would not be on the rostrum on both sides. On the other hand, in order for really serious opposition decisions to be considered and taken into account by the majority, then it's democracy. Unfortunately, there's no such thing yet. Why? Because there is no democracy in the country. As far as I'm concerned. It was introduced in August. It's partially out of date because it has old numbers in it, but I'm relying on new ones. What's the matter? Now, at least 800 bracelets for the disabled. Clearly, neither in Ternopolis nor in the White Church nor in Kiev will he live for that kind of money. Not all trade unions, but some say, "4.5 thousand dollars is actually a living minimum." Minpraci, what's he saying? The actual cost of living for the workers is a thousand 129, but they pay 985, not pay, but set. [[taking last data in October]] So minus 15 percent of the state doesn't pay. For the disabled 16 percent, the state does not pay, at an average rate of 13 percent. That is, the actual level even set by the State Ministry of Labour under the Income Minimum Act is lower than that on which social benefits and pensions are made. In view of what I propose as a national deputy to review immediately the size of the subsistence minimum, taking into account the data on subsistence minimum monitoring in January-January this year, which was carried out in accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act, and to provide the government with revised figures within two weeks. But the budget year is over. At the same time, this problem is absolutely relevant to the 2012 budget, with a minimum of living for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u222	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u223	and in the 2012 budget, the minimum of living for all categories is too low. So I suggest you take a constructive look at this proposal not only to members of the opposition, but also to members of the majority, still sit here all day, and you can press the button once. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u224	Thank you. Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, it is unfortunate that we in Parliament have made a living minimum a walking girl. Anyone who is not lazy uses it only for political reasons and no longer. Let me give you an example. The authors and those who hoped to raise social standards had recently been in power, and today this was mentioned when the Party of the Regions blocked the rostrum and insisted that social norms be adopted in accordance with the law. And Vladimir Mikhailovich said right today, that's how we passed this law. But former Prime Minister Julia Vladimirovna said that we won't carry it out, and, little by little, that it's an atomic bomb under??? 2010 budget. What happened next? Following the election of the President, these norms were put into effect immediately. And now, in fact, the law. Dear colleagues, in general, I would recommend both to the authors and to all of us to rely more on the basic law. There is a special law on subsistence minimum. There's a method, science and society. There are many other things that need to be observed. This law is contrary to both the Supreme Council's Rules and the Housing Minimum Act. Well, not enough that the author himself said that the year is ending, he's not getting any better by 2011. Second, it is contrary to the Housing Minimum Act. Therefore, our committee did not support the bill. And I don't think he can be put on the agenda to spend time on it, and he won't be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u226	Yeah, we're signing up for the show. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u227	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine! I don't agree with the fact that this law that I have introduced, the draft decree contradicts the Housing Minimum Act, because article 5 of this law clearly states that the State itself monitors the subsistence minimum and calculates monthly the actual amount of subsistence minimum per person, officially reports on the website, officially sends to the President, the Supreme Council, the social dialogue parties, i.e. employers and trade unions. For what it's done to make the state acknowledge that what it pays people is simply not enough for them to survive, these ordinary Ukrainian people, and that's a signal that the livelihood minimum needs to be raised. At the same time, to respond to these signals, the government, the President, they refuse and continue to store on one level fabulous treasures with gold toilets in some houses including. I'm sorry to mention that in the Supreme Council. And on the other pole, people are poor when they can't live on these 800 dollars of pension anywhere. I'm not talking about the capital of Ukraine and other expensive places. You can't live for 800 bucks both in the White Church and in the Chernivites and in Jenakiev. How does the State react? It raises a few percent from January 1st to January 1st to the minimum of living, that is, it spits on the problem, and it takes away the needs of the common people. In view of the fact that the executive authority will never increase these payments, the legislative authority – Parliament – must do so for it. And if most of them refuse to do so, they should talk about it directly instead of referring to any disagreements with the Rules or a breach of procedure. So I think that an honest and fair vote would now be to give people an increase in pensions and salaries by the end of this year by this vote and to increase pensions and salaries and starting in 2012. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u228	Karskov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u229	Please give the floor to the fighter for the present budget of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Alle Alexandrovsky, faction of the Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u230	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, perhaps? Dear colleagues! It is a matter of increasing the subsistence minimum and minimum wage. However, neither speaker nor speaker said how and how this could be done. We know with you what must be a condition for this: First. Growth of an economy that is completely inadequate and practically lacking today. The second is a fair distribution of national wealth. We don't have that either. What, therefore, and how can subsistence minimum and minimum wage increase? Neither did Timoshenko and President Yushchenko, unfortunately, take adequate measures today. How do we see a way out? The way out is very simple. We need Stalin. Indeed, Stalin Josif Vissarionovitch, whose birthday is celebrated by all healthy people today, people who carefully evaluate history and correctly appreciate what Stalin has done for the Soviet people. I remind you, there's a 4-fold increase in industrial production. This is from 1913 to 1950. This is in the light of the wars that our people have experienced. With him, the gold stock was increased six and a half times. This is from 1,000 50 tons in 1913 and 2,000 50 tons in 1953. It's been lower every year, it's lived for 74 years, and it's been reduced to 60 in men in fact. This was done in 1947 in the Soviet Union, in the first country after the war, and in other countries of Europe they continued to work. So today, unfortunately, the line that has been being implemented here for 20 years continues. Yesterday, in Kharkiv, housing and utility tariffs were raised almost twice in some homes. At the same time, the average pension for Harkov has increased by 40, 43, 47 per cent since 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u231	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u232	I'm telling you again, Stalin had a bad time with thieves, bandits, bourgeois, bureaucrats. That's right! And in Ukraine, we need a power where thieves, bandits, bourgeoises, bureaucrats will live badly!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u233	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u234	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Here are many of the laws that we have considered today, and I would like to note very positively the law of Oleg Belorus, which we have supported. It is indeed an important law for the Power. And the law of Veacheslava Kirilenko. I can say immediately that we will vote against it, but it has been a pleasure to listen to a professional statement without any policy. He was defending his point of view, trying to prove it was right. And we agree with him, which is really what we need to do. If it wasn't for one "but," which Olga Bodnar gave us, if it wasn't for the $500 gas that the previous power had left to us. There would then be an additional budget resource. And what Vejacheslav Kirilenko proposed, we would vote with two hands today. Unfortunately, though, $500 a gas, as Olga Bodnar, who left the last power to us, said, does not allow this law to be passed today. But tomorrow, I mean figuratively, next year we'll take it because we'll find a solution that compromises with Russia. We will change the gas contract, which will be balanced in both Russian interests and Ukrainian, which will result in a reduction in the price of gas, an additional budget resource will be received. And we may even increase to a greater extent the parameters referred to by the author of the bill and thus significantly improve the social security of the people. This will be a guarantee of protection against the second wave of crisis, the epicentre of which is European countries, since Fukushima Financial is in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u235	Please, Yuri Gnatkevitch, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, two brief lines of discussion. Someone, the opposition, especially Yatsenuk, accused us that our bills were essentially the beginning of an electoral campaign. Well, then. And when you explain to me that I came from the districts, and all my assistants tell me that from the Party of Regions, the administration, all the village heads have been instructed to give a list of the village: who needs wood, who needs sugar, who needs how many children, and what they need to buy. This isn't the start of a campaign? And the second. We were rebuked by the Head of the Supreme Council that two years ago Julia Volodymyrna said she would not comply with this law. So let me remind you what the posters were: "Let's force the government of Yulia Timoshenko to raise social standards!" Yeah, that's what you were saying, hanging balloons, hanging something else. And Papiev made a special report, money, he said, is. But there is a big difference. Ukraine was then involved in the world economic crisis. And Julia Volodymyrna saved pensions, which at the time were at this level, she saved.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u237	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u238	It belongs to Pinchuku, and it's because our people work there. She was saving banks because people had deposits there. That's why there's a big difference. And now your government is going to report on big industrial gains. Then do your motto: hang up. Let's make Azarov raise his social standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-21-m0.u239	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft decision on the increase in living minimum and minimum wage in 2011. [[Registration number 9076]] [[14:11:14]] For-59 The decision is not supported. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. At 15 o'clock we have work on committees, factions. We're starting work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. To the committees, to the heads of the committees, to do everything we can to get all the bills put forward for tomorrow's second reading to be considered. And I remind you, if the committees don't prepare a comparative table, but the deadlines set by the Rules have passed, we will decide on the results of the first reading. Good-bye.
