ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:33]] 386 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear National Deputies, let us move on to, more precisely, the consideration of issues set out in the schedule for the fourth time. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the identification of the State Environmental Investment Agency as the main cost manager]] There is a suggestion to deal with this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[16:02:28]] For 172 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Finance Shevchenko Yuri Ivanovic, co-rapporteur, Deputy Head of the Committee, National Deputy Melnik. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Ukrainian National Deputies, dearly present! I propose for your consideration a draft Ukrainian Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. The bill proposes to amend Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 in part of the definition of the State Environmental Investment Agency as the main cost manager and the responsible contractor for three budget programmes totalling 185.9 million dollars. By decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, dated 17.04 B.C.E. 2008 No.392 The Nesekolinvest Agency is designated by the body mandated to conduct international activities under the Kyoto Protocol to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. The government’s decision has established that the Nacekolinvest Agency will contract the sale of parts of the installed amount of greenhouse gas emissions on the basis of decisions made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Under the commission of the government of the Nacekolinvest Agency, in 2009, agreements were made with the authorized authorities of Japan and Spain to sell 47 million parts of the set amount of greenhouse gas emissions. As of 1 January 2011, the balance of unused parts derived from the sale of parts, set by the State Department, amounted to more than 4.8 billion dollars. At the same time, it should be noted that in 2010, as the chief budget manager, the Nacecolinvest Agency began its work on the implementation of the above-mentioned funds, such as that of Prime Minister Azarov. The plan of action for thermosanation projects in budgetary institutions has been approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u3	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u4	Thank you. In Ukraine’s State Budget 2011, the State Environmental Investment Agency is defined as a responsible contractor. The proposed changes to the 2011 state budget are balanced. Please support and accept the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u5	Thank you. The Deputy Head of the Budget Committee is Peter Melnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Budget Committee at its meeting on 20 April considered a bill amending Appendix 3 to the 2011 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, number 8273. The bill proposes to designate the State Environmental Investment Agency as the main budget manager of the State Budget for budgetary programmes in the same extent as the Agency is now the responsible contractor. The bill is balanced. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council supports the legislative proposal put forward. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill No. 8273 following its first reading to adopt as a basis and as a whole a law clarifying the drafting of section III of the draft law, namely: this law takes effect from the day following its publication and the introduction of editorial rights to the appendix to the bill. Accordingly, the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should provide the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications to the text and the addition to Bill No. 8273 when it is adopted upon signature by the Head of the Supreme Council. Please support the committee's decision to take into account the sound. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u7	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, have you got the offer? Shall we vote? Taking into account the refinement that the reporter just mentioned, he's the deputy head of the budget committee. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee on acceptance as a basis and in the whole of the draft Law, registration number 8273, taking into account the clarifications made by the deputy head of the committee. Please vote. [[16:07:59]] For the 250. The decision has been taken, or the law has been passed. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending the Tax Code of Ukraine on UEFA Taxation is under review. [[Registration number 8332]] The suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[16:08:37]] For 203 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Finance Minister Shevchenko Yuri Ivanovich. The committee's gonna report to Vitaly Hometic, right? Yes, the rapporteur from the committee, please pass it here. Yes, please, reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u8	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The project is planned for a period of preparation and conduct in Ukraine to exempt VAT from the UEFA ticket and service operation, which is an integral part of the ticket. To establish that during the time of the championship, UEFA’s profits will not be taxed as a result of activities in Ukraine, including commercial rights. The adoption of the draft law will ensure Ukraine's implementation of Guarantee 11, exemption from taxation and tax support provided by Ukraine in preparation for participation in the UEFA tender for Ukraine's final part of the 2012 European Championship, which will help boost Ukraine's international image. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u9	Thank you. All of it. Have a seat. Alexander Pecklesenko, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u10	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill has also been considered on the Committee and adopted unanimously, so we ask that the bill be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Nobody insists? Then, dear fellows, there is such an offer that we will accept it definitively, and here we continue to drag away the impossible so that there will be no complaints that Parliament does not allow us to prepare for Euro-2012. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and in the whole of the draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine on UEFA Taxation. [[Registration number 8332]] Please vote. [[16:11:12]] For 266 Decision taken. Thank you. I would like to announce to you the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the financing of the road economy]] The reporter and co-reporter are Melnik Peter. Dear colleagues! The author and the committee are asked to consider the matter under reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[16:11:52]] For 221 Decision taken. Please, Peter Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Today, colleagues received a textbook on the Ukrainian Tax System. It was developed by a team of the National University of the Tax Service of Ukraine, together with the Ministry of Finance, within the framework of the 90th year of the Institute, edited by Prime Minister Mikoli Janović Azarov. Chief Finance Minister Jaroshenko Fedir Aleksiyovich, I am his deputy. I think it will be useful, this book, this book for us, and for Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u13	Thank you. It'll be a table book with us, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u14	That's the first one. The Budget Committee at its meeting on 20 April considered a bill amending the 2011 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, number 8399. The bill proposes to allow the following for implementation of the State budget. First. The Ministry of Finance will make adjustments to the state budget enrollment rates, taking into account the actual arrival of loans, the state's borrowing from international financial institutions for investment projects. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers will provide funds to the State Road Service to cover temporary cash breaks at the expense of a single treasury account on the condition of their return. Such changes will enable the construction and repair of the roadways of general use to a much larger extent and ensure the efficient use of budgetary resources, as well as the maximum cost of international organisations in line with the needs of the road economy. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion to the bill, points out that it is appropriate to draw the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers on the introduction of a legislative proposal. The bill is supported by the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, the committee proposes, with a view to aligning the bill with budgetary terminology, to specify and make editorial and technical legal clarifications to the proposed changes. The Committee decided to recommend Bill 8399 to the Supreme Council as a result of the first reading review to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the proposals made in the Committee's report on the budget for the bill. Therefore, for the transcript, I note that the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. Appropriate clarifications should be made to the text of the bill, if adopted, when signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. Please support the committee's decision to take into account the sound. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u15	Yes, thank you, too. Dear colleagues, I see that there is a need to discuss this issue, please register. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Moses, Paul Zebrowsky, please. Gregory Smythe next will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u16	There was an advertising pause for the gift of this textbook. So what I'm saying is that you don't have to teach people that way, this law you're crossing out what you wrote good in this textbook. In principle, for today, unfortunately, what is being offered. Peter Volodymyrovich, unfortunately, did not say that the scientific expertise does not support this bill for the most part. This bill consists of three things. The first is the adjustment of the budget schedule. There are no questions, but this is a matter that is regulated by budgetary legislation. Minfin has the right to adjust the budget schedule. The second question. Let's say we borrow money from a treasury account on "Kravtododor." This is prohibited, expressly prohibited by the Budget Code, because the budget code allows only cash breaks to cover the Pension Fund and local budgets. The "snatching" is not allowed by budget cuts, in principle, to cover cash breaks. And the third question is that without the approval of the changes to the Budget Act, it is proposed that the money that has been given additional credits be directed to Ukraine. No one opposes the construction of roads, but this again goes against the budget code. I, my dear friends, want to say that if today the majority vote, the Supreme Council will turn into a fig leaf that covers the embarrassment of the President and the government, because today, if the Supreme Council spits on the Budget Code, it doesn't take into account the legislation that it adopts, but just political relevance, it's not the Supreme Council, it's no more and no less today. Today, to write books, to teach students, we need to learn how to carry out legislation and then submit such bills. Dear friends, I urge you not to vote. And if you vote, I firmly deny that immediately, as the law has been passed, let's say, yes, the very bad thing that Mr. Melnik has offered to Mr. Melnik to offer. Relevance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u17	Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! My personal view is that budget adjustment is a natural phenomenon and, as a result of the situation that has arisen today in the road construction of our country, we must certainly go back to this issue. But I had a question, and I would have asked the author of the legislative initiative, but in a reduced procedure, they wouldn't allow it, so I took the floor to speak. If this question arises, why doesn't the Cabinet of Ministers come out, first of all, with this bill? Because, of course, the intervention of the Cabinet of Ministers and its relevant services, which are involved in this, especially the Ministry of Finance, is the main position, because we are making changes to the state budget. And of course, these changes, if they need them, and in their presence we see that this is what is needed in this adjustment plan, is, of course, their point of view very important. And I would like, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to propose the following. There's a Deputy Minister of Finance here to hear how they feel about this issue, because it applies, of course, that during the financial year we are interfering with the budget that has already been adopted. In particular, I will vote in favour of this law, but in the first reading, in order to get answers to a very important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u19	Thank you. Who else insists on the performance? None. Please take the position of the Cabinet of Ministers on this matter. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u20	The Ministry of Finance supports the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u21	Please, the Cabinet of Ministers supports this project. Dear colleagues, you have a decision to make. I'm informing you once again that the committee is offering to take as a basis the whole. Well, one minute, I haven't said yet. There is a denial, so it will be put to the vote as a basis. A number of comments to the bill were made by the chief scientific and scientific administration and the legal administration. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the financing of the road economy]] Please vote. [[16:20:09]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear people's deputies, please, dear colleagues, calm down! In view of the fact that we cannot put to the vote, since the two speakers have made warnings, I suggest that the honourable colleagues put the proposal to the vote, taking into account the importance of the document, prepare it for the second reading under a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[16:21:00]] For 254 Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we may have had discussions that we had. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Obviously, we're going to be holding a plenary session of 11 numbers. But so that there were no warnings about what the weekends were -- we couldn't make the right proposals, we made that decision. I think we made the right decision with you. Dear colleagues, I am submitting to your consideration a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and approving export duty rates for certain types of grain crops. [[Export]] The rapporteur is Deputy Finance Minister Shevchenko. They'll be speaking from the committee. Ah, there's the head of the Vitaly Hometic. The committee suggests that this issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[16:22:11]] For 222 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the national deputies, the honourable ones present! The draft law proposed for consideration has been developed by the government to increase revenues to the State budget of Ukraine by an increase of half the price for the use of nadram, an increase in the interest rates for oil and gas condensate, VAT on services included in port assemblies, as well as the inclusion of advisory, bookkeeping and other similar services in VAT taxation; an increase in the rate of collection in the form of an effective tariff on electricity and heat, by 1 per cent, which will increase the wholesale electricity market by only 0.46 per cent per kilowatt; and the introduction of an export duty on wheat, barley and maize by 9 per cent, 14 per cent and 12 per cent respectively. In general, the implementation of the project, if adopted, will be in line with the current tax and investment policy tasks, as well as allowing for an additional contribution of about four billion dollars to Ukraine’s State budget and other payments. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u23	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy considered Bill 8321 at its meeting. In fact, the bill consists of two parts. The first part is to raise interest rates for oil production in Ukraine and to pay for the use of nadrama. And a block of positions that relate to the rise of one or more rent positions, such as gas condensate, oil, gas rent, and so is the charge for using nadrama. This is the first block of questions. The second block of issues is the introduction of export duties into certain types of crops. Proposal: To set export duties on wheat, barley, corn from 9 to 14 percent with a fixed rate of at least 23 euros, 20 euros and 17 euros respectively, is essentially a bill. As for the committee's decision. Well, first of all, the committee decided that not everyone would combine all positions in a single bill and mix tax code issues, rents and charges for drug use with customs legislation relating to export export duties. So the committee proposed all the positions that relate to the resource rules for the Tax Code to be removed from the project and to refer to the draft changes to the Tax Code that we adopted with you on Tuesday, i.e. to the second reading, to introduce this whole block and to look thoroughly at what positions we should increase the rent payments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u26	Given that these same payments have been raised since January 1st and for which adjustments can be made. Because we didn't get enough justification from the Ministry of Finance and according to the Cabinet of Ministers. And as for the second block, we left this particular block with respect to customs for some types of grain crops, and we changed the name of this law accordingly, so in a committee-worked edition it sounds like: "for export duty rates for certain types of grain crops." With regard to the appropriateness of introducing these bets and the exact magnitude of these bets, this is a separate discussional issue on which the committee also has different opinions, different positions. Therefore, the proposal to adopt this law in the first reading with possible future accelerated work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u27	Thank you, sit down, please. Please sign up for the performance. Sergey Tereshuk, please give me your word, the faction of the People's Party. The next one will act.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u28	Dear colleagues! Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! Remember, in the last plenary session, we had discussions about the adoption of the quota law for grain exports, and the discussions were in the hall. We convinced each other, or not each other, we were convinced that we needed to make the quota so that the market would be transparent, although there was a warning, the price of production would be lower. And it's all going to be on the manufacturer's side. Today we have the next bill, which predicts that we're going to introduce a bribe, we're going to vote and there's going to be a tax, for example, on corn, for example, 20 euros, not in percent, there's also absolute numbers, 20 euros per tonne. You know, I asked the traders, and they say, and we don't care, let them bring in 50 and 100. We're just going to lower the price that we're going to pay to the peasants. You could still understand the Cabinet of Ministers, so that it would be written that this money would accumulate, and then it would go up to a hectare of sown, to a ton of manufactured products, that they were returning to the producers. Dear colleagues, we're at the forefront of the land market, that's what we're talking about, we're consciously making our businesses have fewer profits, less owners, less farmers, so we're putting the village in a worse situation. So if we're going to adopt this bill, we need to clearly write out where the funds are going to be sent after the due is paid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u29	Andros, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's giving up the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u30	Please pass the word to Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u31	Gregory Kaletnik, please. Sergey Sass will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The first thing I would like to say, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, is that we listened to the report of the Deputy Minister of Finance on a bill registered with the Supreme Council. From the rostrum, we heard a co-reporter say that this bill is called in a different way, and he's not at all what Chevchenko was talking about. So what kind of bill do we have to discuss, and now we have to accept it? Does the Rules allow us to change matters? There is order to withdraw the bill, to introduce another bill. So just for these reasons, I would like to suggest that we postpone the consideration of Bill 8321 to the organization and registration of the two bills, as the head of the Committee of the Homutinnik said, where there should be a bill for the Tax Code and where there should be a bill on the export duties to the Customs Code. That's the first time. It's a matter of fact. So I don't think it's necessary to waste time, because basically this bill that regulates grain, grain crops and customs, it wasn't even on the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, we didn't discuss it. And I can only rely on what law enforcement has done. But in addition to comments that are not included in the standard under the general tariff agreement signed by Ukraine, it is not yet in line with them. So there is a proposal to postpone consideration of this bill for the next plenary week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u33	Kravczuk, please, the Faction "BUT" is the Fatherland. The next act will be by Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u34	Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." First of all, I agree with my colleague Karmazin, who has already given an assessment and called this bill the word he said. Secondly, we have already adopted the Tax Code and every week we amend it. I can imagine what would happen to the adoption of this law for agricultural producers. First of all, the bill lists goods that change their rates of export duty as being removed from the free trade regime. And the reporter said it would affect the investment appeal. I can't imagine how this could affect investment attractiveness. Just negative. Second, the world price will be the same for wheat, barley, corn. But the price for agricultural producers with the adoption of this law will be directly reduced by the percentages or by the fixed price provided for in the bill. I want to talk to the peasants that with the adoption of this government law, the price of wheat will immediately go down by 200 dollars for the producers, the barley will go down by 250 dollars per tonne, and the corn will also go down by 230 dollars per tonne. Thus, with the adoption of this law, agricultural producers will continue to be cornered, and they have already been proved and are on the verge of bankruptcy. The Timoshenko-Badakishina bloc will not vote in favour of this bill and calls on other factions not to support it, because it is a criminal bill prepared by the government for peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u35	Paul Zebravsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u36	Even so, respectable colleagues, some of this work of government and stone will not be left of Ukraine. Three questions. The first question is the introduction of duties on grain. I want to say that by this year, 20 percent is already in principle part of the cost structure of grain, and this has made it cheaper for farmers to buy 20 percent of the grain. Let's do a little extra duty and then it's going to be really good, and we're going to end up with agriculture, we're going to solve the issue. The second question is, this is a so-called target supplement. What I'm trying to say is that by now, Ukraine's electricity is more expensive for the industry than it is in Russia, with 49 percent of the nuclear energy that literally costs a penny. The Ukrainian industry is becoming uncompetitive, compared with its neighbors, and attention needs to be paid to this. Not enough, the target supplement was introduced to extract nuclear energy from the resource and it was going to accumulate, this target supplement, on a separate account. Minfin has been using this money for years, and no aid to industry and GDP growth is possible. Now the third question is about rent payments. Perhaps this is related to the fact that Livella was once again won by the court, the administrative court, the Supreme Administrative Court refused to review the issue of the duty-free import of petroleum products into Ukraine. And if we raise rents today to gas, oil, and all sorts of other things, Ukraine is going to stop getting all these things. This is called "importisamine things," and this is called "the oppression of your own manufacturer." So, summarizing, as of today, Minfin has proposed to destroy several sectors of the economy of Ukraine. This is agriculture, once, this is industry, because of the increase in the target supplement, two, and this is the oil sector, three. So it's a criminal law. And today it's not a Ukrainian government, it's a government that's basically a government.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u37	Carmazine, line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u38	I didn't hurt him. I hurt him. I've been criticizing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u39	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I want to tell the National MP that you were actually right. But you didn't say that Carmazin called this law stupid. And I'll tell you why. Because 197 here is the amendment to the Tax Code, an article is being eliminated that exempts the taxation of services provided to foreign vessels and domestic vessels that carry out international passenger, luggage, cargo, and so on. So you're raising taxes right now. All your openness, all your prognosis in the summer, once. The other one. You're destroying our domestic oil sector for the benefit of foreign structures is two. And the third. You raise the price and you lower the price for peasants is three. Thus, only morons can propose such a law. That's why I called him fat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u40	Garbage, microphone, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u41	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, of course, this bill has the appropriateness of the standards to be introduced in Ukraine. And I'm going to tell you this. If you look at crops, you don't have to talk about what the peasants lose, the peasants don't export. And they're making a lot of money, and they're exporting at a cheap price, and they're selling it at a high price. Therefore, the order in export duties should be specified. And I will support the standard that applies to the introduction of a specific tax in order to send them to support agricultural production. But on the other hand, I'm surprised. Why do we remove other than natural gas, that the rents that are used for more than 20 billion gas in Ukraine are not increasing. Why do we turn it off? So I would suggest that you turn on natural gas, including natural gas. In terms of electricity tariffs, heat energy, unfortunately, our industry today gets these services higher than we import, in this case, electricity, beyond the border. So this law, if adopted, is only in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The thoughts are different, diametrically opposite. Therefore, if the Supreme Council supports it as a basis, it will have to continue to work seriously. If not, no. If not, no. Well, you listen to it all the way. In accordance with the Committee's decision, I propose the adoption of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and the approval of export (export) rates for certain types of cereals (registration No. 8321). [[B in m in s a l in]] [[16:39:20]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u43	We are considering: a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to increase the responsibility of officials of state authorities and local self-government bodies. [[Registration number 7497]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:39:58]] For 214 Initiative supported. Reported the deputy head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Yacushina Galina Mikolayovna. From the Committee on Oily Volodymyr to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u44	Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished present! This bill is the cornerstone of the system of deregulation regulations and is defined by the Committee on Economic Reforms of the President of Ukraine as the first priority. The drafting of this bill is based on the need to increase the responsibility of officials of public authorities for failing to implement legislation that regulates the sphere of entrepreneurial activity. That list of administrative offences that exist today in the area of entrepreneurship and the size of sanctions for their actions do not carry out the educational function that today is based on administrative responsibility and does not contribute to the prevention of new infringements in the relevant sphere. Please note the principle of this bill. First, the bill foresees a two-step responsibility: for the first time in this area, for the first time in this area, a fine of 30-50 untaxed minimums and for the second time a similar breach over the year, the dismissal of an official for a court decision. Next. The bill lays down the responsibility for the type of infringements that are most characteristic of the field of economic activity, covering five directions. First of all, the violation of the permit system, the breach of the time limits for the issuance of permits, the refusal of the permit authority of the holder on grounds not established by law, the revocation of the permit on grounds not established by law, the groundless refusal of the acceptance of the application and the receipt of the permit document, the failure of the contractor to refuse or consent to the issuance of the document, the issuing of the document outside the centre of the permit, and the issuing of a permit that is not established by law. The second direction is not to take action by the city head or the head of the district government regarding the organization of work and the material and technical provision of the free centre. The third direction is in the area of licensing. Provides a violation of the issue of licences.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u45	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u46	This law will greatly improve the investment climate in Ukraine and reduce corruption. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u47	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolayovich Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u48	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to increase the responsibility of officials of the State authorities and local authorities. The purpose of the bill is to set up charges for infringements of legislation in the area of entrepreneurial activity. In particular, legislation on State regulatory policy, procedures for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature by the authorities, their officials, legislation on the state registration of legal acts. The bill is intended to expand the list of administrative offences in the field of economic activity for which administrative responsibility is proposed. In doing so, it strengthens the governmental influence on those who commit these offences. After considering a draft amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to increase the responsibilities of government officials and local authorities, the Committee noted a number of major shortcomings in its text. In addition, when creating new administrative and legal rules, the drafters did not overlook the social danger of acting as a material sign of wrongdoing. Therefore, according to the nature and degree of social danger, it is proposed that the same administrative sanctions be provided. It should be noted that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill makes it appropriate to reject the bill. As a result, two proposals were put to the vote by the committee on the bill. First. Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis. And the second is to reject the bill. It should be noted that the votes of the members of the committee were equally divided, fifty to fifty. Therefore, the decision on the outcome of a preliminary review of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u49	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u50	For the consideration of the Supreme Council, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u51	Yes, are they desirable? Sign up. Chechatov. Prepare Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft legislative act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the responsibilities of officials of the public authorities and local self-government bodies is aimed at setting up sequestrations for infringements of legislation in the area of entrepreneurial activity. In particular, legislation on State regulatory policy, procedures for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature by the authorities, their officials, legislation on the State registration of legal acts. The main task of the bill is to increase the number of administrative offences in the areas mentioned, for which the draft act provides for administrative responsibility, to increase the influence of the State on the perpetrators. This, in turn, will lead to a reduction in the number of administrative offences in the areas noted. This bill can be considered in the context of the deregulation policy initiated and led by the President, aimed at improving the efficiency of the economy, ensuring the prospects for small business and business development. The faction of the Party of the Regions suggests that the session hall adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u53	Thank you. Moses sends Lapinius, please. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u54	Thank you, Xenia Lapina, party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, this law is certainly very, with many internal contradictions. On the one hand, I personally support this law. Of course, there are some novices here. For example, article 166. 14 is a violation of legislation in the sphere of national regulatory policy. For example, the adoption of any legal act without a regulatory impact analysis. Just five minutes ago, the Supreme Council did just that by adopting a bill that had no calculations on export duties on grain and increased rent payments. Then it's time for the entire Supreme Council to be released, and that would be the right thing to do. The second article, which is here, 188.37 is a violation of the legislation on state registration of legal acts. You know what happens to us that we publish without proper government registration. But, dear colleagues, according to the Constitution, the registration of acts should take place in the order established by law, and we have not yet established such an order by law. Who's to be fired? I think it's the Supreme Council again. But I want to pay attention to the following. The most effective norm that should work in this law is the amendments to the Labour Code. But this rule is the most contradictory, and that is, it says that the authorized authority should terminate the contract with the official who did it over and over again, for example, the same violations that I mentioned, for example, approved the regulatory act without having a regulatory impact analysis or, for example, failed to take appropriate action with regard to the state registration of the act. It's written that he needs to be released. But how can we force an officer to be released without proper grounds? I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u55	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u56	I'm done. This rule, unfortunately, will again be declarative and unlikely to be effective. I propose that the room back up this bill, but to understand that in the way that Mr. Carmazin said, he looks, I won't say that word, he'll say that himself. Therefore, we need to work on it seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u57	Zarubinsky Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u58	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I'd like to give you 10 seconds of what we've accepted. And 7032 is called the Bill of Amendments to the UEFA Tax Code. It sounds clear that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to tax UEFA. I think it's going to have to be fixed just to avoid it, we can't tax UEFA, UN, FIFA, or so on. As far as this bill is concerned, there are absolutely two correct positions in the argument base. The first thing I see is that it increases the responsibility of officials for failing to comply with legislation, which should be a stronger responsibility. And second moment. Just a minute. And the second point is that the current list of administrative offences does not perform the educational function that is based on administrative responsibility. It was the authors of the bill who formulated the idea quite correctly. But in general, it cannot be accepted. Why? Because there are a few things here that don't fit this idea. For example, look. "The Ukrainian Code of Administrative Responsibility provides for the responsibility of exclusively natural persons." Right? That's right. The proposed new draft refers to the actions of an organ, not a natural person. Imagine a situation where the actions of a member of an authorized authority who has not notified or untimely reported the refusal to issue a document of a permissive nature will draw or produce the responsibility of officials of the same body, although the latter may have nothing to do with the violation. Do you understand what this is about? This needs to be corrected, I think, in preparation for the second reading. One more moment. There is a fine of between 30 and 50 untaxed minimum citizens’ income regardless of their social damage. This is unfair. You understand perfectly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u59	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u60	There may be a completely minor breach, or there may be a deliberate violation for mercantile purposes, and it is determined to be exactly the same, and a fairly small fine. I think the meaningful part of this project needs to be taken very seriously, although the idea is obviously correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u61	Yes, please, Carmazin, a minute. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u62	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! This is a rare case where I agree in this case with representatives of the majority who say that this law cannot be passed, and I agree with Kseniya Mikhailna. Because when writing this law and passing through the minister of justice, who sees all these things, without notice, notice, the minister of justice must be released only after the outcome of today. Look how many holes are coming today! But Livella rules, and let the administrative court live under Pasenuk's leadership too! Dear friends, there is a disciplinary misconduct with administrative misconduct. Isn't that obvious? In the six pages of the Main Science Department, you said you can't take it -- you have to go back. Because of this, the law is completely out of hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u63	The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibility of officials of the public authorities and local self-government bodies. [[Registration number 7497]] Please vote. [[16:54:00]] For 254 Copy that. We are considering: a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning regulation of markets in financial services. [[Registration number 7511]] Suggested for reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:54:30]] For 217 Supported. Please, Volga Vasil Aleksandrovich, head of the State Commission for Financial Services Regulation. From the Klimenko Committee to prepare. Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u64	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposed for your consideration is designed to implement the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme and the 2010 State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine. The project is designed to amend two laws of Ukraine, namely: "On government regulation of the securities market in Ukraine" and "On financial services and government regulation of financial services markets." The basic position of the bill is this. First, to ensure disclosure of information about the final owners of non-bank financial institutions. Such information is expected to be disclosed to the regulators of non-bank financial institutions, the State Commission for Settlement of Financial Services Markets, and the State Commissions for Securities and Stock Markets and Shareholders of the Financial Institution. Secondly, the granting to authorised regulators of non-bank financial institutions of agreement on the acquisition or increase of significant participation in non-bank financial institutions. Such officials will prevent financial institutions from managing persons with a stigmatized business reputation and laundering of funds obtained by criminal means. In the event that any person acquires or increases his or her substantial participation without the consent of the regulators, he or she will be removed from the management of the financial institution. The size of the thresholds in capital or voting rights that need to be met by a regulator is determined by the magnitude that is likely to have a single influence on management in some way or other in accordance with the legislation on shareholding societies. With a view to properly implementing the ideas set out in the draft, the bill provides for the identification of, and control of, the essential involvement of an affelified and connected person. Proposed rules for disclosure and control of financial institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u65	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u66	It should be emphasized that the prescriptions regarding the need to obtain agreement on the acquisition or increase of substantial participation in financial institutions will not have retroactive force, and the exclusion from the administration of the financial institution of persons who, after the acquisition of the law, did not agree with the regulator of the new acquisition, or the increase in their substantial participation in the institution is not a waiver of ownership. The bill is in line with European law, in fact, a similar experience already established in domestic banking legislation and applied by the National Bank in the practice of banking regulation. The adoption of the bill will allow for greater transparency in the activities of non-bank financial institutions, the quality of their management, improved mechanisms for protecting consumers' rights and preventing violations in financial services markets. Finally, let me draw your attention to the fact that this bill will provide the regulators of non-bank financial services with the necessary tools for the proper exercise of the consolidated supervision provided for in the first reading of the bill, number 7399, on supervision of a consolidated basis. Please support the bill, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u67	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitaly
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! The committee considered the bill under registration number 7511 by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the author thoroughly reported on the substance of the bill, so I can only say the main purpose of the bill, which contains the main substance, is to increase the power of government regulators of non-bank financial services markets and to strengthen control over these markets. The committee had a discussion on many issues in this bill, there were positions in favour, there were positions in the opposite. The final decision of the committee is to take the basis for the second reading and to work out all the positions that have a certain discussion. The committee therefore recommends the adoption of Bill 7511 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u69	Will We Discuss? None. Then I put to the vote a proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on regulation of markets in financial services. Please vote. [[Registration number 7511]] [[17:00:10]] For 256 Decision taken. We are considering: the draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on improving the institutional and legal framework for the fight against crime and corruption]] [[Registration number 8255]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:00:45]] For 225 Supported. Please report to Gusarov Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is on a bill to improve the institutional and legal framework in the fight against crime and corruption in the internal affairs system. The Ukrainian Police Act establishes that internal security units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs are part of the administration's structure to combat organized crime. Based on the fact that the internal security units have the basic functions, such as, firstly, the function of protecting the individual composition of the structural units of internal affairs from interference with their lives and health, secondly, and the role of warning and detection of abuse by employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, corruption, and other offences. The copyright team believes and believes that in order to increase the efficiency of work, raise the role and responsibility of the internal security unit, they must be self-sustaining structures, units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Thus, the purpose of the bill is, firstly, to ensure the independence of the internal security unit from other structural units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, secondly, to raise the role and responsibilities of internal security personnel, thirdly, to ensure the timely conduct of operational and search-and-research measures provided for in the current legislation. The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration support the initiative on its adoption as a basis. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is initiating this issue. Please accept the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u71	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement, Gritzak Vasil Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u72	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection has been reviewed and submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Malishev, Beblaz, Husar's draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on improving the institutional and legal framework in the fight against crime and corruption]] [[No. 8255]] The purpose of the bill is to organize the legislative status of the internal security units of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Security. The project amends the Ukrainian Police Act, on the organizational and legal basis of the fight against organized crime and the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no comments and believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. The committee at its meeting carefully considered the bill. We have come to the conclusion of the Committee to Combat Organized Crime and Corruption and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. All of this law is supported. Moreover, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine appealed to the Head of the Supreme Council for the adoption of the bill. In view of this, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. [[No. 8255]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u73	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Yeah, except for the Omelchenka, nobody insists anymore? Sign up. Please, Moses is handing over Grigory to the Omelchen, please. Prepare the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u74	Dear colleagues! 18 years have passed when a bill on the organizational basis of the fight against organized crime and corruption in our country was adopted in this room. There is a time that needs to be changed. There have been some reforms in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system, including the organizational nature. Our Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime discussed proposals that were introduced and amended and supplemented by the bill. They're really urgent and they need to be accepted, the more they get the approval of another profiling committee and the Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But here's what I'd like to pay attention to. There will be other changes, perhaps before this legislation, or when the whole draft anti-corruption laws that we have adopted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine begin to work and will be an appropriate practice. And further organizational changes, or reforms in the system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Therefore, with the opportunity and presence of the Deputy Minister of Interior, Sergey Petrovich, I appeal to you as head of the Subcommittee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime. What if there is a need to make any changes and additions in connection with your reform of the IMF system and the relevant structural units will need to be made to the relevant legislative acts. So that it doesn't stretch out, maybe for a few months, or maybe six months, or maybe we could work with two law enforcement committees and our committee. So that these bills can be quickly regulated and submitted to the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and you will receive, I think, appropriate professional support and assistance from these two professional committees. I refer to our colleagues as they say the law is absolutely not political or ideological. It's purely legal and legal, which requires necessary changes and additions, to vote in favour of adoption in the first reading. And, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, literally 30 seconds, if you can, even put it in a reduced procedure, in a week.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u75	Chapel, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! The bill proposes to separate the Internal Security Service from the Directorate General for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and to legally establish the independence of this service activity and its departments. You know, at a meeting of the parliamentary group at the expert council on Monday, we drew attention to this bill and we fully support these. Because the performance assigned to the given sub-sections of tasks must be fully independent. Or you may remember when representatives of the environmental service who receive a salary in the same cash register, where all businesses cannot actually point to a violation. Therefore, the means of ensuring such independence is the direct subordination of internal security units directly to the Minister of Internal Affairs, which will ensure that other officials are prevented from interfering in their activities. We fully support this and give 20 votes for this bill to be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u77	Zarubinsky. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich, your honorary colleagues, the faction of the People's Party supports this bill, based on the analysis we have carried out. Comparative analysis: what is the situation that exists in services or internal security agencies in other countries? Where there is a real fight against crime, including in the law enforcement environment, there is certainly a unit dealing with internal security that is not subordinated to the general institution but directly subordinated to either the minister or, at least, to the deputy minister. Therefore, the proposal of the legislator is progressive and may likely become, well, I don’t know if it’s very large, but in principle a step forward in the fight against crime in the law enforcement agencies themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u79	Yes, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. Indeed, in preparation for the second reading you will have to look at some nuances cause, as it were, ambiguity. For example, it is added that the main task of the police is to ensure the security of the Ministry. Maybe we should say something different: units or structures. Because it seems like the main task of the police is to protect the Ministry's premises. It narrows it down. I mean, it's legal. Yes, I think all of this can be fixed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on improving the institutional and legal framework for the fight against crime and corruption]] [[Registration number 8255]] Please vote. [[17:10:44]] For 276 Copy that. And there was a committee proposal to make a decision to shorten the procedure for preparing for second reading. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please vote. [[17:11:08]] For 243 Offer supported. We're talking about: the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great Homeland War 1941-1945. Find me at least one "Our Ukraine" faction manager. I don't have a signature. I want to see at least one of the leaders of the faction "Our Ukraine." Well, they'll come, then we'll call it a break. The question is: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great National War of 1941-1945. [[on the order in which copies of the Victory Flag are officially used]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[17:12:01]] For 242 Decision taken. Please, the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons: Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, 4 minutes. Dear colleagues, I'll explain the situation. Two factions, but I have doubts that this is the signature of the faction manager, please show me alive at least one of the leaders of the faction of our Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Others, others, others. Nothing will change when you announce your break. So let the leader of your faction or his deputies go. Please, Peter Stepanovich, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u80	The Communist faction, head of the Council of the Veterans' Organization, Peter Cibenko. Fellow citizens of Ukraine, respected veterans of the Great Homeland War! On the eve of the glorious event -- the 66th anniversary of the victory of the Soviet people in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945 -- we are considering a bill that is a tribute to the sacred memory of veterans, the victorious frontists, the gift of memory and the living and the dead. The symbol of the Great Homeland War, the symbol of the Great Victory over Fascism, is the Flag of Victory. The flag of Victory represents the flag of the 150th Order of Kutusov, the third stage of the Idric archery division, raised on May 1, 1945 above the Reichstag building in Berlin. The bill that we are considering today provides for the formalization of the use of a copy of this symbol by amending the Ukrainian law on the perpetuation of Victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. The bill is proposed. [[B in m in s a l in]] The bill provides for the social use of a copy of the Victory Flag during the solemn events dedicated to Victory Day, carried out by the authorities of the State, local authorities, organizations, public associations, the laying of crowns on the grave of the Unknown Soldier in Kiev and other monuments of the Great Homeland War in 1945-1941. On Victory Day and other days related to the events of the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945, the days of liberation and the days of defense of the settlements from the German-Fashistic invaders official rise on Victory Day of the Flags of Victory on houses, masts, flags next to the flag of the State. [[B in m in s a l in]] By the way, it should be recalled that on April 14, last year, a working meeting was held in Moscow for the Ukrainian Defence Minister Michael Ježel with Russian Defence Minister Anatoly Serdukov, during which the Russian Defence Minister handed over to the head of the Russian Defence Department Michael Ježel the authentic copy of the Victory Flag and the corresponding certificate. A copy was made on behalf of the Ukrainian side. The science-expert management is offering to take it as a basis. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons proposes that it be accepted as a basis. Both the first deputy chairman of the committee and the head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council are proposing to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u81	Who wants to share in the discussion? Please sign up. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov. Prepare Shishkini.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear friends! Let us ask ourselves one question when we become a powerful, prosperous democratic, free Ukrainian Power?Oh, my God! I think it's only when we stop being ashamed of the heroic past of our country, our people! When we cease to be ashamed of the immortal feat of our fathers and grandfathers, who destroyed fascism at the cost of their lives! Today, the whole world is bowing its head to the heroism of a Soviet soldier, Russian and Ukrainian, who broke Fascism and defended the world on earth! Today, a monument is being erected in Israel to the heroism, the immortal feat of a Soviet soldier! The whole world bows to the immortality of soldiers who stopped the Fascist plague! And we're ashamed! It's like we're afraid of getting confused. We must be proud of our fathers and grandfathers! This Flag of Victory is filled with the blood of millions of soldiers who have come from Moscow to Berlin with victory and have protected the world on earth and today's sky, a cloudless sky above our heads! Therefore, the adoption of this law and the fact that the flag of the Soviet Union is not the flag of the Soviet Union, but the flag of victory, the flag of victory with which the Soviet Union has destroyed the Reichstag, will be the greatest memory for today's war veterans. Not so much a pill, not so much a medicine as our memory that their life on the altar of Victory is remembered today, it is in the souls, hearts of all mankind and with you. It's the best medicine for them. Therefore, we propose to vote in favour of the victory flag, which is covered by the blood of millions of Soviet soldiers who have broken Fascism, to rule on trees. ( and) [[Noise in the Hall]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u83	Shishkina, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u84	Yeah. Well, compared to the previous speech, Goebbels generally rests and smokes nervously in the party. Dear colleagues, please raise the flag of Ukraine above for everyone to see, first of all. And second of all, I'm handing the word to my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u85	Thank you, you may continue, but do not pass on the word. Please continue, because you have started speaking. If you'll excuse me, it's in the Rules. Please continue. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u86	Then I'll say so. Enough of this speculation on a historical subject! Enough of Mr. Goebbels-style propaganda! Everyone's sick of it. And enough to disengage the people of Ukraine -- both of them fighting for their own country, which everyone saw in their own way. So enough of us are fascist propaganda that we have heard in the previous speech. Thank you. I'm for Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u87	Karmazin, you pass the word, Yura, right? Guys, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u88	Ukrainians! Now in this room, they're trying to get Ukraine back into neo-Emperal space, into Russian peace. I would like to point out that in Ukraine, according to the Constitution of paragraph 20, there is only one national flag, which is a blue and yellow flag. And according to the President's decree on May 9th, this is a state holiday that can only be honored by one flag. And we don't need to talk about the veterans of the Great Homeland War here today. I have in my hands a letter from the veterans of the All - Ukrainian Union of Veterans of the Great Homeland War, led by Yukhnovsky, who fought on the front.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u89	Who's the SS?Oh, my God! War veterans?Oh, my God! Do you have the right to talk about it?Oh, my God! And these people are asking that this law not be passed. This law will only disunite Ukrainian society. This is the thing that brought us together, the common sorrow of the past and all that brought evil under that red flag that they want to hang all over Ukraine. There's probably no MP in the room who didn't have someone killed in the family or in the Holodomor, where someone didn't die from the NCCD repression, it was done under the bloody red star that's on that flag, it was done under the red flag. Today, you want to dishonor the memory of our parents who were innocently killed by executioners, Bolsheviks who came under the red flag. I call the entire room to the law, to the observance of Ukrainian legislation. According to the law, this flag has no place in the Ukrainian state, this flag cannot hang on the streets of our houses. You want to sow divisions in society, it's the Kremlin's task, it's the Communists' task, it's the Party of the Regions' task, to argue with each other's veterans of the Great Homeland War, and to argue with Ukrainian patriots to hang a flag, and others to tear it down. Do you want to split Ukraine? You won't split it, the red will never pass, and we'll never go back to the terrible past that we had with that flag. I call upon the deputies of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u90	Please, Kamchatny, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, let's calm down and be civilized by a nation, a civilized country. Consider the examples of European countries where nations can be reconciled to the reconciliation of patriots who fought at different ends from different fronts. Today it's not about colors, I think it's about a symbol -- the symbol of victory -- it's very important. No one takes down the fact that the State Flag is the main flag at all our festivals, but the Flag of Victory has the right to be at such a feast. And that's why our group, at least most of it, calls for national reconciliation. And we're going to talk about this when we discuss a bill on the 70th anniversary of the partisan movement on the Summit. And today I urge everyone, let's be tolerant, let's do everything we can to make peace. Today, all the patriots were also in Western Ukraine, eastern Ukraine. They all fought for the independence of our country. And these people need to be treated with respect today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u92	Question completed. Let's be clear. Dear colleagues, literally two words. Let us not, indeed, be politicized, for listening to some of the speakers gives the impression that the first thing was to surrender and not fight. It is suggested that the Germans were attacked, hands up, and the state was surrendered. And second, it's kind of like, believe me, I know a lot better than anyone who's yelling right now, which is what I'm talking about right now. It seems that some of you today would like a large part of Ukraine, namely, Western Ukraine, Bukovina, and Carpathian, to remain under the control of other states, rather than being part of Ukraine’s own. Since it would not have been 1945, there would have been no Ukraine. I put to the vote the adoption of the Amendments Act of Ukraine on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. [[on the order in which copies of the Victory Flag are officially used]] [[Registration number 8157]] Please vote. In the whole of the law. [[17:24:18]] For 260 The law is passed. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we need to now consider the laws we've been talking about. Comparative tables are. And the decision will be included. It'll be all right. A draft Act amending certain legislation on the arrest of assets related to the financing of terrorism and relating to financial transactions suspended in accordance with a decision taken on the basis of the UN Security Council resolutions and determining the order of access to such assets is under consideration. [[second reading]] [[Registration number 8224]] The committee is headed by the committee's subcommittee on the fight against organized crime and corruption, Omelchenko Grigori Omelanovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u93	Honourable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues of the People's Deputies of Ukraine! Your commission is to consider for second reading the proposed bill to amend some of the legislation on the arrest of assets related to terrorist financing and financial transactions, which are suspended on the basis of a decision taken on the basis of the UN Security Council resolutions, and to determine the order of access to such assets. [[Registration number 8224]] Dear colleagues, you have been presented with proposals and comments to this bill by the national MPs: European 3 proposals and Yuri Karmazin 5. I want to make some remarks that the proposals made by Yuri Carmazin came to the committee at 11 a.m. this morning, so they didn't go to the comparative table, but I'll talk about them separately. The committee on the morning, at 9 a.m., reviewed the proposals made in order. And of those who came from the national deputy of Voropejev Yuri Mikolaiovich, I want to thank him for being on the committee and actively participating in the discussion. Two of them were counted, the other one was rejected. So just so you don't take your time and work out these bills, I'm going to say one more thing. The comments that came from the Legal Authority on this bill. There are some observations, but not the specific content, but the general kind. And the committee made a decision, taking into account the suggestions that were made, the refusal to accept this law in second reading and in general as a law. And now I'm asking the chairman to go straight to those suggestions and comments that were, come to our committee and were taken into account or rejected. Oh, please, on offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u94	Yes, dear fellows, all the corrections except one are taken into account. Not including the third amendment of Voropeyeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u95	He agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u96	He agreed. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u97	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u98	That's how.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u99	Just a minute, please. So there's no claim from Yuri Carmazin. His proposals came.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u100	Whose?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u101	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u102	Carmazine?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u103	Yeah. His proposals came to the committee today at 11 o'clock, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u104	Today?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u105	Yeah, 11 o'clock. The committee meeting was at nine o'clock. Now, it's already been distributed into reproduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u106	Right. How many suggestions are there?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u107	There were 5 offers, 5 offers. We counted one, four down. If necessary, I can read them so you know if anyone asks a question, you'll put it to a vote so there's no claim.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u108	No, come on, let's do it this way. Yuri Anatolyovich, you'll say the word, and then we'll decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u109	Actually, Adam Ivanovich. Yuri Carmazin. I'm sorry that we're doing everything we can to stimulate the situation in society, and we're doing everything we can to turn the legislative process into something different. I've made my offer early, early, I'm warning you. So in the Rules of Procedure law time, so I have the right to include them in the table, they're not included in the table. In addition to everything else, the general conclusion of the legal system should have been to work on a second reading. Well, I insist that you, Gregory Omelanovic, read my amendments, give them an explanation, and I can explain. But my rights are violated, and I am offended as a subject, so because I am not in the table, neither journalists nor MPs have been handed out, it is not normal. Do you understand? And what we do is not a normal adoption of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u110	Deputies were handed out, deputies were handed out. Once again, if Yuri Anatolyevich insists on his proposals, we will put them to the vote. What a proposition, read it, rock it, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u111	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u112	What should we comment on? All right, read it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u113	Dear colleagues! I told you that the committee's meeting took place at nine o'clock in the morning, there were comments, the proposals made by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin in our committee at 11 o'clock, so they didn't fall, but they're reproduced and distributed to the national deputies, they're in your hands. His proposals were registered yesterday on an expedition at 5:00 p.m. for 30 minutes. The committee arrived at 11 o'clock, but it's so technical, not that. That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u114	First sentence, read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u115	The first sentence in paragraphs one and two of article 183. 4 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality to replace the word "submission" with the words "administrative action" and we support it because it's a definition in the administrative code, and that's to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u116	I'm voting on the proposal to support Karmazin's proposal, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u117	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u118	Vote, Yuri Anatolyovich. [[17:30:58]] For 252 Supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u119	Second offer. Part five of this article is edited as follows: “The order essentially claims shall be taken by the court in an open court not later than the following working day from the date of the receipt of the statement by the applicant and not necessarily by the owner of the assets relating to the financing of terrorism and relating to financial transactions suspended on the basis of a decision taken on the basis of a UN Security Council resolution on which they are or are subject to an arrest or access to them. The decision taken shall be directed to the owner of the asset." We deny this article. The main thing is that a court hearing is open. Dear colleagues, this is about the issue of the fight against terrorism. And there is the United Nations Resolution. And so this amendment, yes. We turned her down, but put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u120	Thank you. Karmazin's 2nd amendment is voting, please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u121	The committee does not support this. [[17:32:10]] For-7. Not supported. Third.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u122	3rd Amendment. In the Anti-Terrorism Act, Yuri Anatoliyevich proposes an article that is proposed by the subject of the legislative initiative 1-11 to exclude, as provided for in article 17 of the Law on Prevention of Legalization of Money Laundering. If these two articles were to be published, they were different, so the committee rejected the offer made by Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u123	The 3rd amendment is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:32:56]] For -8 Not supported. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u124	4th Amendment. Article 11 with the "2" badge, "Prim." Two. After the words "to cover basic and extraordinary expenses," he suggests that the words "they" be added. "from property requirements." Dear colleagues! These assets are not always related to assets that arise from property requirements related to terrorist financing. That is why the committee rejected this proposed editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u125	Yeah, the 4th amendment's on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:33:34]] For the four of us. Last one, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u126	Last update. Yuri Anatoliyovich proposes to replace the words throughout the text, delete the terms "freeze" to "block" and "terrorist assets" by "activities". Again, dear colleagues, we have ratified international conventions. The term "freeze" is used. If you take the literature, it's "freeze"-blocking can be spoken as synonymous words. But there is a requirement, an identical translation from English to English is used by the word ratified in our convention, this expression that I said is called "freeze." And it goes by name for "terrorist assets," you know, assets that go towards financing terrorism. Not just "activities." To avoid even violating human rights, so to speak, or others. And this amendment is also rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u127	The 5th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:34:41]] For -8 Yes, thank you, 8. So, dear colleagues, we took one of Karmazin's amendments into account. Taking into account the amendment and the text that is in our table. I propose that the committee adopt a second reading and, as a whole, the Act amending certain legislation on the arrest of assets related to the financing of terrorism and relating to financial transactions suspended in accordance with a decision taken on the basis of the UN Security Council Resolution and determining the order of access to such assets. Registration number 8224. Please vote. [[17:35:28]] For 274 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means. [[washing]] Registration number 8274. From the committee, Grigory Omelyanovich Omelchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u128	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, when I come to this bill, I want to thank Yuri Anatoliyevich for the suggestions made, because they were the subject of discussion. And, at the same time, especially to you, come to the meetings of the professional committees when you have your suggestions so that you can take a professional part in their discussion. Then, believe me, there are a lot of things that can be clarified at the committee meeting. This bill, which is currently being tabled, amending some legislation to prevent the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means, is closely intertwined with what has just been adopted. [[washing]] And what comes out of the requirements of the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Seizure of Proceeds obtained by Crime and the Financing of Terrorism. Dear colleagues, we've considered all the suggestions, the comments that have come to our profile committee. Some of them are completely accounted for, some in part, and some are rejected. And so I would ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to go straight to the amendments, and the decision of the committee was unanimously taken, taking into account the amendments that were adopted and which were rejected, to adopt the law as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention. Adam Ivanovich, let's go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u129	Yes, dear fellows, let's go to the repairs. Yes, Omelchenka, dismissed. He doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u130	I agree, yes, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u131	Yes, yes, Bondik is rejected. Don't insist. Carmazine, 9th, I'm sorry, 8th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u132	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I repeat that I would very much like us to be careful about such changes. What's more, it's about the Ukrainian Criminal Code, and a new article is being introduced called "Manipulation in the Fund Market." I would ask here the words "..or if they've caused severe consequences" to be replaced by the words "..or caused great material damage." Because we're talking about the great material damage that could still be here? Obviously, no one can die here and so forth. Clearly, this is a matter of great material damage. For otherwise you will not model or tell anyone; you will not explain to anyone: but what is the dire consequence? So I think that's the right offer. But why she didn't, I don't know. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u133	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u134	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u135	Yes, please, but briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, we have rejected this formulation. The committee also includes professionals such as Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin in the area of combating corruption and organized crime. In what way? The Criminal Code defines: "the damage is particularly great. I don't know if it's big or big." And the hard consequences that they have here will be different, because this has to do with it. The thing about terrorism. That is why this formulation is supported by the committee proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as the subject of the legislative initiative. And where we've turned it down. In the text of the compare table, they're dealing with these questions. Including not only Yuri Karmazin, but other Ukrainian national deputies. That's what our committee came up with.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u137	The 8th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u138	The committee did not support the proposal. [[17:39:49]] Z-11.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u139	Not supported. 9th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u140	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Since this is a serious article, I propose that the article be completed in part three. The actions foretold in part three of this article, if they have caused serious consequences, there, part two, if they have caused severe consequences, are punishable by imprisonment for a term of 3 to 7 years with confiscation of property and the deprivation of the right to hold office or to engage in some activity for up to 3 years. Why am I introducing an additional measure of punishment, Gregory Omelanovic, confiscation? You understand what I'm talking about here. About the confiscation. Because it's about serious, serious people manipulating the stock market and obviously causing significant harm to the state, they have to respond in this way and they have to be afraid of it. This is the preventive role of confiscation in this case. What's more, it's an extra measure, which, you know, is suggested that there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u141	Fellow dignitaries, again, have to do with the fragmented change proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Bill. If we do a simple analysis, we're dealing with these responsibilities under the Criminal Code, Yuri Anatoliovich, well, as an expert I'm addressing, well, it's tearing the whole system apart. And so we supported the proposal proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as the subject of the legislative initiative. But I'm asking you to put on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u142	Thank you, Gregory Omelyanovich. And let's do it this way. Now I'm going to put it, you're not going to argue anymore, because all of the proposals are the same argument. So please, the 9th vote is amended. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:41:53]] For the five of us. Not supported. Yes, 10 amendments, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u143	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested that we determine the amount of damage that is 1,000 times higher than the untaxed minimum. Then the hard consequences, what is it to write. In other amendments, which are still, Adam Ivanovich, so you don't have to have trouble with the Clean Quarter problem, the 10th, the 11th amendment, the 14th amendment. I remember them for the Dry One so that I could understand and cleanse myself. The 18th amendment, the 19th, everything you're dropping. Thank you, Minister of Justice, thank you all. Don't vote, don't waste your time. Do not pretend that someone is working with legislation. I'm taking down the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u144	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Well, first of all, let's do it this way. No one denies what really is. He actively participates and always makes adjustments with knowledge of the matter. We thank him for saving time. And I promise to repay him. Which one of the deputies? Voropayev, please. Voropeyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u145	Thank you so much for correcting the table. I would like to draw attention to Amendment 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u146	What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u147	13, 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u148	13th Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u149	That's my amendment. The point is, what's the difference between what I'm proposing and what's in the table. I have proposed in the very nature of the crime, in the very article of the Criminal Code, what is manipulation in the stock market. Which is illegal. If we don't do it here, we're going to be held hostage by some government official here to determine what illegal acts are. And then there's a circle of people who could be held accountable, and it's expanding. That's the first one. And the second. I always thought it was better to plant it, not to plant it, than to plant an innocent person. That's my deep conviction. So you have to, I'll suggest the next option, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u150	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u151	One of two, please. Or I agree that we do not take this right fully into account. But then in another revision, which goes on to define what the manipulation of the stock market is, delete the phrase that the definition would be made by the Gocomisisia itself on securities. The original proposal, nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u152	Right. Gregory Omelyanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u153	To thank our colleague, who one came to our committee meeting, and we discussed these suggestions and found concerted action. This is about amending the Criminal Code. Dear colleagues, if we stand up to make some sort of comprehensive list of manipulations, believe me, we'll get stuck. There are signs of manipulation and the investigator gives a legal assessment, a prosecutor, and a court. And so we rejected this proposal, we agreed, we agreed on how it was proposed in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as the subject of the legislative initiative. Dear colleague, I, absolutely like you, stand on the principle that it is better for the one who has committed the wrong to walk on the freeway, than, do not prove to God, at least one innocent person has fallen into the place where the will has been taken. But we did support the proposal, in this paper, of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u154	Yes, please. If I understand correctly, my colleague Voropeyev agrees that his 13th amendment should not be taken into account, provided that what is to be taken into account is taken into account. Please tell me about the transcript. It's a pipe microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u155	Provided that in article 10 prime. take away the first sentence, which allows the Gocomisisia to decide for itself where manipulation is and where there is no manipulation, and all. It's getting my edit, now I'm going to say her number, one second. Either take into account this amendment, or number 21.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u156	But I have a question: Someone has to define it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u157	The law, in article 10, reads: We define what such manipulation is in the stock market.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u158	Who then determines by law?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u159	The next prosecutor and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u160	Investigator, prosecutor and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u161	So the committee agrees with this proposal, Gregory Omelanovic?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u162	No, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u163	Then I make an offer. Then let's go the right way. Amendment 13a, which is partially counted, is voting. Don't insist. Then we will vote only on the amendment, under article 10, which begins: "The availability of signs of manipulation in the stock market is established by the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets as a result of the checks carried out in accordance with the established order." And then it goes, "The price manipulation in the stock market is there." But someone has to determine. [[What's that?]] All right, the Vote's proposal is for Vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:48:04]] For 263 Unfortunately, the first sentence is taken, but it is the will of the session hall, because no one will determine whether there is manipulation or no manipulation. I'm afraid there's gonna be a veto. But it's such a thing. What other suggestions? None. Then we'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u164	Adam Ivanovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u165	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u166	It's quite editorially accepted at a committee meeting: "employees" to replace the word "employees" with the word "employees" on "services."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u167	"Staff" on "service" in all the articles?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u168	Yes, in all the articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u169	In all the articles, "possessors" to "servicing persons." Okay. Don't you agree, no objections? Then, taking into account that the "employee" on the "service" and taking into account the amendment of Voropeyeva, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and the whole Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means. [[washing]] Please vote. [[17:49:23]] For 278 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u170	Adam Ivanovich, 20 seconds! I'm talking to government officials. The next time you bring into the session hall any international conventions that we ratify and make up, part of Ukraine's national legislation, and that need to be amended by the relevant laws of Ukraine, introduce legislation. Then we'll be wasting after ratifying those agreements, up to two or three months. This is what we should have done last year! And then, I'm sorry, it's stuck that in May, in the middle, there's going to be an International Conference on Money Laundering, and Ukraine's on the list, on the "cheese" list, and there's going to be a special question. And this law was to be passed on April 19th, and we asked the international organization to postpone a little. Please do these things. Thank you and all of you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the rulings. The draft decree marking the 75th anniversary of the Institute of History of Ukraine of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine is under consideration. [[Registration number 8412]] Dear colleagues, literally two words from the drafters. I think you've met him. This year is 75 years old, and we suggest that we mark it at the right level. To recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers take appropriate measures to ensure that the International Conference "The History of Ukraine at the Breakdown of the Ages" is held, to foresee the completion of the Encyclopaedia "The History of Ukraine", to develop a State Program for the Promotion of Historical Knowledge, and so on. So here, in my opinion, the drafters of the bill, and these are the leaders of the Supreme Council, have laid out what is envisaged in these cases. Please, one or two minutes from Kosovo Committee Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u172	It is as you said, Adam Ivanovich. Our urgent committee reviewed this project and fully supported it. We're just proposing a purely editorial way in the fifth part of the order to release the National Bank of Ukraine, as we're always saying, to offer the National Bank to do this, that's, that's, that's, because it's legally correct. So I also propose to take this whole draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u173	Thank you. So we're going to vote. I'm voting on the decision to mark the 75th anniversary of the Institute of History of Ukraine of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine with the proposal of a committee of profile to insert the word "proposal to the National Bank." [[Registration number 8412]] Please vote. [[17:52:45.]] For 278 Thank you. It's been decided. The question is: a draft decree on the creation of the National Museum of National Culture of Ukrainian Polissy. [[Registration number 8272]] Please, Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u174	Dear colleagues! We've been looking at this issue in connection with the 25th anniversary of the greatest technological catastrophe, the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, which has actually been the most affected by Polissa. So since 1989, a group of enthusiasts have taken on a mission to save the historical and ethnographic heritage of the Polish land. I'm going to name only figures that over 30 archaeology monuments were collected in 16-17 years, and the monuments of the 19th and 12th centuries were discovered. In general, some researchers call these treasures "Ukrainian Atlantis." There are over 40,000 exhibits, about 90,000 priceless photos and, of course, 4,000 hours of audio and video recordings. There's huge material. He's nodding.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u175	Finish it, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u176	It's the Ministry, it's some kind of department. So we would just do an invaluable thing for Ukraine's history if we took this decision, which I'm not going to count, but there's a lot. A number of very important measures are envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u177	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. I'm voting on the decree on the creation of the National Museum of National Culture of Ukrainian Polissy. [[Registration number 8272]] Moreover, we have already accepted similar recommendations on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings. Please vote. [[17:55:20]] For 288 Copy that. Thank you. The question is being considered. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Draft Decision marking 120th anniversary of the birth of the founders of the Zacarpathian school of painting Adalbert Mikhailovich Erdeli and Joseph Josephovich Boxhay, 8183. Yes, please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, a moment and a minute later.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u178	Dear colleagues, this decision is our response – groups of national deputies to the request of the public of culture, actors, artists of Carpathians, who have paid attention and this year honor the founders of the Carpathian school of painting Adalbert Mikhailovich Erdeli and Joseph Josephovich Bokshai. So historically, these two great classics, which established the Carpathian direction, are both 120 years old this year. I would like to say that to the MPs who represent the Carpathians: Alexander Kemenyash, Sergey Mosak – also co-authors, co-authors of the decision, because they are concerned with the problems of the region and Mr. Mikhailo Kosov joined in the work. I think it's a case where we have to say that in the cultural direction, Ukrainian unity is culturally diverse, because in the general direction of Ukrainian, these classics have offered a clear carpentry face in art, and they are known not only in Ukraine, but all over the world. And by the way, his students are also promoting Ukrainian Carpathianism today, and recently one of Mikita Volodymyr Vasilovich's students was doing 80 things. Therefore, it would be appropriate for us to honor the founders of the Zacarpathian school of painting Adelbert Mikhailovich Ardeli and Joseph Josephovich Boxhay. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u179	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, please microphone, Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u180	Before what Mikola Tomenko said, I'm just going to add that whoever saw these artists' paintings is not just the founders of the Zacarpathian painting school, it's in the world painting history that's incredibly talented of two artists, just incredibly talented. The story of the Zacarpathian land cannot be imagined without the linens left by these two great masters and patriots of their land. Each of them could have stayed anywhere, they had the opportunity to stay in the Czech Republic, Hungary and so on, but they gave their lives to the Zacarpathian region. And so, you know, it's not even that it's not going to cost much. But it will restore memory, for there will be exhibitions, for there will be catalogues, for there will be discussion, and there will be creative evenings. I ask you to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u181	I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the 120th anniversary Decision of the founders of the Zacarpathian school of painting by Adalbert Mikhailovich Erdeli and Joseph Joseph Josephovich Bakshay. [[Registration number 8183]] Please vote. [[17:59:17]] For 290 It's been decided. The draft decree marking the 70th anniversary of the guerrilla movement in Ukraine is under consideration. [[Registration number 8196]] Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich, please and Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u182	Dear National Deputies! On 30.10.2001, the President of Ukraine issued a decree on the Day of guerrilla glory, which was decided to celebrate annually September 22 – Party Day. This year, Ukraine will mark the 70th anniversary of the guerrilla movement in Ukraine. The fighting of guerrilla forces in the rear of the enemy began immediately after the invaders entered the Ukrainian land. Subversive groups began to operate throughout Ukraine, and on September 22, 1941, the legendary guerrilla commander Kovpak signed Order No. 1 under the Travelling Partisan Party. According to the Commission in the case of former guerrillas of the Great Homeland War 1941-9945, at the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the U.S.R.R. and the Party History Institute of the CC Company of Ukraine, a summary of the work on the further identification of participants in the national struggle in the occupied territory of Ukraine. The guerrilla formulations included more than 500,000 fighters and commanders.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u183	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u184	In view of this date, the People’s Deputies of Danilenko, Cibenko, Serbin, Sidelnik, Kamchatnym are introducing to you the draft Decree No. 8196 to fully honor the feat of guerrillas and underworlders. The 70th anniversary of the guerrilla movement in Ukraine will allow for the preservation and development of the famous traditions of the Ukrainian people, their unity and the promotion of the patriotic upbringing of Ukrainian citizens, especially the young generation. Please support this draft decree marking the 70th anniversary of the guerrilla movement in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u185	Thank you. From the committee of Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u186	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Adam Ivanovich, I would like to refer to the 15th article of the Constitution, which says, "No ideology can be declared binding by the State." This bill is drafted as an ideological document, not as a historical document. Wait. What do you think is possible, for example, the restoration or return of the names of the streets of the Hero of the Soviet Union of Kuznietsov, the Hero of the Soviet Union of Medvedev in Raven or us, in Lviv? Is that even possible?Oh, my God! Impossible. So this document is just as ideological as the return of names to educational institutions, as much more. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u187	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u188	It is not possible to accept the project in the way you offered it. Let us write from a purely historical point of view a document that will be required for all of Ukraine, not just for you. Then we could vote for him. And so I say, it's primarily against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u189	Yes. We'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u190	Sign up, sign up, sign up. Taran. After him, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u191	I was pushing against it, I don't know what's wrong with the system. I'd like to say that right now there's a lot of bills that the communists are offering. And it's already coming to, well, it's just funny, let's say. We have now passed a decision, Adam Ivanovich, on the Nuremberg Process, yes, on support. Today the whole press is laughing at us, because this draft decree is completely rewritten by Russian, completely. And when Russia offered to support, I wouldn't go into detail, one resolution, and the UN, and then it was still relevant, we voted after it was adopted. I mean, everyone says the Supreme Council doesn't know what it's doing. Next. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs objected. We were in favour of the Supreme Council, because we just copied it from Russian. And today everyone is talking about what the Supreme Council is doing is not what the state is doing. Or., so today we made a decree on the red flag, yes, everything was adopted by the post - Soviet countries two, even one — Russia and Transnistria, even Belarus did not accept it. So we make ourselves funny in front of people. Well, doesn't that make sense? Well, we don't want to, Adam Ivanovich, why should the Supreme Council make a mockery of this absolute plagiarism of Russia. Today we want to accept partisan glory and so on, well, why go around society? Some say the partisans were UPA, others say Kovpak. Let's accept that both of them are. Just as the Spaniards did, the French did when they joined the nation. Why don't we? And I'll explain why. Because today it's an attempt to distract them from the fact that the same war veterans, the same old communists, let's say they don't get normal pensions, they barely make ends meet today. And there's this impression that at this job that there is now either the government or the Supreme Council, they just want to put a red flag on these people's grave, on their coffin, excuse me. So you can't do that, or you can work for people, or you can do what we do, you can copy Russian old-fashioned bills, and we vote massively here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u192	Please, Matthew, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u193	Please give the word to the head of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u194	Zibank's microphone. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I wanted to welcome today's citizens of Ukraine, first of all, the veterans, to the fact that today's adopted amendments to the Winning of Victory Act in the Great Homeland War are in the part that relates to the official use of the Victory Flag. It's the right decision, the decision we've been making for a long time. Secondly, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Hall of the Supreme Council, all together and personally for this decision. You know, honourable colleagues, I'm surprised, bitter and ashamed to hear the statements of some of the patriotic woes that all over Ukraine today claim that the Great Homeland War is not our war, it's not our war, it's not Ukrainian war, it's not our victory. Dear colleagues! Shame! This is our war, this is the war of our parents and grandparents! This is the war of our country. And I want to say the next thing. If there were more than 6 million Ukrainians in the Soviet army who had been called volunteers before the war, if 2.5 million were rewarded for this war, four cities were named hero city, and then claim it wasn't our war! As far as this is concerned, respected colleagues. I want, first of all, on behalf of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization, to support the need for this decision. It is very temporary and must be made. This is the first time. Secondly, I would like to support this decision, on behalf of the Commission, in the matters of guerrillas and submarines of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is the structure of the Supreme Council, who asked for their support on behalf of the Supreme Council. And it is necessary to propose that representatives of the committee be included in the membership of the committee when the committee is established and that their opinion be taken into account. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u196	Yuri Carmazin. He's got Kamchatny, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u197	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! For me, like all Ukrainian citizens, it is extremely expensive to celebrate Victory Day, to celebrate veterans. But I see the task of power, the main thing, is not to distract society's power to hang and clone flags. I see a task in another. I see that those veterans, those at war, those at war today, those with disabilities live peacefully, live their lives peacefully, rejoice in Ukraine, rejoice in their children and grandchildren. So that they can see that someone is looking after them. How you care about your government, headed by the bloodsucker. We saw, we know. We know because there's project 7562. There are 17 categories, including war invalids, including war veterans, including all those who wore or wore pagons, including blackbacks, prior to 26 numbers, I'm telling you, you're all offering to lower, remove the billboard and remove the benefits. And that's not what you're talking about. What's the point? But you're replacing it with ideologies. Now, I want you to know that in the first reading of this bill, and you have to look at it in two readings, that's obviously, I'm going to vote in view of the fact that in Ukraine lives in Odessa, so that you know, Fedor Petrovich Kluev, this Federico-partisan, who was twice rewarded at 14 years of age for crossing the front line; his portrait hangs in the Trelyakow Gallery; he lives here, glory to God, alive, glory to God, healthy. But shut down from this project everything that carries ideologies: commosomals, tsk batches and so on, everything that's here in the explanatory note. Don't break up with Ukraine anyway. Stone, one minute, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u198	Dear colleagues! Stone Valery, Kharkishte, but was born on the Matter, right where the Kovpak movement began. And that's why I'm one of the co-authors of this bill. My aunt, Maria Sokolovska, fought with her husband in the guerrilla group of Kovpak. And that's why I think it's our sacred duty today to honor the memory of the guerrillas who fought for our country's independence and who are the true patriots of Ukraine, and without a party ticket they went to guerrilla troops because they were real patriots of Ukraine. And I fully support my colleague's thesis on the Parliamentary Hall of the Yulia Timoshenko Block on this. That we should be speaking today, and I've mentioned this a little bit earlier today, about reconciliation, about national reconciliation, about the fact that there were guerrillas, and on the other hand, it should be our main thesis today. And I call upon our hall to unite, to tolerate, to honor all the parties of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u199	Question completed. I'm voting on a motion for a decree to mark the 70th anniversary of the guerrilla movement in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8196]] Please vote. [[18:11:46]] For 257 Thank you. It's been decided. We're looking at the question: the draft decree marking the 200th anniversary of Eugene Grebinka's birth. [[Registration number 8226]] Moses. Right. Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u200	I'm very short. I think the name Eugene Grebinka, all present in this room, is from the school bench. Thus, in February 2012, it is 200 years from the date of its birth. So on our committee, we considered the project proposed by Kirilenko and Moses. And we think that this project needs to be supported in the first reading and in general in order to be able to create a Jubilee Committee, and that this Jubilee Committee should also develop what is proposed in our decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u201	Yuri Anatolyovich, don't do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u202	And a series of other actions. By the way, Eugene Grebinka's creativity is extremely wide, and his life and creativity have basically gone through.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u203	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u204	When we observe his Jubilee, we will be able to make it not only by our internal action but also by our international action, particularly by means of the intra - Slavonic one. So, please, back up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u205	Thank you. I'm voting on the decision to mark the 200th anniversary of Eugene Grebinka's birth. [[Registration number 8226]] Please vote. [[18:14:03]] For 282 It's been decided. The question is: the draft Decision marking the 200th anniversary of the birth of Markian Shaškević. [[Registration number 8322]] One minute. Mikhail Vasilovich Kosov. Vote? Okay. I'm voting on the decision to mark the 200th anniversary of Markian Shaškević's birth. [[Registration number 8322]] Please vote. [[18:14:49]] For 281 Thank you, copy. And, dear fellows, I very much ask you, let's make a decision to recommend parliamentary hearings on the subject of "land in Ukrainian fate." And that's where we end up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, who has the objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u206	I repeat, it'll take us 10 or 15 minutes. We won't be able to look at it. And this decision, it doesn't raise objections. So please, whoever has it. Who has a warning of determination? Cowchuck, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u207	One minute, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u208	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I was a member of the Parliamentary hearings and, practically, of the 28 speakers, including my distinguished colleague from the Party of the Regions, opposed the adoption of the law. against the adoption of the Law on the Market of the Earth. Only three are heads of the committee, deputy minister of agar politics, some other head of the hedge fund from Zitomirst spoke for. In addition, all of them spoke in favor of extending the moratorium to the earth. There is no word in the recommendations on continuing the moratorium on land trade and is also a second point in the recommendation in the operative part on the adoption of the Land Market Act. Then why did we take people from all over the country so that we wouldn't listen to what they said?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u209	Thank you, Vasil Petrovich. I fully support the person who presided over those hearings. I fully support what my colleague Kravczuk said. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u210	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The question is absolutely right now by Deputy Kravczuk. I also listened to these hearings from the beginning to the end, and there our people from the Association for Clean Agriculture and a Safe Environment participated, and there these people, who were all present at the hearings, were shouting: let's vote, they thought they could vote somehow. But they didn't have cards, they said, let's vote that we can't sell our land and give our territory away, actually, that's what this is about. That the price and purpose of any war is to capture the territory, today you give up the territory, you give up Sevastopol, you give up the territory. As a result, these recommendations do not match the performances of those who were in attendance, and therefore they must be completed, revered Adam Ivanovich. Therefore, they should not be accepted in general at this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u211	And I support you. Garbage, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u212	Dear National Deputies! I attended not only parliamentary hearings on the subject but also committee hearings with citizens. If you have looked closely at the text of the decree, clearly this text of the decree shows that the State alone has the right to redeem the land in reverse. Only through the State Bank, because of the creation of the Earth State Fund, we have no other way. If you don't support this decision, the market will go in and buy anyone. And by this determination, we say and recommend that the exclusive right is reserved only by the state. Please support and preserve the earth for our future generations. Because it's just recommendations, and it's in order to adopt laws, and then we're going to argue with you here for one norm, for one or the other. Please support this more important document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u213	Yes, representatives from every faction who wanted to speak said. I stress once again, my fellow Members of Parliament, the really entrances of the parliamentary hearings are the absolute majority of those who took part in the discussion against the purchase and sale of land, and that is true. You see the decision that a committee of profile has prepared, and I'm putting it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-21-m1.u214	I would like to vote on the adoption of the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation in its first reading on "The country in Ukrainian fate: the situation in the land sphere, the legislative provision of land relations and the practice of implementing it." The committee might say that we'll be selling tomorrow at all. I'll take the first reading of 8369. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:19:43]] For 214 Not accepted. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I am therefore asking the committee to continue working, based on what it was about at the parliamentary hearings and to return. But in view of what was said at the parliamentary hearings. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry for the tension in the session room, but we've been doing fine and well with you. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow we start work at 10 o'clock.
