ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:18]] The 382 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, today the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies: Kruk Yuri Borisovich, who was 70 years old, Sandler Dmitr Mihajlovich, only 50 years old, and King Oleg Anatoliyovich. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on June 1, 2011. Sixteen questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, three laws were passed, and nine bills were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the issues identified by the June 2, 2011, issue. The draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the List, Quantities and Objects of Knowledge of the Sixth Call Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is announced for consideration. [[on subjects known to individual committees]] Please, Sergei Sass, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u2	Thank you. Sergey Sas, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, until when. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you. Comrade Pisarenko, do not disturb the presiding officer. The bill was introduced on May 31st. The Committee on Rules and Deputy Ethics, which is central to the bill on matters of knowledge, has not considered the bill. There is no conclusion of the scientific and expert department regarding the bill. I'd like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as chairman of the meeting. On what basis is this bill now being considered in the session room? Why is the law being grossly violated? Please answer this question and stop violating the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an answer. Since the committee has not considered the draft decision, the question is put off. Well, please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u4	Given that the committee has not considered this bill, and there is no conclusion on the committees, we have asked it not to consider and move it today. That's why there's no question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u5	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for the consideration of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in part of the issuance of the person. [[Extraditions]] [[Registration number 7306]] [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik. Please. Vladimir Mikolaiovich! Yes, the distinguished national MPs. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement is prepared for consideration in the second reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine as part of the issuance of a person
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Yeah, Yuri Carmazin, 7th Amendment, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u8	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Amendment 7. I offer part of the first article. print as follows: "The grounds for pre-trial imprisonment shall be given in accordance with the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine, a reasoned decision of the court to elect as a precautionary measure of taking into custody or to apply a temporary or extradition arrest in the presence of a decision of the competent authority of a foreign State in cases provided for by law." How does this differ from that reaction? What's the story today? I'll tell you that, apart from a reasoned decision, I'm going to suggest that we write down "the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine." Because today we see that we are making things that are supposed to be motivated, not based on these decisions. That's why I'm proposing. I don't know, you have such a great experience, why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u9	The committee rejected this amendment because it is possible to start with a reasoned decision based on the Constitution, criminal procedure and so on. Predictably motivated, it's based on actual legislation. That's why she was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote Amendment No. 7 under the authority of Yuri Carmazin. [[10:08:44]] For-50 No correction supported. Amendment of the 10th Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u11	Yuri Carmazin. I sincerely thank the 50 MPs who are reading legislation that don't want vacchanalia. I propose that part three of article 12 should read: “The persons to whom a temporary or extradition arrest has been applied, the visit of relatives or other persons is granted to the administration of the place of prior imprisonment without written permission by the authority conducting extradition proceedings” – since the person for whom extradition is applied is not a criminal in the ordinary sense of criminal law and there is no point in restricting contact with society and, even more, leaving the right to communicate with his or her family, even if to protect its human rights. That's why I think that what's not indicated is also something that can be politically motivated. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u12	The committee rejected the amendment and believed that the proposed text was more effective in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u13	Vote number 8, Yuri Karmazin. [[10:10:24]] For-26 Correction not supported. Amendment 10, Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u14	Yuri Carmazin. The honourable national deputies, part of the fourth article of article 12, I propose that the following should be made: “Declarations of persons who have been sued by the judge's decision to take a precautionary action in the form of a warrant, or of a decision to extend periods of custody, or of the application of a temporary or extradition arrest, shall be sent to the administration of the place of pre-trial detention immediately after they have been brought.” The letter may come later, but it must be sent immediately. So I think these things have to be clearly regulated. Look at how many people are now sitting in detention cells in violation of the terms provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure! No institution reacts to this today unless only the Human Rights Commissioner responds. There is no reaction yet to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. This should be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u15	The committee rejected the amendment. She over-details this rule of law, including still blurs out certain things, for example, how a letter can come later, but it should be sent immediately and so forth. These are the estimated nature of the category.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u16	I'm betting on the 10th Jury Carmazin vote. [[10:12:13]] For-36 Correction not supported. Yes, it's Yuri Carmazin 16th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u17	Yuri Carmazin. I understand why Mr. Head had the closure, because it says 164th, 16th, actually. But it says 164. Delete the proposed part of the sixth article 20: Ten days before the deadline of the extradition arrest, the chief of the pretrial detention institution is obliged to send the district to the prosecutor, or his deputy, the date of the arrest. The end of my proposal that this should be removed. I'm Motivating now. Since there is no need to charge the chief of the pre - detention facility with extra work, the district attorney or his deputy should ensure that the date of completion of the maintenance is checked for himself. So the committee denies the excessive detail where it refers to compliance with legislation, or it introduces the kind of detail that we'll soon come to the Corporal, what the Corporal has to do, and we'll write it in the law. That's why I'm proposing to rule out this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u18	The committee recommends that it be rejected, since it believes that the proposed vote is more effective in the legislative context.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u19	I'm betting on the vote of 16th Yuri Karmazin. [[10:13:59]] For-35 Not supported Next amendment to the 19th, author of Wonderland. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yes, all other adjustments are included. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. There is no legal authority to comment on the bill. I am voting for a second reading proposal and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in part of the issuance of the extradition person, registration number 7306. Please vote. [[10:15:06]] For 312 The law is passed. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the violation of personal data protection legislation, registration number 7355. The rapporteur is Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u20	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the violation of personal data protection legislation was adopted at the first reading on 3 February this year. The committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice, has worked hard to prepare him for second reading, and today you are invited to draft a bill that we propose to adopt as a law. The bill is designed to bring Ukraine’s legislation into line with the provisions of the European Council Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automated Processing of Personal Data. In particular, the bill proposes to amend the Criminal Code, the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Procedure Code, the Information Act. In fact, 20 amendments to the Ukrainian National Deputies were made to the Bill in preparation for its second reading. Of these, 12 are fully accounted for, 8 are rejected. During the preparation, I repeat, the law on second reading was actively involved in its preparation by the Ministry of Justice, the text of the law being drafted by the General Legal Authority without notice. So the committee invites you to accept it as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! Amendment number 3. Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone, please. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u22	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u23	No, it's not. 4th Amendment. Yuri Carmazin, insists, is a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I wanted to change my approach, and they've changed, almost everything I've proposed in two of my amendments, I've only given them two -- that's the fourth amendment, and that's the 12th amendment. They are included, one proposed by the Swedish national deputy in the second amendment, and one proposed by the tenth. Because of this, it was more correct to write what was counted by content rather than by rejecting it. Because the content I suggested was identical to that, but not completely, so given that I want to hear my colleague's opinion and not insist on voting because I think we're doing a joint thing and we actually did it, but we just formed a thought in the committee. I'd like to hear your colleague Moses' opinion, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u25	Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. I wanted to say to your two revisions to the fourth and the 12th, that they are really textual and meaningfully included in other amendments by Swedish colleague Viktor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u26	The 6th amendment, the author does not insist on it. Mikola Shershun, 11th Amendment. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin. You don't insist on the 12th, it's counted. They don't insist. Sherschun doesn't insist. 17th Amendment. Are you insisting? Yuri Anatolyovich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u27	Yuri Carmazin. As for the 17th amendment, I'd like to be heard, article 23 of the Ukrainian Information Act, and I suggest it be presented in a different edition. The information about a person is information or information about a person who has been identified or can be specifically identified and can be used to cause damage to the subject or in relation to that and the third party. A comprehensive list of personal information about a protected person is: racial origin, political, religious, or secular beliefs, membership in political parties and professional associations, and data relating to health or sex, credit card numbers. information for access to electronic payment accounts, passport number and series, identification code, driver's license number, technical car passport number, residence address, home phone number. They don't consider personal data protected by the law, data about domain owners and web sites posted on the Internet system. Every person has.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u28	Volodymyr Romanovich, please, your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u29	Yuri Anatoliyovich suggests that we extend the information available on the person who is considered to be information about the person, the committee agreed with the text. The information about a person is information or a collection of information about a person who is identified or can be specifically identified. So in those words, Yuri Anatoliyovich, there's an answer to your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u30	It's the vote of the 17th amendment. The author is Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. [[10:21:22]] For 20 Correction not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, all the amendments have been voted. The committee proposes to accept the project as a law. There is no central legal administration of the bill's observations. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the violation of personal data protection legislation. [[Registration number 7355]] Please vote. [[10:22:09]] For 263 The law is passed. Thank you. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on the training of professionals]] Yes, it will be reported that the honourable colleagues of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement for Malishev Vladimir Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u31	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Your attention is requested on second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 18 of the Police Act. This bill, drafted by the Ministry of the Interior, provides for the training of professionals from higher education institutions to the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of a contract that will be concluded between the educational institution and the person wishing to study in that institution. In the event of early termination of the contract, but there are many reasons: for negative reasons, whether he does not want to work or is not disciplined, if he does not start work after the end of three years, he will make reparation through the courts. We have used the experience of Germany and other European countries in developing. But I would like to remind you again why this law is needed. Think about it. In the last two years alone, 14,000 specialists have been trained by the State. Half of them turned out to be a citizen. By the way, just so you know, one student's average annual cost is 20,000 bracelets. I believe that for our poor country, it is a great luxury to spend that kind of money while also containing 12 MOUs. I believe that this is my firm belief and practice, and theorists, that there will be enough for our country to have four higher education institutions in the Ministry and one academy. And I appeal to Mr. Mogilev, Minister of the Interior, to support this position. Eight proposals were made in the drafting of the bill. They're all accounted for. The purpose of the bill does not change, but rather improves it. I ask that this bill be supported in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u32	Thank you! Yes, Amendment 7 of Yuri Carmazin is rejected. Yuri Anatolyovich, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u33	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the fact that we really need to reorganize in the Militia VUZ, but we need to do a teaching work through dissertation. That's where the bulk of the cost is, that's where it's hiding, and I've analyzed it. But what should we do with you, if the Constitution, article 53 states, "The right of every citizen to free education." Article 143 guarantees everyone the right to work that is freely chosen. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its decisions and in another case, clarified that the freeness of education as a constitutional guarantee of the realization of the right to education means the possibility of obtaining education in public and municipal educational institutions without payment in any form for educational services defined by the legislation of the level of content and within those types of education, the freeness of which is provided for in article 53 of the Constitution. [[No. 5 of the 2004 IP]] [[1.13 2002]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u34	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u35	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, this is ordinary populism on your part as always. This applies only to the educational institutions of the Ministry of the Interior and I said what reason. And the committee fully supported, and there are also very experienced and literate lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u36	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 7 of Yuri Carmazin. [[10:26:42]] For -14 Correction not supported. I don't think we should be worried about this, because we're going to have so few graduates soon that we don't even have enough to fill the higher education institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of a committee on acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on the training of professionals]] [[Registration number 8210]] There is no central legal administration of the bill's observations. Please vote. [[10:27:32]] For 270. The law is passed. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the protection of the rights of the suspect, the accused, the defendant]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Vladimir Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u37	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine. Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished fellow members of the National Deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, prepared in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. [[on the protection of the rights of the suspect, the accused, the defendant]] I would like to remind you that the bill is complemented by article 44 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code with new provisions that will allow the defence attorney to be admitted as soon as he has issued the documents that confirm his authorization, but at any rate not later than 24 hours from the time of the complainant's application for his permission to participate in the case. It is also anticipated that no action or other procedural action involving a suspect, accused, defendant shall be carried out prior to the decision to admit the defendant to the case. The bill also proposes to amend article 106 of the Ukrainian KPC, assuming that a complaint of detention had come before the court before the court about the fact that the authority had been informed of the choice of a precautionary measure, she was being considered by the judge for submission. The bill received 27 amendments from legal entities. 20 of them counted, 7 turned down. The committee therefore proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. I'll add it to the finish line. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u38	Yeah, 3rd Amendment. Yuri Carmazin, are you insisting on her? It is considered by other suggestions. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin. It's the third amendment that doesn't count, unfortunately. And I have to explain it, and I think Vladimir Moses will understand me, and the hall will understand me. In the new part of the sixth, I propose to delete the words "but in any case not later than 24 hours from the time of the complainant's application of his admission to the case," the end of the quote continues beyond the text. Why? Because it's about allowing a protector. And I suggest you look at article 63 of the Constitution, which has the norm of direct action. I don't understand why the legal department doesn't have any notes. Now look. The norm of direct action 63 gives the suspect, the accused, the defendant the right to defend himself immediately. The word "immediately" and 24 hours is two big differences. This, otherwise, and under other circumstances, may be, but the right must be guaranteed immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u40	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, dear colleagues! Indeed, the Constitution refers to the immediate admission of a defender. But these rules regulate the authority of the defender himself. Since he has given the document here that he has authority, he is immediately allowed to take part in the matter. But if he came later and declared his participation in the case, no later than 24 hours he has the right to participate. Here's what we wrote in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u41	There's an amendment to the 3rd vote. The author is Yuri Karmazin. [[10:32:09]] For-30 Correction not supported. Amendment 5th Yuri Carmazin, Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u42	Yuri Carmazin. Unfortunately, what we didn't take into account was a big mistake. Because we don't allow the direct standard of the Constitution to be implemented by 63, the honourable national MPs who have already given us the right. And now the Criminal Procedure Code is going to get into conflict. I believe that only if circumstances prevent the immediate admission of the defence attorney are present do I stress that, on the basis of a statement made by the suspect, the accused, the defendant, the person conducting the inquiry, the investigating prosecutor, the judge shall rule on the transfer of the period of admission of the defence counsel, but no later than 24 hours from the time of the complainant's application for his permission to participate in the case. That's exactly where something gets in the way, and I'm not going to count the circumstances right now, but, in principle, the tolerance has to be implemented immediately. That's the kind of offer I'm making. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u43	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, you have seen the contradiction between the previous amendment and the present one. Before that, you're denying the possibility of deferral, and you're using the word "immediately." Here, by order of the investigating judge, he may be suspended for substantial reasons. I mean, the committee didn't agree with the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u44	It's the 5th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[10:33:58]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. Amendment 10, author Tolstenko. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 15th, Tolstenko. No, it's not. Yes, Tolstenko, 25 revisions. No, it's not. All other amendments are included. Dear colleagues! The Committee proposes to adopt the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code in the second reading and generally as a law. [[on the protection of the rights of the suspect, the accused, the defendant]] Registration number 6654. There is no chief legal authority to comment on the bill. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:35:05]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! We can't point at the others again. All offers are included. There is no objection to the principal legal administration of the bill. Huh? What, what? Oh, yours isn't counted. I'm voting for the second reading of the bill, please vote. [[Registration number 6654]] To the others again. [[10:35:47]] For-81 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we should now consider a bill amending article 48 of the Ukrainian Mining Code. [[on social guarantees for mining workers]] At the same time, there is a request to postpone consideration of the bill in view of the need for further consultations with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Is there no objection? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to consider a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Law on Free System in the Field of Economic Activities. At the same time, the Chief Legal Authority stresses that the text of the bill does not meet the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. I ask the committee to abide by the Rules. The bill is postponed. And bring it in line with the Supreme Council Rules. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to regulate the relationship in the field of television and telecommunications. [[Registration number 6527]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Your point is to consider, in second reading, Bill No. 6527 on amending certain legislative acts on the settlement of the relationship between television and telecommunications. The purpose of the bill is to amend the Ukrainian Laws on Telecommunications and on Television and Radio Broadcasting, which allow the operator, the television provider, to provide its subscribers with access to television programs that carry out live or satellite speech on the territory of the television network, according to a license issued by the National Council. It also improves, in accordance with the requirements of time and satellite television, the definition of "universal programming services". In fact, this bill is designed to protect small and so - called niche and regional domestic channels that produce their products and are not able to be presented on television screens. We propose that the providers be legally obliged to include the country’s regional channels. Today, there is such a situation that the providers decide which channels the viewers will see that they do not. Time is coming, the world is moving on to new technologies, and most Ukrainian providers are not only not ready to switch to digital technologies by 2015, nor are they even modernizing their technology and capabilities that were built in Soviet times. Small regional channels are paid to get on the air, and packets are complemented by foreign power channels purchased by providers at the expense of small, small local radio organizations. There are, of course, those who believe that this bill violates the Convention on Transboundary Television ratified by Ukraine. Here I can say that the convention directly says that each country itself determines how it will protect its information space. The producer of the national information product is the one that creates our national information space. We understand that the bill is ambiguous, it touches the provider's interests, but we postponed it until July 1, 2012. But since I haven't succeeded yet, and we've all failed the team to prove to everyone the need to adopt this bill, I ask that we postpone the second hearing of this bill to the next session of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's proposal to postpone consideration. But here's the situation, let's see. The Committee's conclusion is to accept it in second reading and in general. The Chief Legal Authority has determined that the bill requires substantial further development and re-reading. Now, given the final offer, let's make the decision again, and that's the right thing to do. With the vote, please pay attention to the offer. We're not looking at it, we're voting on it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u47	No, we're not looking, we're sending him back for second reading, we're going back to the committee. Yuri Anatolyovich, please, the microphone of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin. I want to thank Vladimir Ivanovich Landik very much, he's actually looking. Only when you enter the following year from July will the cleaning be done. Don't you know that these days, with the help of the National Council for Television and Radio and the Oligarchs who own the channels, these channels are now being cleared. They'll be cleaned by January 1st, and you want to introduce the law by July 1st 2012, the entire space will be cleared. It should be accepted in the second reading and then entered immediately, because of what they will clean, they will collect for a penny. Such proposals now to the owners of the channels will be the same as what is being done with the Radio Melody. Although it's a radio channel, it's also given to someone who doesn't know who. For this reason, Vladimir Ivanovich, thank you. You're doing the right thing, but convince your faction that this must be done immediately, for democracy in Ukraine it is necessary, not for anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u49	Well, please, Landik, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u50	Thank you, colleagues of Carmazin, for your support. But let us join you in persuading the entire Supreme Council, not only of our faction, but also of our understanding. Because, you know, the same providers are sitting here, and everybody wants their own, but nobody wants their own. So let's all go together, and we're going to bring this bill to a logical conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to return to the second reading of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts concerning the regulation of relations in the field of television and telecommunications. [[Registration number 6527]] Please vote. [[10:43:33]] For 275 Decision taken. Microphone, Royal, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I would like to return to the consideration of Bill 7062. Since we cannot go without 116 articles of the Rules for the preparation of a quality document, since other laws have been enacted since the consideration of the bill on first reading and second reading, the Committee proposes that the bill be withdrawn. We will take into account all those proposals, and we have received 123 amendments to the bill before second reading and submit it for the first reading in the final version next week. Then we'll do without 116 and don't waste too much time in the hall. Therefore, I ask that the bill be withdrawn from consideration and that on the first reading next week the bill be drafted so that we can adopt it before the end of the current session. Because it is a technical law that harmonizes the parallel rules in order to effectively earn legislation on the permit system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u53	Dear National Deputies! The offer is understood. The drafter of the bill and the committee propose to withdraw the bill. Simple. Is there no objection? So I'm going to put to the vote a motion to reject the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act "On Free System in the Field of Economic Activity". Please vote. [[10:45:32]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending articles 19 and 43 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act. [[on fines]] [[Registration number 6134]] It's a second reading again. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelov. Please, Svetlana Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u54	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! On January 11, 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a bill on amendments to articles 19 and 43 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Konovaluk, Derkac, Kravchenk. By decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Social Policy and Work was entrusted with the task of finalizing the draft bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions made by legal entities and submitting it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading. On April 21, in a second reading of the bill in the Supreme Council Hall, he did not gain the necessary number of votes in his support and was sent to read again. As you recall, the bill is aimed at strengthening administrative responsibility for violating labour law and bringing its standards into line with the current legislation of Ukraine. Thus, 37 proposals from Ukrainian national deputies were made to the committee in the second reading, most of which are taken into account. Others were rejected for a number of reasons. In a second reading of the bill, the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a number of observations and, in a general conclusion, noted that the bill could be adopted in a second reading, provided that the comments were taken into account. The committee's second reading came up with two proposals: one from Carmazin and one from mine. These proposals are made taking into account the comments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority. Both accounted for. As a result of the consideration of the draft, the committee decided to agree to the text of the comparative table and to adopt the bill on second reading and in general. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice and noted that the bill could be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u55	Dear people's deputies, let's do it as we speak. Amendment of People's Deputy Korja, number one. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Zvegilski, second amendment. No, it's not. Konovaluk? No, it's not. All other amendments to all other deputies are included. Yes, respected colleagues, including the comments of the Chief Legal Authority during the review of the second reading. Yes, I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Act amending articles 19 and 43 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act, registration number 6134. [[on fines]] Please vote. [[10:49:25]] For 290 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear People's Deputies, announcing the draft law, I'm sorry, draft decree on the National Military Memorial Cemetery. [[Registration number 8052]] The rapporteur is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee subcommittee, Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 18 March 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on National Security and Defence has been further developed into a second reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions made by the subject of the legislative initiative, a draft of this decision, submitted by the national deputy Kolesnichenko. [[No. 3169]] The draft decree is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the national level to decide on the establishment of a National Military Memorial Cemetery for the veneration and burial of war veterans, war veterans, military officials who have performed heroic acts in the name of the Ukrainian people and have special merit before the country. The drafters encourage the drafting and adoption of the bill by the following factors: for the time being, in Ukraine as a whole and the city of Kiev, especially the burial of war veterans and participants in hostilities, there is a systematic and illegal violation of legislation, as evidenced by numerous complaints from families of war veterans and military service participants. The size of bribes is fantastic, and that's what we have. In the common cemeteries of Kiev, burial sites are catastrophically lacking, the care of the graves of veterans and war criminals is not properly provided, there are cases of looting and abuse. It should be noted that the decree number 5044 from 05.08. By 09, all necessary parliamentary procedures were under way, and the National Security and Defence Committee had reached a satisfactory conclusion. National deputies, committee members support the draft decision and recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u57	Honorable National MPs, as amended. Vladimir Karpuk, 1st repair, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u58	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". I propose in the draft the word "Great Fatherland War of 1941-45" to replace it with the words "World War II." This is the terminology that developed in world history and for the Ukrainians, the war began on September 1, 1939, as World War I. 200,000 Ukrainians met this war in the ranks of the Polish Army. And this is really a term that needs to be supported. I'll ask you to vote. And in general, I pay attention to the conclusion of scientific expertise that this law does not correspond to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u59	Yeah, right now. The following changes are all taken into account. Dear colleagues, all the following amendments are included. I'll put it to a vote, even though the logic was in the hands of my colleague Karpuk. Because World War II, it includes as a key component of the Great Motherland, and so we would expand the circle of people who participated in hostilities in 1939, they have the right to be buried in military memorial tombs, and the logic is absolutely there. But since the Supreme Council did not support this proposal, I am putting the draft ruling to the vote, to adopt it as a decision in accordance with the committee's recommendations. At the same time, I stress that the Chief Legal Authority believes that the draft ruling is subject to rejection as being contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. I'm betting on a draft decree on the National Military Memorial Cemetery for adoption as a decree with registration number 8052, please identify yourself. [[10:54:35]] For 227 I'll take the order. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Lawyers, I mean the General Legal Office, are proposing to consider a draft of the Free Legal Aid Act a little later. They're polishing the last positions there. Do you mind? Thank you. We'll look at it a little bit later. Is there any objection that we should postpone for a while? Dear colleagues! I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on targeted bonds. Registration number 7331, the reporter is the head of the Committee's subcommittee on finance, banking, tax and customs policy, Prasolov Igor Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u60	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The bill before you was considered on first reading and adopted on 19 April this year. The project is proposed to improve the system of control over the placement, turnover and repayment of targeted bonds, particularly those for which the transfer of housing facilities takes place. In fact, the bill fills a certain legislative gap in the settlement of the issue of emissions and the treatment of targeted bonds. For example, a new special article 8.1 of the Securities and Stock Market Act is being introduced to improve the legislative level of targeted bonds and the target bond market. Now, in particular, with regard to the second reading. A total of 41 amendments to the second reading were received from members of the people. Of them, 35 are accounted for. One is taken into account in essence, one in part, two in editorial terms. All others, 31, fully accounted for. We had to reject the six amendments of respectable colleagues. The variance argument is given in the table you have. A number of comments from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office were also taken into account. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee, I propose to endorse the decision of our committee and to support the bill on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u61	Let's go to the amendments, dear fellows. Corrections are included. The 18th Yuri Carmazin Amendment rejected. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u62	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Igor Mikolaiovich, for taking the amendments very seriously, some of them you've taken into account, but here we have to decide in principle. I'm talking to all the national MPs, it's not a political issue. In the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act, in article 7, I propose that you leave part two in its original form, namely: "the bonds are placed in documentary form or without documentary form", the end of the quote. I think it's appropriate to keep a documentary form of bond placement when they are registered by the issuer himself. In this regard, too, we should not exclude part eight from this article. The point is that the project now only offers undocumented form. What about the documentary? So I say, let's leave it, we don't hurt it, we'll make the citizens sure they have it. And because.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u64	I must say that the reform of the securities market in our country is carried out in such a way that all handling, taking into account securities is translated into undocumented form. That is why we rejected this amendment. And those bonds that were previously issued in documentary form, they are, in a harsh way, not cancelled by anyone, they have both turned and they will turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u65	It's the 18th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[10:59:42]] For-19 Correction not supported. Stanislaw Arjewitin, 11th Amendment. Let's go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u66	Your Honor, in the 11th Amendment, it is suggested that very high penalties be imposed on operators. And that's not exactly the kind of violation that 17,000 dollars or 85,000 dollars are going to have to be paid for. The word "non-fulfillment" is, you know, a very broad interpretation. You could put a dot wrong, and you could pay 85,000 for it. That's why my proposal was: in view of the fact that these severe sanctions are not signed, 85,000 operators will be paid for, for which 17. I suggested lowering the board of thousands of untaxed minimums, or 17,000, to 500 by half. At the same time, the governing commission will write down what subjects will now pay up to 85,000 bracelets for emissions violations, even for formal signs. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u67	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! So the second direction of reforming the securities market in our country is to protect the rights of investors. The amendment refers to a paragraph that refers to the non-compliance with the conditions of the prospectus for the issuance of securities. The tightening is done if any company announces the issue of bonds, so that it is willing to adhere to the terms of the issue and fulfil its obligations to the owners of those securities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u69	It's the 11th Stannislav Arjevetin vote. [[11:01:44]] For-16 The amendment is not accepted. Yes, 22nd Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u70	Yuri Carmazin. Dear People's Deputies, I am addressing you, this is for our electorate. I propose to leave part eight in the current edition, namely: "The bond certificate contains the name of the type of securities, the designation and location of the issuer, the international identification number of the securities, the nominal bond value, the total amount of issuance, the maturity, the size and time of payment of interest for the bond, the date of the decision to place the bonds, the series and the bond certificate number, the signature of the issuer manager or another authorized person certified by the issuer. Additional bonds may be established by the State Securities and Stock Market Commission. The name of the owner must be indicated in the name bond certificate. A coupon is added to the percentage bond certificate on the forerunner. The coupon contains a series and a certificate number that pays interest, names and locations of the issuer, and a percentage payment period. There's his order number on each coupon." I think that'll guarantee it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u71	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, Comrade Carmazin has confused something, because there is nothing new about him that he does not add, but says that he should leave the law to the rule that was before the bill was introduced. Since the transfer of bonds from the documentary form to the non-documentary form is not necessary, it is therefore no longer necessary to describe what a certificate is and what props it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u73	It's the 22nd Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[11:03:54]] For-23 No correction supported. Yes, the next amendment of 24th Stanislav Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u74	I agree. I agree with the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u75	Do you agree? Thank you. Yes, 34th, Arjevitin, don't you agree?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u76	Yes, I agree with the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u77	Yes. Then that's it. What's that? 39th, my dear, I'm sorry, it's rejected by you. Stanislaw Arjewitin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry you didn't support my previous amendment. And now we've left the officer's right to determine for any formal violation of the prospectus of 17 to 80,000 dollars. The official of the operators will now determine how much the fine will be taken. You know what it could be about now, let's talk about. With regard to Amendment 39, which states that bonds that exist and rotate, and according to the time limit provided for in their prospectus, they are reported to exist and rotate. I suggest you throw them out. It's illiterate. What are the prospects for the show, not theirs? It's just funny in the text in the Supreme Council to leave such unnecessary and unnecessary words behind. That's why I'm asking you to delete them. Because others, such as the prospectuses of emissions, do not exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u79	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u80	In order to make the law very clear. Including the Securities Commissions, it is the word “their” specifically here that is written not to refer to any other bonds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u81	Yes. Amendment 39 of Stanislav Arjevetina is put to the vote. [[11:06:05]] For-16 The decision is not made with respect to this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the draft law as a whole in the second reading. The Chief Legal Authority has no comment on the bill. So I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on targeted bonds. [[Registration number 7331]] Please vote. [[11:06:49]] For 247 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning regulation of financial services markets. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill proposed by you is intended to provide the authorities that regulate the financial services markets, additional powers to strengthen control in these markets, and to increase transparency and openness in these markets by introducing more information to be disclosed to non-bank financial services market participants. The second read was followed by 45 amendments to the national deputies of Ukraine and to the National Bank of Ukraine. Of these, the vast number of amendments taken into account by the Committee, 28 of which are taken into account, 22 of which are taken into account entirely, 6 taken into account in substance and editorially, 15 amendments had to be rejected by the Committee. It should be noted that the changes to the second reading did not change the substance of the bill but merely clarified and corrected its individual positions. Also during the drafting of the bill, amendments were made to the second reading, aimed at aligning it with the recently adopted money in financial legislation, in particular the Act on Surveillance on a Consolidated Basis, which we adopted last week. The committee thus approved the decision to adopt Bill 7511 on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, we have now found out from the Legal Authority that the draft Law is contrary to the requirements of article 116 of the Rules. So I'm asking the committee, along with the Chief Legal Authority, to finalize this bill, then we'll go back to it. Is there no objection? Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Because we can't break the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u84	Maybe we'll just count these immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u85	No, come on, look at the Law Department. When you are ready, you will tell us which articles we vote against, and then we will accept them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u86	And we'll be back. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u87	Next draft of the Amendment Act to Article 2 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Prior Action to Prevent the Negative Consequences of the Financial Crisis and to Amend Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine". [[on the redemption of bonds]] [[Registration number 8439]] The reporter is Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u88	Thank you. We adopted this bill in the first reading last week and decided on an accelerated procedure for committee and parliament. [[8439]] Therefore, the committee is ready to consider the second reading of the draft law. The second read came with three amendments: two from the National Deputy Arjevetin, one from Karmazin. They're all rejected. And actually a recommendation: to accept in the second reading the text that was first adopted by us as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u89	Let's do some repairs. Stanislaw Arjewitin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, if you care about bank investors, you should not support this bill today. This is about allowing this law to form the statutory capital of the Ukrainian banks at the expense of nonliving money, at the expense of securities that can rotate for five years or more. So the banking institution is a financial institution that needs living immediate funds to save the situation. And putting securities in exchange for living money with many years of rotation, I don't think that's helping bank investors. It's the other way around. So I ask you very much, either support my amendment, or send this bill for a second reading. Because the formation of statutory capital is not money, it is a wrong step. We have no right to do that. If the state buys at the expense of securities, not living money, we'll only make things worse and not protect the investors, but we'll do them a service. I am very much asking or supporting my offer, which is only at the expense of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u91	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u92	These proposals were considered. And the common position of the committee, the National Bank and the Cabinet of Ministers remains unchanged. Thus, the committee rejected Arjewitín’s offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u93	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 1 of Stanislav Arjevitina. Please identify yourself. [[11:12:09]] For-25 Correction not supported. 2nd Amendment. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin, distinguished national MPs! You can print anything the government gives you. But I think the President has already realized that all that the government is offering is from the wicked one. And that's why he started assigning officials, and he's doing the right thing. We need to get through and change the team. Because of this, Vitaly Yuriovich, I would like to ask you to hear the opposition's proposals. You're a smart man, growing up. I'm going to suggest in the first sentence of the next line. “These government bonds can,” I stress, may be “bought by the National Bank at nominal cost”. End of quote. I'll give you a reason. The decline in the negative impact of the global crisis on Ukraine’s economy is still relevant today. However, the status of the National Bank makes the formulation of the obligation to redeem bonds in fixed terms invalid. At the same time, the economy is not fully normalized. The current practice of repurchasing bonds in some way contributes to the formation or increase of statutory capital of banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u95	Yes, please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u96	The committee rejected the offer of a national deputy named Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u97	I'll bet the vote on Yuri Carmazin's 2nd amendment. [[11:13:47]] For-25 We didn't. 3rd Amendment, Stanislaw Arzhevtin, author, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u98	Dear National Deputies! When I argued that only money and no surrogate should be contributed to statutory capital, the answer was one: The International Monetary Fund wants to do so. I don't think that's an argument. And please tell us, in accordance with the Ukrainian Constitution, that all business subjects and the state involved should be equal. Why is it possible for a State to have securities, such as unrealistic money, and for other subjects to need only money? In addition, in all lands statutory capitals are formed by money, not by chairs, computers, securities, and other substitutes for money. It's a classic banking formula. Contributors need real living resources in statutory capital to correct the situation. All other securities, with years of rotation, are not the right thing to do. Imagine the state raid if anyone wants to do it. So please send this bill back to read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u99	Thank you. Stanislav Mikhailovich, well, you're basically talking about different things. It's about government securities, government domestic loans. So these papers are primarily provided by State guarantees. So why are you twisting all this stuff? This is a perfectly clear and timely law. We are now, we have discussed all these things in the first reading and in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u100	I don't know what I'm talking about. I'll put your amendment to the vote now. Arzhevtina's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u101	I wanted to remind you once again when two years ago we adopted the rules that the statutory capital of the Ukrainian banks, where there is a problem of saving the issue with deposits, we allowed the government's securities to be excluded from the crisis into statutory capital with the simultaneous redemption of the National Bank in a five-day period. That is, securities become real money in five days. We've introduced this rule for an anti-crisis period. Now we're removing these standards. If we're removing the National Bank as the guarantor of the ransom, we have to remove the securities, which is to do the same thing that we did for three years in reverse. And we removed the National Bank from here, and we left the government's securities. Why Are We Not Coherent? So I say, let's do what we did three years ago, we're going to do the right thing, and we're going to delete the securities, the securities, the securities, and we're going to remove the responsibility of the National Bank. You "a" did, and "b" didn't. I'm not twisting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u102	I'm betting on the vote on the amendment of the 3rd Stanislav Arjevetin. [[11:17:10]] For-30 No correction supported. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill of law. There is no chief legal authority to comment on the bill. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act "On first-hand measures to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis and to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine". [[on the redemption of bonds]] [[Registration number 8439]] Please vote. [[11:18:04]] For 252 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce to you the draft Law on Security and Public Order in the course of mass sports and physical health. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vasil Mikolayovich Gritsak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u103	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The committee reviewed the draft Law on Security and Public Order in the course of mass sports and physical health measures. I'll remind you of the purpose of the bill: to create conditions to ensure the safety and public order of football matches, to prevent illegal acts, to ensure interaction and coordination between authorities, match organizers and international law enforcement services. Now essentially. When adopted in the first reading, the Supreme Council clearly defined the committee's task of defining in the draft safety and public order features during the preparation and conduct of football matches organized in accordance with national and international requirements, excluding from the draft articles general provisions on legal and organisational principles of security and public order during mass sports and physical and health measures, respectively, by specifying the name of the project. In accordance with this commission, the Committee, together with the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Euro-2012 preparatory agency, has substantially improved the bill's standards in preparation for the second reading. We've used already worked methods to protect public order, as well as international standards in this area. In particular, the scope of the law is limited to football matches conducted by the Federation of Football, Champions, and Cups of Ukraine, as well as to those with more than 15,000 viewers, plus matches held by FIFA and UEFA. The committee received 52 amendments, including or partly 48, and only 4 amendments were rejected. At the same time, we received comments from legal authorities, some of which were to be taken into account. So the committee proposes that the bill be adopted in a second reading as a whole or returned to the second reading after all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, this is how we accept it in the second reading, in whole or in part.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u105	To the others again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u106	Well, then let me put him to a second vote right away and get back to work, and that's it. Dear colleagues! I would like to vote on the proposal to resubmit the bill for second reading. [[Registration number 7137]] Please vote. [[11:21:20]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Application of Amnesty in Ukraine and Other Legislative Acts, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 11.03. In 2011 The law is supplemented by a committee in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vladimir Stepanovich Malishev. What? I'm sorry I missed you? Let me know, and we'll figure it out. The Secretariat, please, what happened there? Get out of here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u107	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Your attention is drawn to the revised draft Amnesty Act. This bill has been finalized in the light of the comments of the President of Ukraine and therefore does not conflict with the provisions of article 62 of the Constitution and meets European standards. The application of amnesty will be decided solely by the court after the conviction and compensation of the perpetrators of material damage, which will undoubtedly strengthen the role of the courts and reduce corruption by law enforcement and judicial authorities. Amnesty will not be applied at the pretrial investigation stage. There has been an increase in the number of convicted persons to whom amnesty cannot be applied at all. This is for persons who have committed premeditated serious or particularly serious crimes when two or more people have died or are in a state of alcohol or drug abuse. In finalizing the bill, it had received six proposals. They're all accounted for. Now, in order to protect the interests of victims from criminal acts, as well as to supplement the State budget, I would like to amend article 4 of the bill in addition to my amendments and to add it to paragraph (g) as follows: “to persons who have failed to comply with the obligation to compensate for the damage they have caused”, except for part three of article 6 of the draft. That is, amnesty and non-reparable persons will not be applied at all. Please support this proposal. Now, about my amendment number six. I would like to modify its wording, and I propose that this law enter into force on 1 January 2012. I beg your pardon. In the light of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, I propose that, in part two of article 4, after the words “convicted persons” be supplemented by the words “intentional killing”. The words “in a state of alcohol, narcotics or other intoxication, or under the influence of medicines that reduce the attention and speed of reaction” shall be replaced by the words “in a state of drunkenness or in a state caused by the use of narcotics or other addictive drugs”. After the words “when acquiring bribes”, add the words “use of weapons of mass destruction”. After the word “genocide”, add the words “attack on the life of a representative of a foreign State”. Part two of article 5: after the words “exceptionally”, add the words “in order to end socially dangerous group manifestations”. Part one of article 6 should read as follows: “The persons subject to the Amnesty Act may be released from the term of both the basic and the additional penalty imposed by the court, except the confiscation of property, part of the sentence which was not carried out on the day of the entry into force of the Amnesty Act. I therefore ask for the support of Bill 4179 on second reading and generally as a law, taking into account the proposals I have made. This bill will focus primarily on protecting our ordinary citizens in order to prevent new densities and to ensure that serious crimes are committed as little as possible. That is exactly what our President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic, demands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u108	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u109	Yuri Carmazin. I thank the author, colleague Malishev. The only one with warnings and observations. The amendment of the 6th, which is included, reads: "This law takes effect from the day of its publication." It's absolutely the right thing to do. And what you're saying from your voice right now, let's change from January 1st, I'm asking you to remove this amendment. Because it is absolutely right that you associate with compensation for damage. You know, I've spent many years running this line and, thank God, you're now backing this position. But it's been years since people have come to this. But an amnesty decree may now be issued, you know, in connection. The law, more faithful, adopted on amnesty, in connection with the twentieth century of Independence and so forth. This is why it should be written here in the form you proposed earlier, that is, from the day following its publication. I would like to call you back on this amendment, January 1, 2012. Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u110	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u111	Thank you. Can I answer that? The members of our committee agreed unanimously that it was necessary to adopt it as from 1 January 2012. It is 1 January 2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, let's work it out here. Just a minute. This is where the 6th amendment was fixed: this law takes effect the day after the day of its publication. That's what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u113	Yeah, yeah, I'm making an adjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u114	It's a fix, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u115	Yeah, fix it. Not since the day of the publication of the Voice of Ukraine, but since the day. i.e. from 1 January 2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u116	Then we'll have to vote, Your Honor, if there's an amendment. I'm reminding you again. This is where it is fixed, and the committee has taken into account the position that this law takes effect from the day of its publication. To this amendment was an amendment that took effect on January 1, 2012. So we need to confirm this proposal by a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am voting on the proposal that this law takes effect as of January 1, 2012. Please vote. [[11:29:01]] For 254 Decision taken. I now put to the vote a proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Application of Amnesty in Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine in the new edition. [[Registration number 4179]] Please vote. [[11:29:33]] For 292 The law was passed in a new order. Thank you. I would like to announce for consideration the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the Prevention of Deprivation of State-owned Property Objects, which are not subject to privatization. With President of Ukraine's proposals, the amended law, registration number 4552. The rapporteur is the head of the Economic Policy Committee Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u117	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to draw all the factions' attention to the importance of this law, to remind them of its essence. To implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers passed a bill prohibiting anyone, government or ministry, liquidation or reorganization, bankruptcy, merger and so on with objects banned from privatization. You know that these objects are under the influence of the Supreme Council, and this list is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of this bill by all factions, the President of Ukraine made his remarks about the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to do so. This indicates that the Supreme Council is completely removed from the impact on property issues to objects that are not allowed to be privatized, that is, under its direct knowledge. When the President's proposals were voted on in the Supreme Council, they did not get the necessary number of votes and the President's veto was not overrun, nor was there a certain number of votes. The Supreme Council invited the committee to finalize the bill. He's been working, he's been on the committee several times, and he's still been supported in this way. There's the only amendment I have that is completely consistent with the observations of the Science and Technology Administration, so I haven't formulated it, I've just brought in what the Scientific and Experimental Authority has suggested. And it seems that legal persons included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization may be subject to merger, merger, division, conversion, division, or liquidation only after they have been removed from the said list. This amendment does not remove the Supreme Council from its influence on objects that are not allowed to be privatized if the Cabinet of Ministers wants to do something about these objects it should make appropriate changes to this list and remove these objects from the list. I would like to point out that out of the thousands of 537 objects approved by the Supreme Council, such as those not subject to privatization, a large number of objects are in poor financial condition or have lost legal status. In particular, according to the Cabinet of Ministers, 106 objects are in bankruptcy today. So tomorrow they won't be on the banned list, and the Supreme Council can't influence it in any way. So I'm asking you to be very careful about this proposal, to support my amendment, the scientific expertise and the opinion of the Economic Policy Committee. This will make it possible to have a more clear impact on property matters that concern objects that are not allowed to privatize. In fact, the government has never changed this list by decommissioning, declaring bankruptcy, and pouring out objects, so that these objects can be removed and taken into legal procedure without intervention by the Supreme Council. So once again, I strongly recommend support for the amendment approved by the Committee on Economic Policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Prevention of the Deprivation of State Property Objects That Are Not Privatized. [[Registration number 4552]] The Chief Legal Authority has no comment on the proposed version of the law in the new edition. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u119	It's a work in progress. We've looked at it, we've sent it for work, it's a revised bill. It's a work in progress, it's not a veto we're looking at. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u120	I remind you again, Mikhail Vasilovich, you just listened to what I said. The Supreme Council had already reviewed the President's amendments, they had not obtained a number of votes to support them, but the Supreme Council did not vote and to overcome the veto. That's why the Supreme Council has decided to send it to the committee for further work, we've worked on it, I've only considered the amendment of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which is fully supported by the Committee on Economic Policy, and we don't have another regulatory option for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u121	Colleagues, we've been assigned to work on the committee. ‘ The committee is preparing a new edition. He suggested this new edition. If the Supreme Council accepts, and the President disagrees, he will have the right to use the veto again. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Prevention of Derogation and Object of State Property Rights, which are not subject to privatization. [[Registration number 4552]] Please vote. [[11:36:19]] For-75 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The factions, please. The region's party is 0, "BUT" is "Patochina" - 30, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 19, communists - 24, "Reforms for the Future" - 0, People's Party - 0, non-factional - 2. What's the number? See Adam Ivanovich Dear National Deputies! Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine included in the agenda a bill marking the 70th anniversary of John Mikolaychuk's birth. Dear National Deputies! It's actually a Jubilee, and we haven't decided yet. So there's a proposal, let's vote and take this decision without politics. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the voting motion for adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree to mark the 70th anniversary of John Mikolajczuk's birth. [[Registration number 8587]] Please vote. [[11:37:43]] For 331 It's been decided. The author is the people. Guys. Dear National Deputies! I'm announcing the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u122	Viacheslav Kirilenko. I told you guys, come on. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the ratification of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. It was suggested that this issue should be dealt with in a simplified manner. I have to put her to a vote. Please vote. [[11:38:36]] For 211 Decision taken. Reporter – Governmental Commissioner for Human Rights in the European Court of Human Rights Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna. Coroner is the first Deputy Head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection Activities, Oliynik Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, the distinguished national MPs! Yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine agreed to ratify the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. However, this Second Additional Protocol will not be properly implemented in national legislation until there is no national law that will properly amend criminal and procedural legislation to allow new forms of international cooperation to take place in accordance with the Second Additional Protocol. In this connection, this draft Ukrainian law has been drafted, which we now propose to your attention, which envisages amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. What will be the basis and order of relations between the courts and law enforcement agencies of Ukraine and other states in order to provide international legal assistance in criminal matters, and will provide for new forms and procedures of cooperation in the conduct of the follow-up of the telephone and video conference, and the conditions for the establishment and order of joint international investigation teams, the arrangements for reimbursement of expenses related to the provision of international legal assistance, and so on. In view of the fact that this draft law will indeed allow us to implement our international obligations, which the Supreme Council has already agreed to take on the proposal to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u124	Yes. Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik, first deputy head of the committee. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u125	Honorary Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, adopted on June 1, 2011, by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Act on the Ratification of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters was adopted. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the ratification of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, introduced by the President of Ukraine for the purpose of implementing Ukraine's legislation, lays down the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, signed on behalf of Ukraine on 8 November 2001. To this end, the bill proposes to amend the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, which, inter alia, sets out the basis and order of relations between the judicial and law enforcement authorities of Ukraine and the competent authorities of foreign States, the conditions for the establishment and order of the activities of the special investigation group, the procedure for the execution of the request, the international legal assistance commission and the conditions under which international legal assistance may be refused. The Criminal Procedure Code is supplemented by new articles and chapters dealing with the issues mentioned above. According to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, a draft law on the results of the first reading, in view of the requirement of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, should be sent for further work. At the same time, according to the Committee, comments made may be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading, and therefore the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft bill be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u126	Thank you, sit down. What, shall we vote, dear fellows?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u127	Discussion. Sign up. So I'm saying serious things. Please sign up. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u128	Vladimir Karpuk. Please hand Yuri Carmazin over.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u129	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u130	Yuri Carmazin. I'll take a joint position with Vladimir Karpuk. In my opinion, the scientific expertise has worked extremely hard, this is Mr. Popovic, this bill. And I want to tell you that the comments they wrote are extremely correct. That's why the bill. What fate does the bill have to have? They're offering to send for work. In principle, we can support him in the first reading. But. Definitely, but. Chapter 39, especially article 485, provides that the adoption of criminal persecution not only compels Ukraine to go beyond the Second Additional Protocol, where there are no provisions for the adoption of criminal persecution, it also obliges another State to file a criminal case against its citizen suspected of committing a crime in another State, in parallel with the conduct of an investigation. As a result, this does not suit Ukraine’s interests in this case. The bill does not refer at all to the further fate of this person on whom the matter is being referred. And there are substantial remarks to articles 479, which is the previous chapter 38, to article 478. And so, of course, you can listen to full-scale scientific and experimental management, that is to say, send for work, but I suggest you take this first reading, but carefully write this bill, and clean it up, because there we go before the entire planet. You don't have to be so cautious, I'm telling the government, you don't have to spread out like that before the sunset. Take your time. You have to have Ukrainian national dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u131	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u132	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I would not be as firm as my predecessor, although in many positions he is right, specifically he is right. And so radical in that it's all wrong here and it's hurting Ukrainian interests. Well, that's not true. First of all, not so much because of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u133	Some moments, you said. First of all, let's push away from what we made yesterday, we ratified it. I was speaking from this rostrum, and other colleagues were saying that at the same time this bill, which we are considering today, should have been considered yesterday. And it's not bad enough that we actually did it the next day, so you can do it here with some claims, but you can say that the simultaneous consideration is still going on. Basically, I don't think there are any obstacles here for us to actually take on. Not all the conclusions of science management are, as you might say, true, I think. Some of them call for discussion, but this does not mean that we cannot lead this discussion by preparing a proposal for a second reading. It's a bill that needs to be adopted, it needs to be adopted, because it's not just a globalized economy, it's not just politics, it's globalized and it's a criminal world, we know that. And that's particularly true of the community, the environment where we want to get into both political and economic, and we have to be in the legal order as well. So let's take this bill as a basis, and then the fears and the discussion or discussion moments that we have, we can fix. The People's Party faction will vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u134	Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the ratification of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. [[Registration number 8467]] Please vote. [[11:47:31]] For 297 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider with you a bill to restore the ability of the debtor or to declare him bankrupt. [[new editor]] Now, one minute. Registration number 8531. At the same time, there is no committee decision on the bill. I propose to postpone it and ask the committee to prepare for next plenary week's consideration of this bill. Taras Chernobyl, please. Did you have a question? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u135	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Regarding what was just adopted in the first reading of the project. Well, our parliamentary group thought that it could in principle be accepted in this way as a whole. But if there is a warning, the bill itself provides a solution to the technology of our cooperation in criminal matters. And changes to it can be technological. So our proposal is to shorten the deadline for preparation for second reading. In this case, this will be justified. Because of the mandatory norm that we are to adopt ratifications and changes to laws together, we have slightly interrupted that term so that we can conclude the procedure at that session. Therefore, the request from the MPs to shorten the deadline.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u136	Dear National Deputies! The Cabin doesn't object, I think, to such an offer? I am voting on the proposal to shorten the deadline for the second reading of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the ratification of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. Registration number 8467. That is, preparing it for second reading by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:49:33]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! There is a request from the committee to postpone consideration of the draft Law on the characteristics of the management of public property in the defence and industrial complex, because it was also not considered by the committee. [[Registration number 8462]] I ask the committee to submit this bill for the next plenary week. No objections? Thank you. Let's make a decision this way. If the bills are not ready for consideration and the month is not over, we will not be included in the schedule of meetings. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and some other legislative acts. [[Registration number 8545]] I would like to vote on the proposal of the people's deputies to consider the bill on short notice. Please vote. [[11:50:47]] For 222 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valeriy Alexiyovich Baranov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u137	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! Our bill provides for changes to the specific norms of the Code of Budgets, which will allow local communities and their bodies to invest in their development, to break the barriers that today prevent cities from having a development strategy and some other norms that benefit our regional policy. The law provides for changes to the specific rules of the Budget Code, such as those. First, an expansion of the list of cities that can do local external borrowing. We have a population of 500,000, and today this threshold has been reduced to 300,000. And the organization of regulations for the granting of state and local guarantees. This will finally enable cities to invest, not from commercial banks that can't be accepted, because high interest rates, and others to engage sources and take money under, cheap money under the long run of the project. Secondly, we propose to organize the components of the Local Budget, by including the real estate tax in its income, and the fuel cost of participating in the development of the residential infrastructure, by referring to its payments for local guarantees, and by lending loans to local self-government authorities for the implementation of programmes and measures. It is also proposed that the law of article 40 of the Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities (on the Comings) be brought into force from the 13th to the 12th year.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u138	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u139	There's a lot more to the growth of infrastructure. To conclude, I will say that very many proposals were made by the Association of Ukrainian Cities, the Association of District Council Heads, along with Minfin and the Committee on Budgets. So this is a very progressive bill that will allow our regions to develop more than before.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u140	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, it is well known today that any, as well as the people's MP who deals with the problems of the region, from morning to evening, is the most important issue of all, is to kick money out. Beating them up means asking them in Kiev, while not using local business conditions, does not create an appropriate legislative environment to allow patriotic businessmen in their territories to invest in certain social programmes, particularly gasification, roads. It is this bill that aims to create an enabling environment for additional financial resources. I think the bill clearly needs to be supported. Moreover, I would have gone radically, not just the population of 500 to 300,000, but any city should have a right. What's the difference between a city of 100,000 and 50,000 from a city of 300,000? The bill therefore clearly requires support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u142	Alexander Steshenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u143	Volodymyr Mihailovich, please Sassa Sergey Volodymyrovich's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u144	Sergei Sass. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I wanted to remind my colleagues that the bill proposed to amend not only the budget code but also to amend the Supreme Council Rules on the procedure for considering the draft budget bill. The bill proposes, in contrast to the wording currently in existence, that the procedure in the Rules of Procedure for the adoption of the State Budget Act should be repealed in the second reading. The first reading suggests accepting conclusions and suggestions when proposals are made by national deputies, committees, and factions, but these proposals are considered only by the committee, and a bill on the State budget is adopted in the first reading, approving conclusions and proposals. A second reading of the bill does not provide for an article vote. So the point is that the National MP, by making his proposals and conclusions, he can't protect them, they're not being considered by the Supreme Council. In our view, this is a gross violation of the Constitution of Ukraine with regard to the right to legislative initiative. So yesterday, we discussed this issue on the preliminary committee on changes to the Rules, on the Rules Committee, and we suggest that we make changes to part six of the 157 articles so that when we consider the bill in the first reading, we will have to consider the proposals of the National Deputies in the Hall, and only the Supreme Council will have to decide whether or not to support the bill. If this proposal is not supported, then it will all come down to what was adopted in the first reading, the second in general, and literally in a few days the bill on the state budget will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin passes on the right to speak to Kiril Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as a member of the budget committee, I voted against this bill yesterday. First of all, I agree with my colleague Sass, who said that changes are being made to the Rules. How the budget issue will be dealt with in short-term mode. They are already being considered on the budget committee today. There is a government decision, and the budget committee accepts everything the government offers. There is no denying the actions of the government. That's the first one. The second question. What do we do when we grant the right to increase our debt? We're changing the method of calculating the marginal debt. We're modifying the budget code. So today the whole country is in debt, tomorrow all the local debt councils will be in debt. They'll all be in debt. We see in the example of the city of Kiev what is happening today with the borrowing. What do we want to do? So the whole country can be held hostage? You can't do that. Another issue is that of dealing with the issue only in the presence of a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, the government. So today we're practically creating curators who will run the budget committee. That's how it is. The Committee on Budgets only agrees. the legitimization of all government decisions, nothing is decided by the budget committee today. Everything the government gives, the budget committee swallows. So today it's not an organ of the Supreme Council, it's not an organ of representation. I can't agree with that. Today, the role of the budget committee is being completely undermined, and the bill completely invalidates the role of the Supreme Council. That's impossible to accept, and this bill must be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let us therefore see that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if there is government support, the budget will always be adopted. And those observations, which are clearly stated by the Scientific and Experimental Authority, show that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should play the role of sanctification. I think it's completely wrong. So let us not ruin the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are very important proposals in this project that relate to entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship on the ground. But I would ask the committee, I understand that you have established connections directly with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to consider that there is still the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I propose to send a bill for re-reading and to propose to the committee to remove all the inadequacies that apply to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, I mean the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. I am voting on the proposal to re-read the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and some other legislative acts. [[Registration number 8545]] Please vote. [[12:00:59]] For 284 Decision taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 31 minutes. 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, may I invite you to continue your work? It's being announced. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider a draft of the Law amending article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, but since the committee has not considered it, it has not been possible to consider it, and there is an appeal from the committee, I propose that we postpone consideration of this issue for the next plenary week. [[on the guarantee of the succession of obligations]] Is there no objection? I ask the committee to prepare the bill for the next plenary week. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on Free Legal Assistance is being announced. [[second reading]] Reporter: Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich, head of the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u150	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of Regions, Committee of Legal Policy The Committee on Legal Policy provides Parliament with a comparative table of the draft Ukrainian Law on Free Legal Assistance. [[Registration number 4406]] I will note that the Law on Free Legal Assistance is one of the most important and long-awaited acts that citizens of Ukraine have been waiting for from the Supreme Council of Ukraine for many years since the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine, because not every citizen, especially now that income is low, will be able to ensure at its own expense the realization of its constitutional rights to protection and representation, as provided for in the 59th article of the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, the adoption of the Free Legal Aid Act is also one of Ukraine’s major obligations to the Council of Europe, which supported the creation of the bill itself. To confirm this, I would like to remind you that in order to implement Ukraine’s obligations and obligations arising out of its membership in the Council of Europe, Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovicz specifically pointed out the need for this law to be adopted as soon as possible. The essence of the law is to create an effective system of providing free legal aid. This concept of the law adopted in the first reading provides for the establishment of centres for the provision of free legal assistance in all areas of Ukraine. Free legal aid is offered both during the pre-trial settlement of disputes, which is, so-called, primary legal aid and at the stage of judicial review – a secondary legal aid. The provision of free legal aid to citizens is proposed to be implemented from the Ukrainian State Budget in a step - by - step manner. Now, regarding our committee's decision. The committee thoroughly approached the development of a comparative table for second reading and consulted with the Ministry of Justice, with public associations, and with citizens. And by a majority of votes, it is suggested that this law be adopted in the second reading and in general. I hope for your support, because it is in the interests of the most vulnerable segments of the population of Ukraine. Please support the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u151	Yeah, let's do some repairs. Dear colleagues, 1st Amendment. Dear colleagues, 1st Amendment. Is Alexander Steshenko insisting on her? No, it's not. Next up, 3rd Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. It's partially accounted for. Does it suit you? Thank you. Yeah, Carmazine's 5th amendment is rejected. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u152	Yuri Carmazin. The distinguished national deputies are certainly positive in this project. Now, you see, there's already a term for "mediation." But what I'd like to say is that right now, the Mediation Act, introduced by the National Deputy Ishchenko, we've written a letter to the President to speed it up and admit it in a row, this Media Act. I propose to complete part two of article 7, paragraph 5, with the following content: "Representation by a prosecutor in the civil court of the interests of a citizen in cases provided for by law." It's about that. The Constitution states that there is representation of a citizen's interests in a court of law by a prosecutor. The point is that there are older people, people who cannot protect themselves, people with disabilities, and this is the Public Prosecutor’s Office, which in such cases must carry out this representation, and this should be in cases provided for by law, the duty of the prosecutor, not the right, because otherwise it depends on the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u153	Now. Please, Yuri Romanovich, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u154	Indeed, the committee rejected the amendment. But we know that the Constitution distinguishes the concept of legal aid and representation by the Public Prosecutor's Office in court. The right to legal aid is provided in part one of article 59 of the Constitution and depends on the will of the citizen, while section five of article 36-1 of the Procuratorship Act states that the prosecutor himself determines the grounds for representation in the courts and the form of its implementation. So this amendment seemed to us to be something that we could not count. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u155	The 5th Yuri Karmazin vote is voted on. [[12:39:10]] For -14 Correction not supported. 10th Amendment. Basil Hara insists on her? No, it's not. Carmazine, 14th Amendment. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone. There's 15th Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, these amendments, they're only for the benefit of the people, so don't worry. I propose that part of article 10 be deleted. Stop. That's 14th. Is that 14th?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u157	15th, I guess. Bo 14, over there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u158	Vladimir Mikhailovich, 14th language.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u159	There's your 14th and your 15th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u160	Yeah, I'm 14. Article 10 of Article 10 should be deleted. That's what this is about. An appeal that does not relate to the provision of primary legal aid is considered in the order established by the law on the appeal of citizens, since virtually all complaints and appeals to the authorities require legal aid in one form or another. After all, even clarifying the rights of a citizen who has appealed to the authorities is already a means of providing such assistance. Just as officials will always try to interpret these references, which are not related to the provision of primary legal aid. That is why I propose part 10 of article 10 to delete and I ask you to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u161	It's the 14th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[12:40:48]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. 15th Amendment, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u162	The 15th amendment relates to part two of article 11, which I propose to put in this version. The reception of persons in need of free primary legal assistance is regularly held on fixed days and hours, not less than twice a week. The reception schedule should be brought to their attention, since otherwise officials can determine the reception of such persons once a year, and so forth. Because the text that's written down, I'm going to show you the difference between what I wrote in a democratic way. It takes place continuously in the appointed days and hours, and the schedule must be brought to their knowledge. It's volunteerism. Dear Yuri Romanovich! Don't you see that you need to be precise, and I'll tell you that from my experience, I know that you have to spend twice a week at least, that's what a loving official has to do. Why are we doing this? We're narrowing down citizens' rights. So look, I want to improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u163	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u164	Yuri Anatolyovich, I am very grateful that you are working conscientiously, in fact, on the entire legislative array and making very many amendments, and I personally share your logic. But I'm going to report on it on behalf of the committee, and unfortunately, the committee thinks that setting the number of times a reception takes place, it limits the rights of citizens rather than guarantees them. This is the position of the committee, Yuri Anatolyevich, I emphasize once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, please let's have a calm discussion. It's the 15th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[12:43:08]] For-23 No correction supported. 18th Amendment. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin, 18th Amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank all 23 men who have learned that people need help. I think you wait for the President to explain to you after the residentials that you still have to accept people, wait until I've warned you. Article 12 proposes to supplement part nine of the following content: “The recipient of free legal aid is granted the right to freely choose the defender of his rights, with which, in the event of the consent of the defender, an appropriate agreement is made to represent the interests of the subject. ” This is done in order to comply with the requirements of part one of article 59 of the Constitution, since everyone is free to choose a defender of his rights, so please support this amendment. Today, at the time of the adoption of another law, we have done the wrong thing, where we have failed to comply with the requirement in article 63 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which provides that the protector is immediately granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u167	Yuri Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the point is that the substance of the amendment itself deserves attention. At the same time, however, new concepts are introduced: such as free legal aid and protection. As a result of the glossary used in the very body of the law, there is no such concept. And we have a question of a possible colossion: when the same thing is called different in the text of the same law. So they've actually rejected this amendment. It should either be in harmony with the concepts that went throughout the text and then be approved or rejected. The committee decided to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u169	I'm betting on the vote on the 18th Jury Carmazin amendment. [[12:45:31]] For-21 No correction supported. Yeah, 31st Amendment. Basil Hara insists on her? No, it's not. Okay, 33rd Amendment, Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u170	28th? I'm sorry, Yuri Anatolyovich, yes, indeed. 28th Amendment, Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u171	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The 28th amendment, it's rejected. Think about it, please. Paragraph 8 of part one of article 14, I propose that the following should be made: "Disabled persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster, many children's parents, single mothers on legal services regarding issues related to their social protection." But the situation that we face with the social protection of this category of persons does not withstand any criticism at all. We expect that more decisions will be taken against Ukraine by the European Court of Human Rights again, evidently so. So please consider these things, and these categories of people, the most disadvantaged, have to be included here in this law. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u172	Yuri Anatolyovich, I thank you for your attention to Parliament and to the whole society on these unprotected levels. But I want to pay attention to everyone who can hear us, and it's now working on this law, that this law extends in principle to those who are disadvantaged who need free legal aid. And actually, talking about these categories separately, well, the committee didn't think it was worthwhile, because maybe we didn't count someone who needed them as much as the ones you listed. Thus, all who need such help free of charge must exercise the right to free legal aid. And that's why the committee came out, so I didn't support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u173	I'm betting on the vote for Amendment 2, the author is Yuri Carmazin. [[12:48:17]] For-12. The amendment is not supported. Amendment to the 40th Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u174	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You were gone yesterday. Unfortunately, no project came through. And now we do not want to isolate the disabled individually, it is the duty of the State, and we will carry it sooner or later. Well, that's when you'll see that this is to be considered. I propose that section 5 of the first article 20 be deleted. Let me remind you that there are reasons for refusing to grant free secondary aid. And there's a reason: "The person has used all the national remedies in the case of free secondary legal aid." I'm asking you to delete this item. And I'm saying that there's a probability that there's a restriction on the provision of assistance in the case of appropriate international judicial bodies or relevant bodies. So we can't deny this to a person in legal aid if he's still talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u175	Yes, Yuri Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u176	Yuri Anatolyovich, you know, I want to agree with you in fact again, but the committee was facing a difficult choice. On the one hand, our good intentions are understandable. And in this case, protecting and representing the interests of Ukrainian citizens not only at national level, but also at the level of international courts, it is acceptable. But based on what the state has today, we will not be able to implement this norm. It's a very expensive thing. And the country's budget will not ensure its implementation. And we're going to face a situation where the norm declares such a right, and we can't guarantee it, so what we're going to do is we're going to cause even more reproach on our citizens, because we're going to be dealing with populist norms that aren't going to be implemented. Thank you. So the committee didn't actually count them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u177	It's the 40th Yuri Karmazin vote. Please be sure. [[12:50:57]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. 41st Amendment, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u178	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you to all those who have supported the amendments, such as the colleagues of Landik. Part two of article 20, I propose, in the following wording: "When a person has used all the national remedies in a case where he has sought free secondary legal assistance in the preparation of an appeal to relevant international tribunals or relevant bodies of international organizations, the member or participant of which is Ukraine." End of quote. I'll give you a reason. This is necessary in order to provide legal aid in the event of appropriate international judicial or relevant bodies of international organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u179	Yuri Anatolyovich, respected colleagues, the same problem. The previous amendment referred to international courts, and it referred to international organizations. And of course, I would very much like that right to free legal aid, when it comes to turning our citizens to an international level to protect their rights, to be guaranteed at the expense of the budget. But unfortunately, we can't guarantee that there's money to make it work. So we suggest that we introduce these standards as far as our budget is able to provide them financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u180	Puts to the vote the 41st amendment. The 41st amendment shall be voted on. May I have your attention, please? [[12:52:51]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. Amendment 51. Alexander Steshenko, are you insisting on her? Oh, no? Yeah? Please, it's Alexander Steshenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I think this amendment is appropriate and would ask the chairman to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u182	I'm betting on the 51st Amendment of Alexander Steshenko. [[12:53:31]] For-37 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, all other amendments are included. Yes, I'm voting on the committee's second reading proposal and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u183	Yeah, yeah. Adopt, on second reading and as a whole, the draft law of the Free Legal Aid Act. [[Registration number 4406]] At the same time, my distinguished colleagues, I bring to your attention that the Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill needs to be redrafted and re-readed. The proposals made by the Legal Authority are put into 12 positions. A committee proposal shall be put to the vote. Yeah, five pages. A proposal for a second reading committee and an entire draft Law on free legal assistance shall be put to the vote. [[Registration number 4406]] Please vote. I'm voting on the first regulatory proposal. If we don't, then we'll keep thinking. [[12:54:53]] For 289 The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u184	The Chief Legal Authority’s observations are made in advance. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The law that we're sending to the President of Ukraine. And the President will determine whether or not to take these proposals into account. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you postpone your consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Graduation, Gardening and Peasants. [[about the size of the collection rate]] This letter was addressed by the author of the bill, and this is the third time we've postponed his consideration. Let's do it one last time. For next plenary week? Is there no objection? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on individual terms of reference of the Central Electoral Commission]] [[Registration number 5482]] In view of your proposal, I put it to a vote, namely, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:56:26]] For 203 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. The focal point is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Sergey Petrovich Podgorny. Please. Olga Bodnar will report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u185	Yuri Carmazin. Dear people's deputies, it's a shame that we're looking at such a serious bill in a shortcut. This bill was introduced long ago, at least in 2009, in December. The project proposes to amend the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act in connection with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on October 19, 2009. And also in part of its publication on the official website of the Central Electoral Commission of information on the electoral stage. Restrictions on the use of candidates for the office of President of Ukraine, including by association, in State authorities or local authorities, in state or municipal enterprises, in institutions, institutions and organizations, in military formations established in accordance with Ukrainian laws, have been imposed or used to carry out pre-election campaigns against subordinates, officials and officials of public authorities, local self-government bodies, state or municipal enterprises, institutions, organizations, military formations established in accordance with Ukrainian laws or those financed under the State Budget. I'm in a hurry, you know, to make it impossible. In the 21st century, when almost half of Ukrainians have access to the Internet, it is appropriate to use an electronic signature to post all this information on official websites as a matter of urgency. It is also suggested that you enter responsibility for refusing to participate in television debates. The candidate for the presidency of Ukraine is obliged to participate in television debates. The number of television debates should be such that the candidates for the presidency will participate no more than once. The refusal of a presidential candidate to participate in television debates entails an appeal by the CTC to the Supreme Court of Ukraine to revoke the decision to register a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine. In order to avoid falsifying the results of the election, it is proposed that the number one protocol should be an integral appendix to the “specified” protocol and that the “specified” protocol without the protocol should not have legal force.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u186	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! It is proposed that the trusted persons of each candidate in the Presidents of Ukraine be given the opportunity to have a copy of the minutes of the vote within the constituency, even if a trusted person for some reason is unable to participate in the meeting of this committee. I would like to thank the Committee on Legal Policy for fully supporting this bill. I would also like to thank the members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, in which the votes were divided. Please support this first-reading project, which is needed to democratize society.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u188	Thank you, thank you. Olga Bodnar of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government on February 2, 2011, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, reviewed the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine regarding individual powers of the Central Electoral Commission. In particular, the bill proposes to oblige the CEVC to publish immediately on the official CEVC website information on the electoral process stages; to introduce responsibility for refusing to participate in television debates, in the form of cancelling the decision to register a candidate for the presidency; to impose restrictions on the use of candidates for the post of President of Ukraine, including co-opportunity, in public authorities or local self-government bodies, in order to carry out pre-election agitation not only for persons under their control, but also for officials and officials of public authorities, and so on. At the same time, the bill proposes amendments to the above-mentioned legislative acts related to the Constitutional Court’s decision of 19 October 2009 in the case of amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the election of the President of Ukraine. It is also proposed to amend certain provisions regarding the financing of the President’s election, the purchase of goods and services, the compilation by election committees of protocols, and the provision of copies thereof to electoral subjects, and so forth. People’s deputies also considered the findings of the bill that came to the committee. Yes, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy believes that the provisions of the bill do not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and that the outcome of the first reading may be accepted as a basis. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues concluded that the bill had no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget or on its implementation during the current budget period. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on a basis, taking into account the comments and suggestions made to it. When we discussed the bill at our committee meeting, the committee members were divided. Some of the national deputies supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u190	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u191	the purpose of the proposed changes. Others feel that the proposed changes should be considered in the context of a comprehensive improvement in electoral legislation. The discussion of the matter by the national deputies did not reach agreement: four were supported by the 12 present, and six were not supported. In connection with the State Building Committee on Local Self - Government in accordance with part four of article 111 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, Ukraine introduced a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts, number 5482, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for decision - making. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u192	Thank you. Honorable Fellows, Will We Discuss or Make Decisions? Discuss? Please sign up. I'd like the names of the people's deputies on the board. National Deputy Petyovka, Ruslan Knazević, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u193	I thank Vasil Vasilovitch Petyovci for the opportunity to express myself. Dear colleagues, the right committee is probably the best thing to discuss, of course, the entire array of electoral legislation. And we had that hope, we cherished it until we believed that we were about to get a draft of the Electoral Code in that working group that was sitting with the President. But unfortunately, they went the other way, they went the other way of making changes just to the People's Deputies Act. And that's why the author of the legislative initiative, by the way, did not focus on the full range of electoral legislation, and I think that this should have been finished, in fact, the law itself is only about one law: the President's Election Act. I understand that the President's election is still a long way off, and I realize that I don't want to provoke them to get closer to us by drawing up electoral laws right now. However, if we are now talking about that in the near future we will be working on the Law on the Elections of Deputies, we simply cannot afford to go any further by pushing away from the law that will be worked out, not to improve the law that we recently conducted the President's election. We remember how many problems we had at the time. Now, I'm not going to stop at them in the absence of time, but I'm going to say that the things that are here are, of course, debated to a large extent, but they have some logic. For example, we are spending an enormous amount of money from the State budget to debate candidates who may have a few dozen that even candidates do not show up to a greater extent. Their confidants come who don't even understand what the air is about, and they don't understand the point of the problem, and the state is spending hundreds of millions of dollars on it. Well, it's only in Ukraine that can happen. Now let's go the other way. Now this bill says that any cost of pre-election agitation, including debate, is possible only for the candidate's own funds. Perhaps in this law we should do the same in the future, because we can't afford such a great luxury at the moment. The same is true of the problem that is now being raised here, about the possibility of, say, adding the first protocol to the specified one. We know that we have a problem with this work, because as we have it clarified, then it is not clear which one it is in turn. At the end of the electoral commission can't cheat. I'm like a man who.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u194	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u195	I recall very well the situation when, even to the Central Electoral Commission, a number of detailed protocols were introduced after the election results had been established. To address these problems, this bill is a good foundation, a good basis for future complex processing, but it cannot be rejected now. Let's take it as a base and based.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u196	Thank you. Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "Fathership". Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u197	Dear voters, dear colleagues! It's quite obvious that you and I are living in a country where there are some signs of residual democracy, more precisely of a fragile democracy. It would seem that the fairest elections were held in 1990, and I can testify to that as a participant in the elections and the winners of that time, perhaps even in 1994. Later, they were elections, to a greater or lesser extent, but they were usually falsified. Today, Ukrainian society does not really trust the results of the elections. It's already all the social services that are, today, that confirm it. It would seem that we, the legislators, would have to rush, push for laws and elections to the President, and elections to local councils, and elections to the Supreme Council, make legislation as democratic as possible, as open, as accessible to everyone. We're going in the exact opposite direction. And it's what we're now offered for our next election. I mean, the parliamentary elections to the Supreme Council, already the bill in which such a mess is mixed and such traps are set up to make counterfeiting absolutely open. I said that in order to say that we would actually have to make new laws, not patch them up on the run, on the run, like we did. In fact, you did: literally before the election in three or four days, you made corrections that could no longer be complained of, nothing. That's why I want to say that we really have to do the fundamental work, but in this case what Yuri Carmazin did, I think we should thank him, and there are very good moments. I wanted to stop at one. All over the world, it's accepted that the main competitors go to the arena, on television, they're seen by the whole country, each voter has the ability to evaluate intelligence, morality, permeability, education, intelligence -- whatever you want, evaluate the candidate and then choose. What did we do? Julia Timoshenko had to talk to the wall and the camera operator because Janukovich was afraid to go out on these. In another country.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u198	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u199	In another country, if a person refused to do so, no voices could be spoken of at all. Because of this, I believe, and we will vote – the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” – for these amendments in the first reading, they must be adopted, they will improve our Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u200	Thank you. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u201	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! If I didn't know the author and read the law, I thought the secretary of Suslov's ideology would write it at Brezhnev. When everything was regulated tightly until the last minute. We live in a democratic country! [[B in m in s a l in]] What's this all about? [[(U in m in s a l in]] . [[Laughter]] Or is the author still thinking in those categories? It's coming out. the right to move – parties. Please, we went even further in the Elections Act. In the Local Elections Act. Come back, the Supreme Council, we have laid down the right to self-improve non-partisans. And what do we think is the smartest in parties? Or are there smart people outside the party? So he doesn't have the right to be in Parliament? Let it go, yeah. That's democracy!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u202	Now it's about the President. If that's right. He stood up, and that's his right to advertise: either I'm seeing people a thousand times or twice. If I don't date people, I'm playing against myself, I'm gonna put up a score. On the contrary, I'm playing without going on the air, pouring water on my competitor's mill, helping my competitor. But it's democratic: whether I go on television or not; or whether I'm in a rally or not. But if you want to build a conglomerate democracy, we're not on our way, we're going to Europe, there's other values, yes. So this question is covered with naphthalene, naphthalene, yes! Don't vote for him! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u203	Yuri Carmazin, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u204	Yuri Carmazin. I'm not exactly like Suslov, Mr. Chechetov, this is the first time. And secondly, it's extremely unfortunate that, in all this huge, complex bill that says that the Constitutional Court's decision should be taken into account. What about the decision of the Constitutional Court! Your Minister of Justice, you don't respect the Constitution, you're talking about the Constitutional Court's decision. So he takes into account the Constitutional Court's decision in a complex way, he takes into account the changes that should be made to the Central Electoral Commission Act and the President's election. Because what you've done right now is what Ruslan Knyazevich was telling you about when you did it in Minsk. They wrote a project under the table, and then they said on behalf of all the parties, you're legitimizing political corruption. This law is against political corruption. But according to Freud, you said that you were giving up television. Clearly, why. The people themselves will come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u205	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! All right, all right, respectable colleagues! The discussion is closed. Dear colleagues, the committee has decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be decided by a vote on the support or non-support of the bill. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a proposal, a regulation, i.e. a first proposal: to adopt as a basis the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on individual powers of the Central Electoral Commission. Registration number 5482. [[13:12:22]] For-100 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Regional Party is 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 46, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 15, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 16, National Party – 20, non-factional – 3. The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. So honored are the national MPs, Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u206	Let me do it again first. I would like to vote on the proposal to re-read the bill. [[Registration number 5482]] Please identify yourself. [[13:13:13]] For 109 Despite increased support, no decision was taken, and the bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, Yuri Miroshnichenko wrote to the Supreme Council asking them to withdraw a number of drafts. I'll read their numbers and put them to a vote so we can make a decision right away. About withdrawals, proposals, bills, registration number: 634.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u207	Each and every one of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u208	Do you need each and every one of them? I'm told that we should vote on our own. Let's vote. I would like to vote on the knowledge of the draft Law on Amendments to Articles 55 and 252 of the Code of Masters of Ukraine on clarifying the definition of the subjects of farming. [[Registration number 6347]] Please vote. [[13:14:23]] For 256 Decision taken. I am betting on the vote on the withdrawal of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, registration number 6348. [[on clarifying the definition of subjects who have the right to appeal to a court]] Please vote. [[13:14:58]] For 258. Decision taken. I am proposing to withdraw from the draft Act amending articles 228 and 253 of the Criminal Procedure Code, registration number 7219. [[on the verification of individual investigations]] Please vote. [[13:15:36]] For 253 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the motion to withdraw from the draft Law amending articles 172 and 173 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 7236. [[on responsibility for crimes in the field of labour rights]] Please vote. The author believes that the other laws he proposes are already in place. [[13:16:06]] For 253 Decision taken. I am betting on the vote on the withdrawal of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 116 of the master’s procedural code of Ukraine (for the procedure for issuing an order from the court of agriculture), registration number 6040. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're taking down drafts that are out of date. [[13:16:35]] For 252 Decision taken. They're fine in the daytime. And if you remove them from the agenda, you need a decision from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I am voting on the motion to withdraw the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the status of the suspect]] Registration number 7235. It's a bill that's a year old. Please vote. [[13:17:19]] For 255 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Contracts for Distribution. [[on State guarantees]] Registration number 7402. The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:17:50]] For 222 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Horoskevich Alexander Sergiyyovich. Correspondent is the head of the Economic Policy Committee Committee, Alexy Vitaliyovich Plonikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u209	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The potential supply of hydrocarbons in Ukraine, especially with regard to the development of the Black Sea shelf, has been said to be high in recent times. Unfortunately, however, we still do not see the results. So one of our main tasks with you is to provide conditions for stable business management and to create harmonized legislation for the implementation of investment projects in Ukraine. From the experience of world practice one of the most effective mechanisms of cooperation between the State and the investor is the distribution agreements. Last year, a law was passed on amendments to the Act on Contracts for Distribution of Produce, which was primarily aimed at bringing the law into line with the legislation of Ukraine as a whole and to the practice of the world. On what remains open is one of the most relevant aspects for investors of the stability of the legislation given to investors. And so the lack of guarantees for changes in the Production Allocation Agreements Act will have a very negative impact and impact on foreign investment, long-term risk capital projects. However, article 340 of the Ukrainian Tax Code and article 8 of the Ukrainian Foreign Investment Act have already established a so - called stability rule. Moreover, the Tax Code provides that the State guarantees the rights and obligations of the investor in the performance of tax obligations relating to the contract and the distribution of goods will apply legislation at the time of the agreement, unless the law reduces taxes or taxes or congregations. The bill that I have proposed proposes to distribute the same standard not only on tax matters but also on other civil law relations that occur during the implementation of projects. The adoption of this bill will allow a stable basis for multibillion-billion-dollar investment in the development and extraction of fossil fuels and strategic energy resource tasks, which will increase the production of energy resources, including oil and gas, as well as Ukraine's energy independence. So it's proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u210	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u211	The State guarantees the rights and obligations of an investor as defined by the agreement on the distribution of products during the period of its operation, the legislation applied at the time of the conclusion of the agreement, except for legislation that reduces or cancels taxes or congregations, simplifies the regulation of economic activity in the search for development and the production of beneficial fossils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u212	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Colonel Alexy Vitaliyovich, please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u213	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on 5 April 2012, Protocol No. 60, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Horoskević. [[on State guarantees]] The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Product Allocation Agreements, which will allow guarantees against changes in legislation for the duration of the contract. So create a stable and favourable mode of use for the duration of this agreement. In its conclusion 3.02.2011, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office made several comments and suggestions to the bill, and noted that it was appropriate to return it for further work. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce (for State Guarantees), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Horoshkevich, and adopted on first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u214	Dear National Deputies! Who will be involved in discussing this bill, please register. Please give me a name. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u215	I'm offering to support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u216	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u217	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u218	Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u219	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! It happened that before your vacation last year you proposed the law that the President then vetoed. And then you didn't hear what the lobbying interests were, especially those students who decided to do the shelf scrubbing and Gazprom, which is now buying in our visible oligarchs also those pieces of the shelf. That's why, to serve this, and it was passed that law, which then justly brought the President a veto. And now another attempt is also being made in a very unconstitutional way. I'm going to look at those inconsequential remarks, kind of, that they said from the science department. In fact, this is a very important observation. It says that the rule on the non-variability of legislation governing the activity of an investor under a product distribution agreement is excluded from part one of the first article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce as a result of taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act of 23 September 2010 on the amendment of certain legislative acts relating to distribution agreements. The reason is that these provisions establish possible application to these relations of acts of law and after they have ceased to be valid, which does not correspond to defined articles 58 and 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine to the principles of the law at the time. Article 94 establishes the Constitution that the law takes effect 10 days from the date of its official publication and that the law does not provide otherwise. Moreover, according to the position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine expressed in a number of its decisions, laws and other legal acts generally recognized do not have a retroactive effect in time. This principle is also enshrined in the first part of article 58 of the Constitution of Ukraine, where the legal act at the time has to be understood so that it begins from the moment it becomes effective and is applied with a loss of validity, i.e. before.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u220	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u221	So it's applying that law, which, or another legal act, when they came in, or where they happened. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of what I have just said, given the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, given the complex veto imposed by the President, I believe that this law cannot be upheld as one that will contribute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u222	Thank you. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u223	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Well, I signed up against just to say that the faction of the U.K. Company and I are personally like a half-wit, which is the region where oil and gas are most extracted, against what is happening in the oil and gas sector. We're practically going a colonial way today, ruthlessly exploiting our navels. Of course, it is necessary to look at the initiative of the national deputy Horoshkewicz, and to say that the maximum that can be done is with great difficulty to support the bill in the first reading. Next. I would like to draw our attention to the following things today. First, the rents we have in Ukraine. They're extremely low, they're 4 times smaller than in Russia, and they're smaller than in other countries of Europe that we're in the same direction and where we want to go. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the rent payments go to the state budget of Ukraine, and the areas in which they are mined have virtually nothing to do with the oil, gas and condensate areas of the Poltava region. And if, according to the 2010 census, Poland sent or counted 1.7 billion dollars to the State budget, Poland and the territorial communities believe that 10 percent of these payments should remain in place for the development of the region itself and to mitigate the technological impact on the environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt as a basis the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Contracts for Distribution of Produce. [[on State guarantees]] [[Registration number 7402]] At the same time, honourable colleagues, I draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority believes that the bill needs more detailed work. Yes, there is a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft law. [[13:27:58]] For 249 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on the requirements for persons admitted to the service of the police]] [[Registration number 6418]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Wooden Vasil Timofiyovich, co-rapporteur – head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Grissak Vasil Mikolayovich. The proposal from the author is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:28:45]] For 222 Decision taken. Please, Vasil Timothyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, the draft law is being prepared to determine the circle of persons who have the right to serve in the militia by establishing appropriate requirements for applicants for service. Clearly, those taking part in the service should meet a number of requirements regarding age, education, certain personal, business, and moral qualities, health. I believe it is necessary to make changes to article 17 of the Ukrainian Police Act, which I have proposed for the following reasons. In addition to the requirements laid down in article 17 of the Act, it is stipulated that persons who have reached the age of 18 are admitted to the service of internal affairs bodies, except in cases provided for by law. In this case, the act lays down additional requirements that are not provided for by law. As a result, these requirements require legislative consolidation. The stability of the staff is an important principle in organizing effective police work. However, from the information I received, I know that today the problem of police personnel security is very acute. According to statistics, most police officers serve in the police for a small period of time, 1-2 years. These facts are due to many factors, so it is necessary to supplement the Ukrainian Police Act with a standard that obliges the graduates of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who have received education at the expense of the State budget, to work in the police departments on a mission. Militia workers must personally adhere to the requirements of the law, so I believe that it is necessary to expand the circle of persons who cannot be admitted to the service of the police in connection with their commission in the past. Thus, the new edition provides that individuals who were former.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u226	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u227	to criminal responsibility, they can't be police officers. In addition, the bill establishes admission to the civilian militias, who are exempt from military service or are under military obligation in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to complete general education as a minimum level of education, and to speak the national language. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u228	Thank you. The committee will be headed by the committee on the legislative protection of the activities of Vasil Mikolaiovich Gritsak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u229	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! A committee on law enforcement law enforcement was discussed by the Ukrainian People's Deputy of the Wooden People's Republic of Ukraine by a draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on the requirements for persons admitted to the service of the police]] The purpose of the bill is to determine the number of persons who have the right to serve in the police by establishing appropriate requirements for applicants for the service. The draft law proposes to introduce article 17 of the Police Act in a new edition, providing for a number of additional requirements to be met by citizens who are admitted to the service of the militia. Other requirements include age, education, military service, language, and so forth. It is incumbent upon the graduates of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who have received education at the expense of the state budget, to work in police departments in the direction and order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill also establishes the requirement that persons who had previously been criminalized for committing crimes other than those acquitted by the courts could not be admitted to the service of the police. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, has made their remarks, but they believe that the bill can be supported. The Ministry of Justice also made proposals that could be taken into account before the second reading. The Committee believes that it is time at the legislative level to establish a clearer requirement for candidates to serve in the internal affairs bodies of Ukraine. As a result of the bill's discussion, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, shall we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] I see, yes, we'll discuss it. Dear colleagues, there is such a proposal, perhaps it has been agreed upon, to consider the issues, to complete the consideration of the issues that are scheduled for today, and to work with the committees for the evening session. If you don't mind, we, my dear fellows, would continue the morning session until the issue is resolved, not so many of them left. Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up for the discussion. We'll vote when they're ready. I made an offer first. Sign up for the discussion. And then, when we're done with the question, let's be clear about the solution. Paul Sulkowski. Then there's Oleg Zarubinsky. Then there's Carmazine. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u231	Dear colleagues! I propose to support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u232	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, please, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u233	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Frankly, in our view, all the proposals in this bill are absolutely right. I know there's some criticism from the Science and Technology Department, from the Henprosecutor's office. But what is crystallized if you move away from the prominent interests? It's a very simple thing to crystallize. That people who practice law and order, as the anecdote says, should have a flawless biography in order. If the man of his day was a criminal, if the court didn't justify it, that is, she was a de facto, de jure criminal, I'm very curious to see how this man would then carry out the rule of law. By the way, there's a lot of teachers here, and you know, not so long ago, I don't know about statistics right now, but there have been such studies that, you know, where are the biggest violations, which colleges have there been? Legal. Most of the crimes and offences were committed among all the other students in all the faculties in the law school. Yeah, well, I guess we knew what to do. So I think this proposal is absolutely right. One second. At first glance, he only has a questionable character. Is there a person who has been fully trained at the expense of the State? And notice that in militia colleges, not only does the state pay for education, for the organization of education, and for most of the time, for food, for housing, and so on. So a person, in principle, is found, during his studies in the military U.S., higher, in state custody. After that, without what they say, conscience simply does not come to the workplace or, after working a year, comes from this work, the question arises: What is the state stupid or what? The state takes on such functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u234	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u235	There is absolutely no guarantee that this person will work for what he has been taught. Well, I think it's the right bill and it's worth supporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u236	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u237	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm going to support this bill in the first reading, but I'd like to point out some things that we have to warn, including the militia, from some illegal things. The IMF is now asking about the creation of a unit to combat organized crime in the fight against extremism, with 12 people in each area. Think about it, please! The detection of crimes, especially serious and serious crimes, has declined nearly double, revealing. I was ashamed to read yesterday’s address and to accept a person from Cherkaszczina who works in the Goldenwater region as a gang, a district attorney, and a district attorney. I'm ashamed that now we're creating a gendarmerie in virtually every area. Why? For political execution? These same functions, extremism, terrorism, are in the BSS. Because of this, it's very important that we are now moving away from serving in the ranks of the military and the superiors, and we're anchoring this in the Police Act. At the same time, I firmly oppose the fact that we exclude candidates from the service of the police, women. Since they do not serve in the full - time ministry, they are not in the supply of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Yet this is now 12 percent of the police officers who have been tested. And I think in the future this percentage is going to go up and up. As a result, warnings should be made about this and in terms of gender equality, as they say today, and in fact in terms of the Constitution, given that everyone has the same rights. Because of this, I think women have to be written separately because they're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u238	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u239	I'll finish. They don't fit in this model that's written here. As a result, I ask you to support me in my first reading, but I must insist on what would have been written and what not to eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u240	Sergei Sass, microphone. Bullying later. Roman's mortgage, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u241	Of course, the faction supports and insists that today it is a very urgent bill to amend article 17 of the Police Act. Why? Because today there are many, and in fact a huge number, cases of internal affairs that are being infiltrated by criminal authorities, with more than one, more than two, and more prosecutions, using virtually internal organs to carry out their criminal activities. In addition, when we claim that the authorities today create favourable conditions for the conversion of law enforcement agencies into a gendarmerie for persecution and the opposition forces of non-members, today, more than ever, it is necessary to raise the issue of the purity of the ranks of the militia. So, of course, we insist that this law be adopted without delay. We insist that, in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u242	Finish up, please. Complete your thinking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u243	Profile committees. First of all, such as in the fight against organized corruption and crime, he took control of the issue of the purity of lava in internal affairs and raised questions, including why, in an anti-constitutional way, the internal affairs department is now being formed in the areas of extremism. It's not relevant to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it's the function of the Ukrainian Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u244	Thank you. Gennady Zdirko, please the MP's "Reforms for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u245	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. MPs for Reforms for the Future, Mikolayev, Zadirko. In my opinion, the Supreme Council owed the police, and today we are doing a good job. Our parliamentary group will support this bill. The point is, unlike the bills that we're going to be considering with regard to pension money, this bill just benefits and adds stability to the ranks of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We will support this bill. These are the right suggestions for the police not to go to the police in any way who have problems with the law. And that's a pretty good offer. We know that today, in order to get an education, a lot of police are paying for money, legal education, police education. And here, people who have received police education at the expense of their budget are also wise not to work for the state in any way. And the Supreme Council decides this issue with a bill, it's very right and very right. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u246	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u247	Our parliamentary group supports this bill as a very good and very much in need of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u248	Thank you. Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u249	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to remind you that two hours ago we had just voted on the 8210 bill, which had just been provided for all the questions concerning the training of professionals. With regard to the intrusion into the internal affairs of the elements before the courts, with inclinations, so to speak, criminal and so forth, all of these issues have been settled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since August 1991. And here's one of the deputy heads of the department of General Hide, and he can explain to you that even today, nowhere in the internal affairs department is there a mass of cleaning problems, as it were, that the elements that violate the rule of law are being carried out at an extremely high level. As far as extremism is concerned. I'd like to say this, dear colleagues. It's literally another 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u250	Complete your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u251	Today, appeals to the police have increased by 3 million per year, courts are looking at 9 million cases in a year, like China's courts, and prosecutors' offices have increased by half a million. What does this talk about? So society is trying to solve all its problems through law enforcement, when it's going to have to solve them because of a lot of other socio-economic issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u252	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on the requirements for persons admitted to the service of the police]] [[Registration number 6418]] The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Please vote. [[13:45:24]] For 278 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I now put to the vote the proposal that you were almost unanimously supported to continue the morning session until the completion of the consideration of the issues scheduled for Thursday, June 2, and the time of the evening session to devote to work on committees and factions. Please support this proposal. [[13:46:00]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Police Act on the improvement of the internal affairs human resources system is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of Malishev Vladimir Stepanovic's activities. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:46:39]] For 206 Decision taken. Please report. Dear colleagues. The reporter was with us. The committee proposes that the subject be reinstated from the right of legislative initiative for further development. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to reject the bill. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. [[Registration number 7547]] Please vote. [[13:47:21]] For 256 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee and the authors of the bill propose to postpone consideration of the draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in order to reconcile positions both in the Committee and in the Cabinet. Is there no objection? None. The same applies to draft law, registration number 8303. Is there no objection? None. Let's put it down. The same applies to draft law registration number 7224. Is there no objection? None. I am now announcing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on the protection of the rights of the child to freedom of movement]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. Coroner is the head of the committee's committee on legal policy, Elina Viktorovn Shishkin. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:48:41]] For 218. Decision taken. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, then sign up for the discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, if you do. Then I'm going to put a motion for withdrawal on the vote. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, so I take it, respectable colleagues, come on, come on, either. I don't see the problem here, we have a positive conclusion and a committee, and the positive conclusion is science and expertise, we could take it as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] If there's no objection, let's get the document we need, and we'll take it, and that's it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft law. I'm asking you to vote on the basis. [[Registration number 7522]] [[13:49:43]] For-69 The bill was rejected. So let's put it this way: let's vote again, let's re-read it so that we don't burn the bill. I propose a second suggestion: to send the bill for re-reading. Please be supportive, Your Honor. Please vote for the re-reading. [[13:50:21]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Let us make one more suggestion: The return of the subject to the right of a legislative initiative for further development. Please be supportive. [[13:50:44]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Sergei Sass, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u253	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, do you see what's going on in the hall? I want to draw your attention to some sort of preparation of the agenda. Today, more than ten drafts have been removed from the agenda. The author of the legislative initiative on the bill, which was about to be considered, calculated that the entire list of bills would be considered and that is why he planned his time in this way. You look at that. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the following: you had no right to bring this bill before you because the procedure provides for a report, a report, a report, a discussion, and only then a decision is taken. So you put the bill absolutely wrong without a report or a report. And the next thing you know, Valery Mikhailovich, we have a very expensive plenary time, three minutes worth up to 20,000 dollars. What are we doing? What, we have nothing to consider that we're canceling the evening session? We've got thousands of drafts pending, and we've still got this session.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u254	Yes, I do. Count it, dear fellows. Please, calm down! So let's make this happen: the bills are still not going to be taken off the table, just by the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take it out and carry it out, because first they're proposed to include it, and then when there's no support. I understand all these points, but at the same time, in this case, all the official references, letters from the committees and from the drafters were. And I'm offering our colleagues a job at work. That's it. That's why I'm sorry. [[Applause]] It's a shame, dear colleagues, it's a pity that this bill just got burned, but it's a mood in the hall. So, dear colleagues, let's now consider the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws, registration number 6144. [[for making individual incomes]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Suškević Valeriy Mihajlovich. Coroner is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:53:30.]] For 202 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Suškević Valeriy Mihajlovich. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u255	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Suškević The draft Law 6144 was submitted to me for the purpose of settling relations with regard to seeking non-State social assistance, which is intended for disabled persons from childhood and children with disabilities. Practically the only source of income that today has to do with a disabled person may be cases where there is an attraction in relation to him. That's why I drafted this bill, but by supporting the concept of the bill as our committee, the Committee on Pensioners and Disabled Persons, the Main Committee on Justice, other committees and offices, including the executive branch, the Supreme Court and other institutions, there was a situation that, after I had written this law, there had been changes in the drafting of the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement. And in fact, today, the rules that I've been introduced into the law are not in line with what's going on in this law on executive implementation. In fact, the technical situation has arisen, so today it is necessary, by procedure, to work on me as the author of the bill and the committee in the new edition, which will meet the law on executive conduct, to simply send this bill for further work. And what's interesting is this unusual situation, and I'm asking you as the author of the bill to send it for further processing so that you can bring it in and harmonize it with the existing legislation that changed today after I wrote the law. Thank you. And I would like to support you by sending this bill for further processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u256	Please, Pisarenko. Is it? None. Who wants to share in the discussion? You don't? Then I propose: the conclusion of the committee and the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. We're voting on the headings for pre-processing. [[13:56:19]] For 266 Bill number 6144 is aimed at further development. The draft Law on Refugees and Persons requiring additional or temporary protection is being considered. [[Registration number 7252]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:56:56]] For-198 Offer supported. First Deputy Justice Minister Jemelyanova Inna Ivanovna reports, from the committee to prepare Gnatkewicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u257	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, you will see a new edition of the Refugees and Those Who Need Additional or Temporary Protection Act. The first edition of the Ukrainian Refugee Act was adopted in Ukraine in 1993, the next edition in 2001. And what I'm saying is that those two laws met fully at the time the requirements of the relevant 1951 Refugee Protection Convention. But international law is not in place and is developing. During this period, a number of resolutions were adopted in accordance with the UNHCR Committee, which adopted a number of conclusions, in particular under numbers 19 and 22, which provides for an extension of the guarantees of the rights of persons to receive and to receive additional and temporary protection. At the same time, the Council of Europe also adopted a number of international legal instruments, including on 3 May 2000, the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers approved recommendation No. 9 on temporary protection. These acts of international law require that we adopt the Refugee Law perfectly in the new edition and regulate the legal status of those who, under international law, will not have refugee status, but will also need the protection of the country to which they have arrived, to receive assistance in the form of additional protection or in the form of temporary protection. Such a person also refers to those who have faced the risk of torture or inhumane or who are demeaning the dignity of treatment or punishment in their country of origin. Or such a person was forced to flee or stay outside his country of origin as a result of threats to his life, security, or freedom for reasons of disorderly violence resulting from situations such as military conflicts. Or for other reasons that are recognized by the law of the country or by international law and by the practice of States parties to the convention when a person cannot be returned.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u258	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u259	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to say that the adoption of this law is essential for Ukraine to implement its visa-free regime plan. You know that this plan of action for liberalisation with the European Union of visa regimes for Ukraine was approved by the President's decree. I very much ask, honourable national MPs, to adopt this draft law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u260	Thank you, Inno Ivanovna. The head of the Subcommittee on Human Rights and National Minorities and International Relations is Mr. Gnutkevich Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u261	Dear colleagues! In fact, in her last phrase, the first deputy minister of justice showed why the bill was adopted so urgently. Actually, he was only on our committee yesterday. A slight contradiction. The chief expert office, based on what it has on it, has a lot of small and sometimes not very small, but a little bit thicker, resulting in a recommendation from the expert department of the date for the work of the Cabinet of Ministers. Nevertheless, after a lengthy and very thorough discussion, our committee made a different decision, decided to recommend it as a basis. In conclusion, I, my distinguished colleagues, would like to say that both in the decision of the committee itself and in the position of the expert board reflect, again, two contradictions. This is one of them. The first is the European trend towards the liberalisation of migration legislation. Europe loves liberalisation by building on human rights. And our society, seeing some of the realities, the practices that have been, and what is happening in the world now, especially in North Africa, and understanding the great influx of refugees who are going to be asking for shelter in us. Well, there's ambiguity about this position and we don't want to liberalize it very much. And let us decide with you. Well, I want to tell you that, on average, in Ukraine, we're looking at 2,000 applications per year for refugees, well, who are asking for that status. But only about 10-11 percent of the commission gives this right so we have to have clear criteria. These are the criteria in this bill. I also have to remind you that the main refugees were still going, from the Middle East: Afghanistan, Pakistan. And there's another problem, and I want to stress it, even though it's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u262	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u263	says that there is no special need for financial expenses. And it turns out to be the right thing to do. Because for this number that's now asking, let's say 4,000, we need shelters. And they need five, and that's 150 million, and they demand that shelters be good. So I was in Germany, visiting these shelters in these prisons, and a lot of our people would like to sit there, normal prisons. They demand certain social benefits for themselves, so it will certainly be necessary. Make your decisions, fellow believers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u264	Thank you. Yeah, who but Popescu? Sign up then. Please, Bully. After him, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u265	Thank you. Please give Valery to Kamchatny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u266	Stone microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u267	Kamchatten, the Reform Group for the Future. Dear friends, I would like to approach this problem from a rather unexpected point of view. We are all in great debt to the refugees, because they are people who, because of the circumstances of life, are in a difficult situation. This year is announced by the year of Freetof Nansen, whom we know as the great polarist. But he was a great humanist, a great philanthropist who saved lives in his day, relieved the fate of many refugees by introducing an idea called the Nansen passport. And I think the support of this bill will be a tribute to the memory of this great philanthropist, this great humanist, 150th anniversary of this year. Our group proposes to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u268	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u269	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The great colleagues, the adoption of this law, will help to improve legislation on refugees, by taking into account the migration documents adopted by the Council of Europe and the European Union. Ukraine’s continued international commitment to human rights In particular, the provisions of the 1957 Convention on the Status of Refugees and the 1967 Protocol on the Status of Refugees and the introduction in Ukraine of institutions for auxiliary and temporary protection, which is part of the integration of Ukraine into the European Union in the field of migration. But it will facilitate the liberalisation of the visa-free regime between the European Union and Ukraine. And despite the fact that some comments were made, all of them can be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. But I would like to point out that if we adopt this bill as a basis today, it will be our signal to the European Union that we are ready to continue negotiations on the liberalisation of the visa-free regime between the European Union and Ukraine. Therefore, the Party of Regions will vote in favour of this by carrying out its electoral programme and political programme, as this brings us closer to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u270	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u271	Vladimir Karpuk. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, of course, the fact that further legislation has been developed on refugees and persons in need of additional or temporary protection is commendable. And as always, we're trying very hard to look good in front of Europe, a strange country. In our country, all conditions are created by the adoption of the Tax Code, the Code of Budgets, amendments to the law on the judiciary, such that our people are forced to leave our country. And the number of people abroad is about, according to different data from 5 to 7 million people. At the same time, we want to liberalize our legislation so much that, in fact, our country becomes an advocate for other nations. And the statistics quoted in both the press and today from this rostrum show that too many people from both South Asia and the East, and so on. And there are preconditions, and I want to go back to the recent events that took place in France and between Italy, the diplomatic conflict when a train from Italy was being sent with refugees from Tunisia. You remember how intense it is. And now legislation is being reviewed in France and Germany and Italy and in other countries with regard to refugees and such persons. And that's why we need to take more care of our citizens. Of course, that large number of flaws, the terminology notes that are said by scientific and scientific authorities, and that confirm the discussion in the room, once again confirms that this law needs to be amended. My colleague, Stanislaw Arzvitin, recalls, recently in the village of Kolocava, where he came from, his monument was opened to the workers. During the years of independence abroad, 79 people died, and our people died in one village.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u272	Yeah. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u273	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I wasn't going to speak, and the committee was very well informed by the head of the refugee subcommittee, but the final speech may just be disorienting people, disorienting MPs. The situation is not at all as described. The situation is that just before this bill, do you know who has the most claim? Representative of the High Commissioner for Refugees of the Regional Office for Ukraine and Belarus and Moldova. And it's not random. It is this bill that is considered extremely hard on refugees in the context of providing them with additional services that are hard. And from us, the High Commissioner, let's say, has claims to us about what we need to know not to paralyze the situation. So to talk about what this bill makes Ukraine a loner, well, it just doesn't fit the reality. To that end, we need to look at all the conclusions and the bill itself in detail. Although there were many claims at the committee’s meeting and apparently there were, we advised him only on the basis of his acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u274	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u275	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! The faction of the Company of Ukraine has its questions before this draft law. But we will vote on it in the first reading. But I want to talk to my colleagues about one very interesting thing. We are not simply dealing with the problems that someone is creating for us. But it is even more difficult to cope with the problems we create for ourselves. I also mean voting on the readmission document, where we are said to have run ahead of us. I mean, the situation that we've created for everyone, for all overseas countries, the visa-free regime, and today we're saying, we're not going to meet. So who's going to meet us, as we say in front of the steamboat, we've created a visa-free regime for everyone, and now we're waiting for someone to answer us. So I want to talk to my colleagues. Let's just say that when we make decisions, especially those that have international resonance, international significance, we're going to think about it first and then we're going to do it. And to realize that every decision has a positive and a negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Refugee and Temporary Protection Act, and I would like to remind you that the Committee is proposing to adopt as a basis and the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, indeed, that we should be sent for work. [[Registration number 7252]] [[14:10:48]] For 281 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee has requested the Supreme Council of Ukraine to defer its consideration of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the jurisdiction of the courts of the courts of law for the participation of the bodies of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7143]] Is there no objection? None. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of creditors and consumers of financial services (registration number 7351) has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking's Tax and Customs Policy Committee. And from the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] This proposal is, but here it may be, it is. And the committee will report to the Homutinnik. At the same time, there was an offer to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. And it is, and it is. She is. [[14:12:06]] For 213 Decision taken, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u277	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! In this current bill, with a view to protecting the interests and rights of consumers of financial services, investors of banks and financial institutions, reducing the risks of the financial system, a number of important changes are proposed in the Civil, Economic, Process, Criminal and Housing Codes of Ukraine, as well as in the laws of Ukraine entitled "For Banks and Banking Activities", "For Mortgage", "For Restoration of Payability of the Debtor or Recognition of Its bankruptcy", "For Securing Creditors' Claims and Load Registration" "For Consumer Rights". In its essence, the bill is balanced in terms of protection for both consumers of financial services and creditors, i.e. financial institutions. Its aim is to help solve the number problems that exist between borrowers, bank customers, and between financial institutions themselves, particularly through restructuring. The bill has the following provisions regarding the protection of consumer rights. It is prohibited by law to grant consumer loans in foreign currency in Ukraine, and the lender is prohibited to establish in a consumer credit agreement any assembly, interest, commission, payment for actions that are not serviced in a defined law. The consumer credit agreement should contain a detailed breakdown of the total cost of credit for the consumer; excludes the provision of article 11 of the Consumer Rights Act, which allows the interest rate to change, i.e. it should be constant; prohibits the creditor from refusing the consumer to accept the payment when the consumer's credit is repaid on a timely basis, and establishes that a restructuring of the debt, i.e. the restructuring of the problem loans, can be carried out at a later date between the financial institution and the client of the bank, and introduces a series of regulations that regulate the restructuring, in particular, is limited to 35 per cent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u278	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u279	The amount of payments in debt service is 35 percent of the total income of the family for protection purposes, primarily the population that handles the loans. There are positive conclusions on this bill, both from the National Bank of Ukraine and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Cabinet of Ministers. I ask my colleagues to support this important bill for consumers of financial services and banks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u280	Thank you, too. From the committee is the head of the Vitaly Hometicnik Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u281	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, discussed draft law 7351 under the authority of the People’s Deputies of Poluniev, Voropeyev, and Arjevetina. In fact, we're already looking at this project for the second time because the first time we looked at the same project, it didn't find support in the hall, because the bill wasn't sufficiently balanced between creditors and consumers. More items and positions concerned the protection of creditors' rights. And now the national MPs, after drafting this bill, have laid down a series of substantive rules that also apply to the protection of consumers' rights to financial services. I'm literally very specific about what consumer rights are being added. The granting of consumer loans in foreign currency in Ukraine is prohibited by law. The creditor is forbidden to establish in a consumer credit agreement any congregation, interest, commission, payment, etc. for actions that are not serviced in a defined law. The consumer credit agreement should include a detailed breakdown of the consumer’s aggregate credit value, taking into account all additional expenses, such as registration services, notaries, insurers, appraisers, and so on. The creditor is prohibited from refusing the consumer to accept payment for the early repayment of the consumer’s loan. It is established that the lender has the right to carry out a debt restructuring with the consumer. With regard to the protection of creditors' rights, in principle, all the same rights of creditors that have been in the past before the draft law remain. So, given what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u282	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u283	Now this project is, indeed, balanced between the interests of consumers and creditors, is the agreement of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the positive conclusion of the scientific and expert management and the conclusion of the committee, the support of this bill and the adoption of it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u284	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, please sign up for this discussion. Yes, Vladimir Karpuk is transferring the right to speak to Stanislav Arzevetin. Then Paul the Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u285	Ladies and gentlemen, I am also a co-author of this law. And you know, in order to restore trust between financial institutions and customers, you and I have to write clear rules of conduct that will arise if there's a problem with the return of the loan or the problem of the return of the deposit. Today, bankers fantasize, today fantasize about lenders, debtors, and today, court officials fantasize. This legislation, which introduces various amendments into 18 laws, regulates the relationship that is to be made. Which they should know when they're coming. What are the innovations? First of all, foreign exchange lending is prohibited, consumer of monetary credit. Secondly, loans will only be paid for the actual use. If there's a long-term return. Next. Interest rates are fixed by contract, and they can only be changed by terms, by indices that are written and signed on both sides. The provision of information to third parties will now be transmitted only with the consent of the parties. The explicit procedures for drawing a retraction that will be made on the basis of the Notaryus ’ inscription are clearly prescribed by the Moratorium Rules. And in carrying out the moratorium, we legally established a ban on the withdrawal, the illegal withdrawal of assets from the holding of the enterprise during the moratorium. We've prescribed a mechanism for restructuring. And now, if the debtor is in good faith to execute the restructuring agreement, the bank is entitled to 0.5 percent of the debt, the unliquidated debt to the client and the gross cost. The total amount of these debts should not exceed 35 percent of the citizen’s monthly income. And a lot of other money. So there is usually an offer in the first reading to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u286	Paul Mokchan, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u287	This is a very complex subject for analysis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u288	Asshole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u289	MPs for Reforms for the Future, Mikolayev, Zadirko. Indeed, a bill is needed, it improves regulation and increases the protection of those who have taken credit and the banks who have granted loans. Because not settling this issue under the conditions of the world crisis that we have experienced has actually brought even some social tension in society. And today, this bill protects consumers' rights, clearly lays out the rules of the game on this market, and makes it possible, clearly legislatively, to address the issue of the timely return of credit. And also, if there are any problems with the repayment of the loan, then there is a possibility of restructuring. And this really isn't the novelty of a particular bank there anymore, it's actually a legislatively settled issue. Our parliamentary group will certainly support this bill, because this is the bill that is needed in the financial market today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u290	Andrew Pavlovsky. Behind him is Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u291	Andrew Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Fathership”. Honourable compatriots, as noted by the authors of this bill, are primarily written to protect the interests and rights of creditors, financial institutions, and large financial capital. And on the contrary, this simplifies to the procedure of removing mortgage assets, the real estate of our citizens who are in financial trouble, and sometimes even contracts, we know, most of them are written unilaterally, for the sake of a financial institution alone, and the lenders themselves are actually ineligible and so under the existing legislation before the financial institutions. So, I think from this point of view, the law is antisocial, you can't support it. And I'm surprised that the previous speakers, who consider themselves to be a European socialist, support this law, which is written for the sake of a major financial capital. I therefore propose not to support the prescribed bill, because the legislation that is now there is enough to resolve the conflict situations between the creditor and the debtor. And not to increase the financial capital position in any way or in any way, the more it provides for the sale of the right to demand credit contracts. This will result in the debt of our citizens being sold to various bandit structures, and as they dislodge debts from our citizens, we already know. That's why we're also legalizing gang-banging methods. So there's no way that this anti-social law is going to be supported by the faction of the "Paternity" party, and we don't recommend supporting it to others who count themselves left.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u292	Do you think you're left-handed? Sergey Horidenko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u293	Thank you. Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I would like to draw attention to the title of this bill. It's kind of a good name here: to change some of the legislation on the settlement of legal relations between creditors and consumers of financial services. And I have to say that there's some progress here before we go to a meeting, but in large numbers, we have to agree with the previous statement that in general this bill still protects those who will lend these loans and a large bank capital. I would like to draw particular attention to the problem of credit unions today. So who's here today, how do we protect them? And I don't see a mechanism here, on a large scale, how we're going to protect the participants in the Louvno credit union, the Poltashtian Welfare, the Acord and others who've been "involved" in this story, have spent their money chasing large percentages, and now they can't find the extreme, law enforcement agencies are playing not the ones who have given the money that they put into these credit unions, but are playing games for those who have taken and disappeared in an unknown direction, or copied property. I don't see the answer to where to find the person who's going to answer these questions in this. For that kind of thing in this bill. So as much as we can agree on is to send this draft law for further processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u294	Yes, please, a minute, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u295	Dear colleagues, I have a big request. Let's not be ourselves. In his speeches, he disgraced himself and the entire Supreme Council. Read the law that protects the rights of creditors. Who is the creditor? This is the pensioner who was dragged into a credit card company by means of a fraud, and he took his money there. The community has split up, and the main problem now is what? The court cannot establish a successor, and there are people, including Zaporozhye, on the hands of executive sheets without the prospect of execution. What's not clear? On the contrary, this law harmonizes the relationship between creditors, those who give money, and those who receive financial services. Well, there's one more thing. Don't forget, there's a package of operations. I thought that after Stanislav Arjevetin's speech, there would be no more questions. Well, you're on a simple law that regulates exactly the relationship between creditors and the borrower, why are you so many labels. Any other left-wing sexists brought in here?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u296	Question completed. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis in the first reading the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the protection of the rights of creditors and consumers of financial services]] Registration number 7351. [[14:27:13]] For 251 Copy that. Dear colleagues, this is where we clarified Bill 7143. It was an error message asking the committee to move. So let's look at it. There is a proposal to consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the jurisdiction of the courts of commerce with the participation of the bodies of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:28:00]] For 206 Supported. Please, Zarubinsky People's Deputy, prepare for Pritika.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u297	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The proposed bill has been drafted, registered and submitted to the Supreme Council for the purpose of settling the differences arising from the application of the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine, the Master Procedural Code of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on Protection of Economic Competition to determine the subordination of cases in disputes in which one of the parties is the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, its territorial departments. I'm not going to take your attention when I talk about how important it is that all the issues related to the Antimonopoly Committee are legally flawlessly written, given the role it has to play in today's economic environment, as is happening in many countries of the world where the Antimonopoly Committee is a very serious and influential institution. I will just say that today there is a need to define directly in the procedural law the rules of jurisdiction and jurisdiction of cases involving the Antimonopoly Committee bodies resulting from the protection of economic competition and the protection against unfair competition. The decisions of the Antimonopoly Committee’s authorities tend to affect interests, and this, honourable colleagues, understand, not only the applicant and the respondent, but also the operators and consumers, and this is the main thing that they support or can maintain a business relationship with the respondent, whether they compete or can compete with it in one market. I mean, the specificity of public-law disputes with the involvement of such bodies is that they have a civil-law component. So it seems that the ideas proposed in the bill, which regulates the subcommittee, and above all, I think that this committee representative will say, say that the Master Court should do this first, are completely objective, coming out of the present situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u298	Thank you. The Justice Committee is Pritica Dmitry Mikitovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u299	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The purpose of the bill, recently reported by Oleg Zarubinsky, is to resolve the differences that arise when applying the provisions of the Code of Administrative Justice in Ukraine, the Code of Economic Procedure and the Law of Ukraine on Protection of Economic Competition, as part of determining the subordination of cases in disputes in which one of the parties is the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine or its territorial department. With the bill, the author proposes to amend the jurisdiction of the courts of commerce with the participation of the authorities of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee in relation to the protection of economic competition and the protection against unfair competition. This position needs to be supported because the legal relations between the antitrust committee and the operators have signs of an organisational and economic relationship, as provided for in part six of article 3 of the Ukrainian Code of Commerce and Procedure. And the responsibility for violating legislation on the protection of economic or unfair competition is laid down by Ukraine's laws on protection against unfair competition and on the protection of economic competition. With regard to the author's proposal to amend the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee and the Ukrainian Law on Protection against Unfair Competition, in which the word "court" should be replaced by the words "Lord's Court", such a position is challenged by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Because they believe that the concept of "court" in this sense is considered to be an authority of the judiciary that exercises justice in Ukraine, regardless of its specialization. But I am convinced that in preparing this absolutely necessary bill, which will make it clear in the jurisdiction of the administrative and agricultural courts, we are the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u300	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u301	They're working on this bill and we're going to introduce people's deputies to you in the best possible form. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u302	Is there a need to discuss? Vote. I then put to the vote a proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the jurisdiction of the courts of the courts of law with the participation of the bodies of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7143]] Please vote. [[14:33:29]] For 258. Thank you. Adopted in the first reading. Consider the question of re-reading the first reading: the draft Law on the Judicial Assembly. [[Registration number 7530]] Please. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[2:34:05]] For 216 Supported. Please report to Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u303	Dear colleagues, in order not to waste too much time, I will remind you that we have already considered this bill. Last time we got 225 votes, I'm pretty sure we need 226 votes today. If you remember, you and I have decided to change, at last, the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which today replaces the Law on State Customs, and to introduce a judicial assembly that will finally encourage the courts not to stand with an outstretched hand but to work normally. I want to remind you that in some cases we still have a court-martial of 3 bracelets. I think you all realize that even sending a message is not always possible for the parties at the expense of such a judicial congregation. So a colossal work has been done both by the Ministry of Justice and by the people's deputies, a law that has been drafted today, which I ask you to support in order to save the judicial system from what is happening in it today. We need the courts to do justice, not ask the authorities for money for their work. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u304	Yes, thank you. Vitali Homutinnik is from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u305	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The adoption of the Law on the Judicial Congregation requires a legislative settlement of the matter of the administration of the judicial congregation, the payment of which is already provided for by several laws and codes. In particular, such a congregation is provided for in the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine, and the Master Procedural Code of Ukraine. But, for the time being, there is no such legislation. Thus, all these issues are regulated by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on government duty. Therefore, there is a need to replace this decree with legislation. The substance of the bill was thoroughly reported by the author, and the committee recommends that the bill be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u306	Yes, are there willing to discuss? Yes. Besides Carmazin, who else insists? None. Yuri Carmazin, please, two minutes. Oh, Carmazin and Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u307	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! It is clear that there is now a difficult situation in the courts, and it is not just in the courts. It has become a medical institution that violates the requirements of the Constitution and is subject to so - called optimisation. It took place in schools where optimization is also taking place. Under regional optimization, it's called "shortening" schools, FAPs, hospitals, everything else. That's the Law of the Court. In principle, I am the one who needs to be regulated by law, not by decree, but needs a comprehensive approach to all decrees. We have to forget about the decrees at all, because that's against the Constitution. But let's see, what's going on? We are now, how much we raise or lower these salaries. Article 4 opens the law, and you will see that the judicial assembly is his bet on the application of property of 1 percent of the price of the suit. Take a look at what matters are being dealt with. People share a property, either a car or an apartment. Take, look at what 1 percent is. Well, do you adequately take what was and what is there? This is an additional tax, a colossal tax on Ukrainian citizens, which we did not foresee in the Tax Code. What are we, today, doing for people? Because of this, we need serious and financial and economic justification. I am in charge of determining in principle the matter of the judicial congregation but not robbing people like a stick.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u308	Yes, please, Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u309	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, what is the main point of this bill? It's very simple. But unfortunately, neither the reporter nor the co-reporter said that. And the bottom line is that at the expense of our citizens, they want to solve individual issues of organization or even the exercise of justice. It has already been pointed out that there is not even a proper justification for the amount of court fees proposed in the draft legislation. How, then, can this bill be adopted today as the main document. The other one. The bill also proposes to include a judicial assembly in the State budget of Ukraine and to focus on ensuring the enforcement of justice, strengthening the substantive and technical base of judges. This is due to the fact that, according to the current decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on government duties, government duties are included in the local budgets only on a case-by-case basis. So all of this goes against the requirements of part two of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is defined exclusively by the State Budget Act of Ukraine, to determine any expenditure incurred by the State on the common needs, size and purpose of these expenses. So you can't put your hand in our citizens' pockets again. So the faction of Communists is not going to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u310	Yes, one minute, Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u311	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Sergey Sas, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Adam Ivanovich, I want to draw your attention and attention to the colleagues in the courtroom that the judicial assembly is a kind of tax and therefore, by introducing it, or by amending it, or by proposing a law on the judicial congregation, we have to go according to tax legislation. Apply changes to the Tax Code. That's the first one. Next. We believe that the introduction of this law will limit, substantially, the right of our citizens to legal protection, limit the right of access to the courts of our citizens. What's more, the situation is to make it clear that the more the judge looks into the case, the more money he has left in order to., it stimulates the trial itself, the larger the case. That's why our faction isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u312	Yeah, I get it. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u313	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Our faction cannot support this bill under such circumstances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u314	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal for acceptance as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the Judicial Assembly. [[Registration number 7530]] [[14:43:14]] For 232 Copy that. And lastly, dear colleagues, questions. At the morning session, you and I discussed Bill 7511, amending some of the Ukrainian laws on regulation of financial services markets. [[second reading]] Please, Homutinnik, about the settlement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u315	Dear colleagues, I'd like to repeat myself briefly. The bill received 45 amendments from national deputies and from the National Bank. Almost all the amendments are taken into account, there's a little bit of 10 proposals out there, because they don't fit the substance of the bill. The committee therefore recommends the adoption of this law in a second reading and in general. This is a government draft law that speaks of regulation of the financial services market and granting certain powers to the regulator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-02-m0.u316	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, who among the national deputies who made the amendments insist on their arguments? None. With your permission, I'm voting on a second reading proposal and the whole Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on regulation of financial services markets. [[Registration number 7511]] Please vote. [[14:44:53]] For 261 Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, the order of the day is exhausted today because we have endured many questions. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. In accordance with our decision, the evening session is not held today. I propose to work on the committees on those bills that need immediate consideration, and we still have a lot of them.
