ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:57]] They registered with 379 national deputies in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, today it is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies: Stanislav Mikhailovich Arzvetin, who was 50 years old. Please welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Levtsun Vladimir Ivanovich, Marmazov Eugenia Vasilovich and Suškevitch Valery Mikhailovich, who also have their birthday today. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I provide an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from May 31 to June 3, 2011. There were five plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 110 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 15 laws and 16 regulations were passed, 17 bills were passed on the basis, 1 bill was sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, 4 bills were converted to the subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, 2 bills were returned to the Committee for further consideration, 38 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law was adopted in a new edition after the committee was redrafted, 1 law was rejected. 160 parliamentary inquiries were announced. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs and groups. Please sign up for the performance. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction. A representative of Kamchatny’s parliamentary group will speak next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u2	Respectable compatriots, respected colleagues! The faction of the Communist Party is extremely concerned about the situation that has arisen around many enterprises, where the unguilty violation of the labour rights of citizens has clearly led to the implementation of the scenario for their destruction with a view to gaining rapid and substantial profits. This is illustrated in particular by the example of the sugar industry. Ukraine, which provided sugar to a vast Soviet country and exported it to dozens of countries at the same time, is artificially transformed into an import-dependent industry that is strategic for the country, which could, as was the case in Soviet Ukraine and in 1991 operated 191 factories, and now only 42, provide decent work and wages to tens of thousands of people, bring billions of rubble to the death of the country, destroy itself in the service of both domestic and international capital, the most barbaric and banditry methods: labour rights violations of mammals, criminal liberties against workers in the protection of their businesses, and to the protection of this lawlessness by militias, prosecutors, courts. A strong example of this is the situation in the Tulchin region of the Vinnick region, where in May this year, as many media reported, there was a conflict at the Kirnassov sugar plant when dozens of imported gangs, armed baseball bats, shovels, brutally beaten people and killed 15 dogs. These are the people who protected their factory. As a result, one person even died — a former electrician of the factory. It is well known that two firms were sold by the owner of the plant, one of which specializes in scrap metal. When they learned of this, the villagers and the workers of the plant were able to protect him. The Communist faction insists on bringing to justice all those responsible for beating people in Kernasovka, as well as on conducting official investigations into the inaction of local prosecutors and the irresponsible conduct of their duties as local police officers. We also believe that it is necessary to consider the legality of the decision of the Tulchin District Court, which has been released from custody by bandits who have beaten people. The Company's faction is drafting a bill on the implementation of privatization treaties, which will be submitted to the Supreme Council on a day-to-day basis. If bandits go after people with beats, it's time to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u4	If bandits go after people with beats, it's time to answer them properly. People's injustice is a payout for silence. Communists require the Government to protect citizens whose labour rights are violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u5	Thank you. Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future. The next will be Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Once again, our MP group wants to focus on the issue that is the biggest source of passion in Ukrainian society. This is again about the problem of pension reform. Our MP faction has long confirmed and stated that this reform has long matured and matured. It is expected by Ukrainian citizens, it must be achieved, but in parallel with this understanding of the need to implement pension reform, we must state that the new government reform project of the pension system, unfortunately, does not justify social expectations for a socially just and effective pension reform in Ukraine. The lack of professionalism in its preparation only discredits the President of Ukraine and the reform course he has announced. In summary, the pension reform project has a number of serious shortcomings, unfair wage limits, which make pensions the amount of wages that is paid for by a single social contribution, leaving costly pensions for officials who are not available to an average citizen who has worked for a lifetime on production. The increase in retirement age in the way reform is proposed is a violation of the principles of gender equality and does not comply with article 22 of the Constitution. The issue of the filling of the Ukrainian Pension Fund is decided only by employed workers without large capital and, most importantly, without State participation. The experience of Europe in the two-three-blood system of pensions and investment of state and non-state pension funds in infrastructure projects for the development of the country is not taken into account. It is clear that important social projects such as pension reform should be carried out as a well-thought-out and well-verified act of reform aimed at the social protection of citizens within the framework of Ukraine's national security strategy. Therefore, the implementation of the pension reform, according to our faction, cannot be held hostage to external influences. To our conviction, pension reform should begin with developing a concept and putting it out for discussion in society. And only after that, and not after the culinary arrangements, could it be an embodiment in the bill. The concept is based on these principles of principles, age, gender and social status, in the view of the MP's Reforms for the Future, should not affect the purpose of the pension. Retirement should depend on only two factors: the salary received and the length of work. Pension legislation must be transparent, and the Pension Insurance Act is one for all social groups, and dozens of electoral laws regarding the appointment of pensions are unacceptable. The pension fund of Ukraine within the framework of the solidarity system of pension insurance should not have any functions for it: disability payments, benefits, allowances, and so on. The MP's Reform for the Future believes that this bill does not meet the current standards of pension policy and the requirements of our citizens, so it needs to be worked out. And to the end. The parliamentary faction, the Reforms for the Future, is confident that the main factors that really, not on paper, guarantee the success of the pension reform in Ukraine are justice in the distribution of benefits, high wages and pensions, solidarity of the nation, the common interest of Ukrainian citizens in pension reform, the acceptance of social responsibility for changes in the pension system to modern and future generations, freedom of choice, the choice of a citizen of the Ukrainian pension scheme and the state or non-governmental pension fund. Only when such positions are taken into account is the MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction ready to vote in favour of pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u7	May I have your attention, please? Arsenius Yatsenuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next will be the representative of "BUT – "Fatherland" Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u8	Dear Ukrainian people! Ukraine will receive another reform in the near future, a pension reform. It turns out that the government and the authorities are making a pension reform, not for the Ukrainians, but for the people of Ukraine, but for the fulfilment of the requirements of the International Monetary Fund. To get more credit, to steal these loans, and to raise the retirement age for Ukrainian citizens. The whole pension reform is reduced to just one: to raise the retirement age. There is no incentive to provide Ukrainians with jobs to bring about justice in the pension system. The reformers are no longer implementing the first reform in Ukraine. I'll start with tax. After tax reform, 230,000 Ukrainians lost their jobs. Then they introduced budgetary reform. The result of the budget reform was that today one Ukrainian owed a thousand $200 to foreign creditors. Then they went to introduce educational reform. It turns out we have to close schools. And they need to be closed because one student spends as much as 7.5 thousand dollars a year in support of one Ukrainian national deputy, nearly 1 million dollars a year. Then they went to pursue a judicial reform that turned into a mechanism of political opposition. In all, 0.5 percent of the time, Ukrainian courts are serving as vindictive sentences -- 0.5 percent. In the former Soviet Union, it was 10. Now they're in for medical reform. In the context of medical reform, they also want to close the hospital and reduce maintenance, a total of 10 bracelets per patient. It is well - known that the head of the district administration uses 200 bracelets a day. That's how they are reformers! A pension reform is proposed for consideration by the Ukrainian people. A pension reform that will finally rob Ukrainians of their faith in the future. A pension reform that will finally deprive Ukrainians of their right to a decent and honest pension. There is no mention of such reforms in President Yanukovic's programme. I think that the pension reform that will "save," according to the government, only 4 billion dollars over 2 years, is nothing compared to the fact that a government-supervised company called Livella stole 4 billion dollars from the state budget, on duty-free imports, in just six months. And the government has increased its spending by 5 billion in this year’s maintenance! What moral right do you have, after that, to take away pensions from people and take away from people the opportunity to accomplish their lives with dignity?Oh, my God! We demand that the two opposition pension reform bills, which do not increase retirement age and which effectively address the pension system, and increase pensions for 10 million Ukrainians by 334 bracelets. The other one. I understand that this government will not go on its own. I am well aware that the President will not send him. That's why we're talking to the government: retire, we'll provide you with a decent pension in 764 bracelets! Do not torture the people of Ukraine, torture yourself, or torture the Ukrainian state! Get out of here! And there's a pension card.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u9	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, "BUT" faction. Shershun will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u10	Respectable compatriots! A few weeks later, the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ends. Of course, something we managed to do, something we lost, but we'll figure out what we did later. Today, however, the main role of the opposition is right now, while there is time, to sharpen the most current, most sinister and resolve it urgently, so that it will not then be said "for the state to be offensive". And the main thing. We have, as in the entire civilized world, human rights. And in this connection, how many times have you, the ruling coalition, claimed that the opposition, said, voicefully and intentionally accused the authorities of breaking up an independent judicial system, that the courts had become pockety, that the prosecution and the police had turned into orderly penal organs and so forth. The authorities had a unique opportunity to shame the opponents, to disprove these accusations. In Kiev’s appeal court last week, Yulia Timoshenko’s complaint about the groundlessness of a criminal case against her. Everyone has already said about the ingenuity and absurdity of the charges against the leader of the opposition: both leading European actors, and influential international political organizations, and experts, and ordinary Ukrainian citizens, who in the absolute majority called it gross political persecution. Let's add that to it. On February 13, the head of State, at a meeting with American congressmen, made it clear that Timoshenko would not be in prison, and earlier on January on CNN, he strongly stated that he was interested in the justifiable sentence for Julia Timoshenko. Next. The authorised representative of the Henprocuratorium, who was here in the session hall last week, has repeatedly stressed that everything will be decided by the court as an independent branch of government. If he excuses Julia Timoshenko, he will. So what is it? What and who prevented the court from making the right and, above all, the right decision? For if it is not political persecution, there is no criminal in this matter from the standpoint of the law. Everyone already knows that. And Ukraine could give a signal to the world: there is justice in the state, there is a Constitution, there are laws that protect human rights. But the real opportunity to improve the reputation was lost. However, there is still a chance to preserve Ukraine’s face and reputation as a partner of the European Union. It is necessary to simply and clearly implement the resolution of the European Parliament, where the blacks are clearly recorded: firstly, stop criminal persecution as a means of achieving a political goal; secondly, stop selective and improper application of the judicial system; thirdly, the Ukrainian authorities are fully responsible for non-admission of political repression; fourthly, prosecution should not impede the free political activity of opposition leaders and their work with the electorate. That is, we must immediately cancel the nonexistence of Yulia Timoshenko and the excessive treatment of other opposition representatives. So we, as a responsible political force and as a full representative of the country, which has been clearly claiming its own European choice, continue to ratify and implement European norms and standards of life, we clearly demand, not to discuss or review, but to implement without delay the resolution of the most influential international structure that the European Parliament is certainly the European Parliament. And this is not how the case will be brought before the European Court of Human Rights, because its possible and expected decision will result in an irreparable blow to the image not only of the authorities but also of the State itself. We would like to see this statement as an official appeal to the President as a guarantor of the Constitution and to the Attorney General's Office as a guarantor of compliance with and compliance with constitutional norms in our country. Once again, we remind ourselves of the essence of the call to comply with the European Parliament's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u11	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u12	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear head! Dear colleagues! The future of Ukrainian children depends on our actions today, providing them with the right conditions for education, and we will make a great contribution to Ukraine’s prosperity. Thus, the upbringing of a highly educated generation becomes and should become or should not be the nation’s most important task. While measures are being taken to improve education conditions in Ukraine, the level of funding for the material and technical provision of educational institutions remains low. That's why the faction of the People's Party studied this problem quite deeply, for example, in the Plains region. And according to statistics, for several years now, Equality has been the leader of the birth rate of children. And it is these children who will work for the benefit of our country in the future, but now they need a good upbringing under proper conditions. At present, however, the situation is far from desirable in the country, especially in the Plain region. Most educational facilities, especially in rural areas, are located in unsuited facilities. So almost all of them are in disgruntled condition. At the same time, 22 schools are generally considered to be an accident. The worst situation in Ukrainian schools is in sports halls. Some of them are closed because of the danger to life. And some people actually give up rent. In addition, most schools do not have medical offices and a reduced position as a school nurse. Thus, what future education can be considered when children risk their own health in the 21st century in order to acquire knowledge? Of course, school reconstruction programs are being developed in the fields. For example, in the Plains region, the 2011-2015 programme is approved. But the question is, Will it be properly financed? For this year’s school construction in the Plains, nearly 27 million dollars from government and about 9 million dollars from district budgets are planned. But it is not enough to provide all children with high - quality school facilities. So on behalf of the People's Party faction, I'm asking the government: when it distributes additional subsidies for socio-economic development from the State budget, it provides as much as possible for the construction and repair of schools. Because the Plain Region alone needs 110 million dollars to complete the construction of 10 modern educational facilities this year. In the context of this problem, we should also keep in mind the cultural and aesthetic training of our students. Today, a child in a village has access to only one or two school groups. So in order to avoid talking about the degradation of rural youth, we need to take care of the opening of cultural and leisure centers, sports halls, etc. The same is true of continuing schooling. Today, Ukraine is experiencing a lack of professionals in the workplace. And children themselves want to get an education, but not all of them have the opportunity to go to higher education. So this problem would solve the presence of a branched network of vocational and technical schools in areas. And then the state got a lot of experts in the labor market. The National Party's faction hopes that the government will listen to the proposals made because the future of Ukraine is in our hands today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u13	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! A few days later, on 1 July, the Supreme Council will enter into force and the Ukrainian President's Act on the Basis for Preventing and Resisting Corruption in Ukraine. It takes into account the recommendations of authoritative national and international organizations. The fight against corruption has entered a critical phase, effective mechanisms for preventing, detecting, combating and investigating corruption have been put in place, and a foundation has been laid for an even more active fight against the systemic problem that threatens Ukraine's national security and hinders the transformation of the country. The adoption of the State Anti-Corruption Strategy and the consideration by the Supreme Council of new versions of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Police and the new Code of Criminal Procedure will be the next logical steps. It's time to return to the country what was stolen by the unclean in the hands of the officials. This will create an additional, very powerful, source for the increase in salaries and pensions planned for the current year. This was highlighted by the Head of State in his statement at the last meeting of the Anti-Corruption Council, noting that Ukraine lost up to 20 billion grivens annually because of corruption. It should be noted separately that the fight against corruption builds power on the basis of abandonment of the principle of political expediency. There is no division today between us and our villains. Any representative of authority at all its levels who commits a violation of the law will inevitably be punished. This is confirmed by the hundreds of investigations that have already been conducted in criminal courts against officials appointed after the change of power in the country. Yes, some representatives of the old authorities, including those in high positions, were also held accountable. But the facts of the violation of the law are proven by law enforcement officials strictly within the framework of the law. And belonging to the opposition is not an indulgence of responsibility for corruption. The lifting of the corruption tax once and for all is the cornerstone of the success of President Viktor Yanukovic of the modernization of the State. But it is equally important to have a public consensus on the ways, objectives and results of change. We must admit that we are still losing ourselves on this issue. The authorities'efforts to engage in dialogue with society are clearly insufficient, which has led to the rejection of the proposed initiatives by a large part of our people. In Ukraine, there are fundamental changes in sensitive areas such as pensions, medicine, education, land relations, housing and utilities, business facilitation and much more. It is very important to explain to people that the many problems that exist have been preserved for decades. This would inevitably lead to the destruction of the very foundations of the country's life. Today, reforms are no longer needed simply to preserve the country's competitiveness. In large part, only successful modernization will enable our State to maintain its full sovereignty, including in determining its foreign policy course. Only the strong were considered in the world at all times. The article will only be stronger if reforms are carried out. We see negotiations with the Russian side on establishing a fair price for gas for Ukraine are difficult. We have faced the need to solve two problems at the same time. Correct the mistakes of the predecessors and rebuild the oil and gas industry. This situation has led not only to the actions of the previous authority, which has been signed under cable conditions for us to supply fuel, but also to the non-reformation of the Ukrainian fuel and energy complex. Dear colleagues! In the process of transforming the country, it is essential to maintain public tranquillity. At a meeting of the Council of the Regions in Yalta, Viktor Janukovic strongly stated that political radicalism was unacceptable as a direct threat to the collapse of modernization and the way to confront society. The best nutritional environment for radicalism is the social problems that have accumulated in Ukraine, mainly in the last five years. And it is only through a real fight against corruption, raising the standard of living of the people, and honest dialogue with people that can take root from the radicals'feet. In advance, on 22 June, according to a decision of the Supreme Council, the country will now observe a minute of silence on that day for the memory of the millions who have died in the years of the Great Homeland War.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u16	It is not possible to make this date an occasion for another disgrace to Ukraine in front of the entire civilized world. All the political forces, the central local authority, the law enforcement authorities have an obligation to learn from the May 9 event in Lviv and to prevent our ship from being launched. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the factions and groups have been completed. For proposals that require an appropriate response from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask the secretariat to prepare an assignment. Dear National Deputies, we turn to Tuesday’s scheduled issues, June 14. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of a series of bills. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act. [[on national security]] [[Registration numbers 8468, 8468-1]] Please vote. [[10:30:41.]] For 276 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Law on the State Budget 2011. [[on the social performance of the budget]] [[Registration number 8654]] Please vote. So when we look at it, we'll discuss it on a full-time basis. [[10:31:16]] For 237 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on the characteristics of the conversion of municipal unit enterprises that operate in the field of central water-, heating and water-water management, into households. [[Registration number 8356]] Please vote. [[10:31:53]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Well, get ready and then we'll get back to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Daily Draft Law on Ukraine's Financial System in a special period. [[Registration number 8442]] Please vote. [[10:32:28]] For 255 Decision taken. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 is put to the vote. [[on International Audit Accounts]] [[Registration number 8580]] Please vote. [[10:33:01]] For 256 Decision taken. He who works works works there. Please check the secretariat where the button does not work. Dear colleagues, there is a motion for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Universal Government Program on Drinking Water of Ukraine for 2006-2020. [[Registration number 8511]] Please vote. [[10:33:46]] For 290 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the alienation of property of economic operators. [[Registration number 8441]] Please vote. [[10:34:18]] For 254 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for illicit drug, psychotropic substances and precursors, toxic or potent substances or toxic or powerful drugs and drugs. [[Registration number 8357]] Please vote. [[10:35:02]] For 264 Decision taken. The proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Violations of the Law on Protection of Information with Limited Access, which is the property of the State, shall be put to the vote. [[Registration number 8490]] Please vote. [[10:35:39]] For 271 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transport and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms. [[on the production control mechanism containing GMOs]] Registration number 8494. Please vote. [[10:36:20]] For-300 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. [[for mothers with five or more children]] Registration number 8421. Please vote. [[10:36:53]] For 299 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. [[new editor]] Registration number 8570. Please vote. [[10:37:23]] For 295 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[about bringing in with the Ukrainian Nadra Code]] Registration number 8238. Please vote. [[10:37:54]] For 263 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Food Security Act of Ukraine. Registration numbers 8370, 8370-1. Please vote. [[10:38:23]] For 301 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on natural gas and electricity calculations. [[Registration number 8134]] Please vote. [[10:38:53]] For 259. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8507, 8507-1]] Please vote. [[10:39:24]] For 258. Decision taken. I'm voting for a proposal to include in the agenda of the 2011 Ukrainian Proclamation Order the Year of Memory of the Dead in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. [[Registration number 8435]] [[10:39:58]] For 236 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 90th anniversary of the birth of Dmitri Lucenka. [[Registration number 8382]] Please vote. [[10:40:27]] For 303 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the Order amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 150th anniversary of the day of death and the day of burial of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. [[Registration number 8418]] Please vote. [[10:40:59]] For 312 Decision taken. I ask the committee heads for the bills that we have included in the agenda that have not yet been considered on the committees, to hold committee meetings and to consider all the bills. Please, a line. Baby Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. A parliamentary majority has just voted on a bill to amend the budget for international audits. [[8580]] I want the Ukrainian citizens who are listening to the broadcast of the session to report. The goal is to allocate 80 million dollars to foreign lawyers in the State Budget. Well, there is no doubt that the work of the government, both the previous government and today’s government, will likely soon be tested. But to spend 80 million dollars on this when the Law on the Status of Child War is not being implemented, when the depositors of savings don't get their contributions, when people have nothing to pay for the utility, for which to feed and raise children, from the State budget 80 million dollars spent on foreign experts, I think it's irresponsible. Then I have a question: and why do we keep the K.R.A., the D.A., the police, the B.S.A., spending tens of billions of dollars to keep these organs, and we also pay foreign experts. I propose not to consider this bill. Instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u20	You know, you could have listened to the logic of the previous speaker if we had lived in a normal country, with normal opposition, which did not put the realization of corporate interests at the top of the line against the interests of a country that did not go abroad and pour mud on the country, humiliating the State of Ukraine. And since it is indeed necessary to put an end to certain corruption schemes and, since there is no mistrust, it is being discredited to try to discredit our judicial system, it is probably the politically uninvolved structure and the United States of America, the most democratic country in the world, which must be at the heart of this issue. In order for the country's subsequent image not to be entangled in mud. There is nothing above the prestige and image of the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u21	Dear people's deputies, we exchanged thoughts. I would ask you not to criticize the opposition. The opposition is what country we are. And the opposition is like a needle-cylinder treatment: a wheel, and it heals. Let us be calm about this. Dear National MPs, I'm announcing a draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act to shorten the deadline for filing documentation with the Land Authority. Registration number 8387. Here was a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[10:44:43]] For 221 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the State Agency for Land Resources, Kadomski Artem Markovich, co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Omelianovich Denis Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u22	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act to reduce the time-limit for the production of land-use documentation. [[Registration number 8387]] Designed to implement Presidential Decree No. 1118 of 2010 on the decision of the Ukrainian National Security Council of 22 October 2010 on the situation in the area of privatization of state property. The draft Law proposes that part two of article 28 of the Law on Land Administration should be supplemented by a new paragraph according to which the execution of land administration documentation by contractors should be carried out within the time frame provided for in the contract. In doing so, the maximum time limit is set for the filing of the documentation by a land administration which shall not exceed 6 months from the time of the contract. Such changes will contribute to the realization of the constitutional rights of citizens and legal persons on earth, the improvement of the investment climate in Ukraine, and will provide favourable conditions for land development. The implementation of the law does not require additional funding from the budgets of all levels. Taking into account what has been said, I ask you to support the draft in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u23	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Denis Sergiyovich. Yes, you'll be with the committee? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u24	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, at its meeting on 31 May this year, considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on Land Management to shorten the deadline for land administration documentation and defined the following. The specified draft Law provides for a maximum period of six months for the development of land-based documentation. The Committee notes that article 27 of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act, in its existing edition, gives customers the right to determine the duration of the respective work with the land administration when making the relevant contract. That is, the regulation of the setting of deadlines for the production of land-based documentation, according to valid legislation, is carried out in a contractual order by the contracting party and the contractor of such works, based on their specific scope. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes that the bill be specifically sent for work. During the committee’s vote, the votes of its members were equally divided. Therefore, it is not possible for a committee to make an agreed position on the bill at this time. The purpose of its adoption should be determined by the vote of its member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u25	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Yes, please show us the names of the national deputies. Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u26	Basil Krawczuk, Faction "BUT" – "Fathership", Hmelnickin. The "BUT-Paternity" faction will support this bill, it's too important. And you can argue from this point of view that in 2011, there was absolutely no end to the issuance of state-owned land acts by land administrations in 2010, there was no provision in the State budget, and in 2011, there were no funds for free production and issuance of state-owned land acts, as was done by the government of Yulia Timoshenko. Therefore, this bill, which provides for a maximum term of six months from the time of the contract for the production of project documentation, is necessary in order not to keep the documents from falling into traps for years. Well, we know how the executive department now works in executive power. And now, of course, you have to make a little bit of work better by land departments. This bill will be supported by the "BUT – Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u27	Thank you. Anatoly Matvienko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u28	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" block. Dear colleagues, we should welcome the efforts of the State Commission and the government to resolve the issue of the deadlines for the issuance of documentation, because the absence of terms, of course, creates corruption and the desire of many to abuse this absence of a term. And you know that one of the problems with bribes is that there are no such terms. When the committee discussed the problem, the problem arose that there were suitable objects that needed more long - term preparation of documents to prepare them. I don't think that's a reason to send this project to work. We need to accept it in the first reading and perhaps in the second reading prepare appropriate changes as exceptions for individual objects. That is why I propose to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u29	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. Who else insists? Who? Sergei Tereshuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u30	Sergei Tereshuk, People's Party. Dear colleagues! There is now much talk about the completion of land reform and the start of the land market. Several laws on the land market have been prepared. But, dear fellows! Let's agree. Only if we start the land market and are not implemented, unplanned and unplanned by the land structure. Land reform can have the same devastating effect as privatization of large state-owned enterprises. So six months, maybe even a big term. Clearly, there are a number of such inadequacies, perhaps inconsistent articles, in the bill. But the bill needs to be adopted in the first reading. It's time to process and accept it. In order to keep the plans of each inhabited site for a maximum period of one and a half years, for a maximum of one year and a half years. Without this, land reform will not be effective. The People's Party faction will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Nobody insists anymore? Then we'll vote. The thing is, this bill, at first glance, is small. But we have to assume that if the Supreme Council supports this bill, we have to make changes not only to the Land Authority Act but also to the Ukrainian Land Code. And I'm paying attention to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that we need to submit complex bills. Otherwise, we will be in conflict with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 28 of the Land Administration Act to shorten the deadline for filing documentation with the Land Authority, please vote. [[Registration number 8387]] [[10:53:16]] For 298 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, it is proposed that you take note of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of defence land. [[Registration number 6644]] We discussed this issue at the Conciliation Council, and it was about the drafters calling it off. Yeah? Please, Head of the Committee, Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u32	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, this bill should address a rather serious issue: it is the implementation of excessive fixed military property along with the land in which it is located, and it is an essential source of improvement in the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. With a view to resolving these tasks, the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Land Code and the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Lands of Defence, which, at the legislative level, will allow for the establishment of such standards: in the field of land relations, determine the powers of the central authorities of the executive branch to administer military formations; the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is empowered to decide on the change in the target destination of the defence land, their sale, and the establishment of an order of sale of defence land, as well as the allocation of funds received from the sale of land to which the objects of immovable military property are subject to sale, to the State budget of Ukraine with exclusive use of defence in accordance with the costs of the central executive authorities that are subject to the enforcement of the military laws. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded that the bill needed substantial work. The committee decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As co-author of the bill, I ask that the bill be returned to the authors without discussion, because it needs to be changed significantly over the course of the year, but the problem remains, so we need to get it back to work so that we don't violate the article of the Supreme Council Rules, because there is a need to replace the whole articles. Thank you for your attention. Please turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? At the Conciliation Council, we agreed that this bill of the Supreme Council of Ukraine would return to the drafting of the subject of the legislative initiative, but there was a decision of the committee to adopt the bill as a basis. That's why, dear colleagues, I'm in accordance with the Rules, well, there is a decision, and I'm reading it, so I'm going to put a proposal for adoption on the basis of the Rules. Please don't vote, and then we'll vote on a second proposal for a recast. No objections? In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Law, registration number 6644, amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of defence land. [[10:56:50]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. [[10:57:15.]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to consider with you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulations for the production and implementation of sugar. [[concerning the creation of a regulated sugar market]] [[Registration number 7191]] At the same time, there is a request to withdraw this bill as one that has lost its relevance. So I, my dear fellows, will put this motion to a vote, please support it, for the removal from the bill of registration number 7191. Please vote. [[10:58:12]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! Now for the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the moratorium on the privatization of cultural property]] This is registration number 3347. The author of this bill is Bodnar Olga Borisovna. At the same time, on June 10th, she wrote: "In view of the need for further consultations with the deputy factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please postpone consideration of the bill." Is there any other way of thinking? Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. If there's a objection, I'll put this address to the vote, and you'll decide. Please. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone. It's working. Turn on the microphone. Please don't show your mind where it doesn't fit. Please take another card! Volodymyr Alexanderovich, come here. Microphone, please. Please. You're there with your cards, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality fully supports the notion that this bill should not be considered today. It has many different inaccuracies, underwater ones. It's a good idea on its own. Indeed, to prohibit privatization, but if we do intervene now, we will redistribute this property again, you can imagine what we are going to involve in today's religious life of Ukraine and, by the way, not only religious life. Because of this, obviously, this bill still needs to be well worked out, to find everyone in it, to place all the emphasis and points. So let's not look at it today, let's get the author back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u35	Alexander Bondar, committee reporter. Please, your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is that the committee has considered this bill. And it doesn't make any sense to distract him, because we've decided to send the author for work, which is what Mr. Yavorowski says, by the way. And getting it out doesn't make any sense. So we're sending a committee to work on the author, and he's counting on our comments that I'm about to make. It's not going to give us anything, we're just wasting our time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u37	Right. Respectful colleagues need to make decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine because they have been distracted. I'll put to the vote the first one on the postponement of the bill. If you don't support it, we're going to consider it as a simplified procedure and we're going to make a reasonable decision. Is there no objection? I am voting on a motion to postpone the bill in connection with the author’s application. [[Registration number 3347]] Please be sure. [[11:02:09]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the question. I'm voting on a motion to consider it under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:02:32]] For 213 Decision taken. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich, from the committee, head of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I insist that this bill be considered today, because there are obvious things that don't make any sense. On April 5, the committee considered the bill -- and unanimously decided to send the subject of the legislative initiative, the deputy Bodnar -- the bill for further work. But not to send out for work, but to take into account the two principles of the position expressed by the committee. First, there are disagreements in the text of a bill that prohibits the privatization of such objects and at the same time transmits to those who have been used. So with one stroke of feathers, we're banning and we're handing over, so we're doing alienation, that's the first. The other one. It's an incomprehensible concept of "use by religious organizations." I think we should pass it on to everyone who owns these organizations, it's called "restaurant," in fact, and no matter how they're used right now. But only those who had property rights, because there could be rent and anything. And these things can't be decided by transferring and discussing in factions. This should be considered by the National MP, our opinion, the committee, a new bill, and we will gladly accept it. The committee’s brief position is to send the subject of a legislative initiative to work with the committee’s comments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u39	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, do you have any objection? It coincides with the Committee on Culture and Spirituality and with the Committee on Economic Policy. When we make a decision with you to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. I am voting on this proposal: the return of a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the moratorium on the privatization of the property of the subject of the right to legislative initiative for further development. Registration number 3347. Please vote. [[11:05:10]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Landscapes Act is being announced for consideration. Registration number 5198. Short cut? Okay. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[11:05:40]] For 209 Decision taken. The reporter is Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, the first deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u40	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Ukraine ratified the European Landscape Convention in 2005. The implementation of the European Landscape Convention and the approximation of Ukraine’s legislation to European Union legislation require the regulation of the legal and organizational principles for the protection of landscapes. Today, these issues remain unresolved. Ukraine's Landscaping Act is aimed at the insatiable use of landscapes, taking into account environmental, economic and social factors for the preservation of landscapes for modern and future generations. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, recommends the bill as a result of the first reading to be adopted on the basis of comments and suggestions made. I want to say that they are mostly this technical in nature and can be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. At its meeting on 16 February 2010, the Committee reviewed the bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Landscape Act as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Request to support the committee’s decision and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u41	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! If anyone insists on participating in the debate on this bill, please sign in. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Caplienne, MP's Reform for the Future. I can't hear anybody.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u42	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please pass on the word to Hassuk Petra Petrovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u43	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" is asking for support for Bill 5198 on Landscapes, because on 7 September 2005, Ukraine ratified the European Landscape Convention, which foresees further steps to ensure its implementation at the level of the State. The bill is designed to preserve landscapes for modern and future generations. The position of the project is applied to the entire territory of Ukraine without any restrictions or exceptions. The bill defines, on the basis of the introduction of landscape regulation, legal and organizational principles for the protection, planning, control and accounting of landscapes at national, regional, local levels, taking into account the diversity of their natural cultural and aesthetic values and economic development. The bill establishes the order of landscape planning, determines the boundaries and dimensions of landscapes, as well as how they are reflected in land administration documentation and in land cadastre documents. The adoption of the Ukrainian Landscape Law will contribute to the implementation of the provisions of the European Landscape Convention and the integration of Ukraine's legislation into the European Union's legislation, demonstrate the state's position on the implementation at national level of measures for the conservation and balanced use of landscape diversity, regulate the law and organizational principles for the protection of landscapes, implement a tool for concerted balanced actions in the field of landscape planning, regulation, control and treatment of landscape conditions on the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u45	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u46	Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u47	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm talking to you about the fact that we haven't met the right standards today, and today we want to adopt another law. Neither did the implementation of the Environmental Protection Constitution. Every day you get a message: that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right. And of course, the question must be primarily about law enforcement. In this case, the European Landscape Convention, which is ratified, is obviously to be implemented on the basis of the adoption of a separate law. But we've already reached that limit when we need to adopt the Environmental Code. We came to that limit when we say: The Attorney General's Office does not ensure that law enforcement is enforced. We have come to that limit when we say: The Ministry of Environmental Protection does not perform this function at all. All right, the receipts are coming right out of there. Because of this, I remind you that the components of its borders and the dimensions that are provided for by this law are air, surface and underground waters, mountain rocks, rocks, hills, rivers, their shores and floods, swamps, forests, areas, plains, beams, reefs, plant and animal worlds. How long am I trying to get to you and tell you people are good when we ban the round? You're both out of here. The forests of the mountains, destroyed forests, and overcrowded ports. With what? A round one. What are we doing? That's why I'm in favour of adopting this law, but I'm in favour of ensuring that all other laws, including this, are enforced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Question completed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Landscapes Act. [[Registration number 5198]] Please vote. [[11:12:45.]] For 299 Decision taken. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the legislation on the cleaning of areas. Here was the suggestion to consider the issue for a shortcut, right? I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[11:13:17]] For 209 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Legislative Security and Law Protection Activities, Vasil Mikolayovich Gritsak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. The bill that you are offered for consideration concerns the cleanliness of the territory. At first, only two words are not directly related to the bill. Dear colleagues, you can see that lately our and foreign analysts, experts, journalists are very fond of comparing Ukraine's ratings with other countries in terms of economics, business development, human rights and so forth. But obviously the fact that Singapore, or Hong Kong, is an example in economic development is not an empty fact. And he's the virtues, the kind of people who are making this development of these countries, they're not from an empty place. When "difficulty" is thrown in Singapore, it's $700 a fine. Obviously, this kind of thing shapes a person not to throw a "screw" next to him, excuse me for saying that, and don't throw garbage around him. When you drive by train, if you drive by train, you see what happens next to the railway. When you move around the city, you see unsanctioned garbage dumps. This bill has been called, well, to minimize such shameful phenomena when we, citizens of Ukraine, corrupt and litter and destroy our country's actual ecology. There are two important points here, because there are certain sanctions in the Code of Administrative Offences. But these sanctions, first of all, are so small that it's much easier to pay a fine than not to throw away and dispose of this garbage. Second, the code does not have penalties, fines on the amount of what is being thrown out. And in that case, you can only prove what you can see when you take out a suicide bomber or a kamaz and throw it out of town in a bush or near a tree. But garbage is created by humans. Humans.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u51	Do it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u52	People who don't just have culture, but who realize that it's Ham, I'm sorry, it's not going to end up bad for them. So I'd like to take a look at this bill. I know that there is the conclusion of his Main Committee for further work. Whatever you say, it will be. But agree with what is being done in Ukraine with dirt can not be garbage.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u53	Thank you. Yes, please, Vasil Mikolaiovich Gritzak of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has been considered by the Ukrainian People's Deputy Zarabin draft of the Ukrainian Law on the amendment of legislation on the cleaning of areas. [[Registration number 5117]] In discussing the bill, members of the committee made a number of comments and warnings. In particular, the new article 152-1, which is proposed to supplement the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, provides for administrative responsibility for violations of the rules of cleanliness. But it is not clear that this is the rule that the authorities have the right to set them. In addition, the draft text uses the new term "recreational zone", the content of which is unclear. The question is: Where exactly are these zones, by whom, and how should their boundaries be determined, and how do the rules on these zones have a bearing on the well - being of the territories of the population? Having examined the draft Law amending some of the legislation on the area’s cleanliness, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return its subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. In doing so, the committee notes that this law is relevant, essential. And I think that, together with the Zarubinsky and the Committee of Peoples, we will work out this law and it will be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u55	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this discussion. Please show me the names of the national MPs who signed up. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u56	I also support the rapporteur, the author of the bill, and the rapporteur from the committee. Indeed, the law is very relevant. You can't take it away from him. But it is not necessary to approach only very narrowly that this bill applies only to those people. Sometimes because of the services that have to deal with these issues at the right time, people are forced anywhere in the woods and stuff like that. Therefore, we need to strengthen the responsibility not only of these people but of those who are evading their direct responsibilities. But I would like to tell my colleague Zarubinsky, perhaps your bill would have to be even more extensive to take up the topic that you raised, the very important topic of the environment, the cleanliness of our environment. Well, for example, I'm setting an example. We have a titanium dioxide plant near Herson County, in Armenia. For many years, cleaning facilities have not worked, and management boldly says that it is better to pay fines than to do cleaning work. What is the result? You can see how all the crops in the cities are being destroyed during discards. You can also look at medical statistics, there's a black big spot, there's a Chaplinsky, there's a Kalanczak district, because that's what's contributing to the high incidence of oncosa. So I want to talk to my colleagues and to the committee, the question that's being raised is very important for the lives of our people, for the environment. But I'd like to ask, Oleg Alexandrovich, as we have already voted, to take a wider approach to the solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u57	Do you have everyone? Thank you. Vladimir Stretović, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u58	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian Democratic Union, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention in general to the environmental problem, to the preservation of the environment. It's like we're living our lives in barbaric ways and we're not thinking at all, and what happens after us 10 years, 50, 100 years? Two years ago, the law that I passed came into force with regard to the separation of secondary resources. Separately collect plastic, separate glass, food, cardboard. For some reason, though, our city’s utilities do not turn around. In Kiev, at least I don't see where the sights would stand, as is done in the West, as is done in all of Europe in terms of resource conservation and non-circumcised territory. So we're going to get rid of the dumps, the garbage, the wildfire in Gaspree, Yalta, under Kiev here. But somehow our housing and utility system doesn't open up completely to solve this problem. I'm not talking about personal, private farms outside the city, Kiev, or Zitomir, or Vincenzo. As soon as the spring comes, we see tons of garbage thrown out in the most attractive, picturesque places. And it's only until Easter that he's gathering, cleaning up, everything's being exported, and it's going to cost a lot of money. If we don’t think about nature, about the future, then, excuse me, today Ukraine, which has virtually no water problems, except for the steppe, the southern zone, will soon be nowhere to take water from! So I support the Zarubinski initiative to vote on this project in the first reading. 30 seconds to support the Catherinechuk Bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u59	Let's do it this way. Catherine's microphone. But I remind you, honourable colleagues, which is not passed on when the procedure is shortened. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u60	Dear National Deputies! None of the parliamentarians today objected to this bill on adoption in the first reading. I would suggest that we do not watch these reports when youths go on Saturdays and collect garbage. Still, they supported the Zarubinski initiative, and for the second reading, they would have worked out the shortcomings that the committee said very conveniently. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u61	Please, Jaroslav Suhi, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u62	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The faction of the Party of the Regions will certainly support this bill once it is finalized. And here's the thing. For those who doubt whether they should vote or not, I must explain that this bill was passed on request and at the request of local governments. When we present them with claims of contamination and pollution, they tell us: "Give us the tools, the tools." So in order for them to get this tool, this tool of order they get, this bill needs to be written with a clear definition of who is responsible and what it looks like. Now that I've been tipped off, we've got really, really ridiculous fines. 50 people are lying in the hospital, fine, a 400 - dollar hypermarket. It's not good anywhere. You know, when we talk about Europe, in Europe this order and the rule of law, and obedience has been shaped for years, including by large fines. I believe that this bill has the right to exist, to be worked out with a clear definition of procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. Hacko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the bill aims to prevent and combat the contamination of the territories, that is, to drive our cities on the streets and the villages of order and cleanliness. And in that sense, it's not just relevant, it's vicious. Yet a number of such positions are imperfect in content and form. In particular, the Ukrainian Human Property Welfare Act introduces the term "territory", which is defined as the population of land that is used to place objects of general use of parks, squares, boulevards, streets, etc. Instead, the text of the bill uses a new term "recreational zone", the content of which is unclear, and the use of it after the word "populations" through combined "ta" indicates that these areas do not belong to populated areas and exist separately. The project also does not define the authority of the authorities and officials who will have the right to draw up a protocol on the commission of an administrative offence and of the peers who will consider it and accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the fact that the issue needs a proper legislative settlement, since it is no longer going anywhere, is clear to everyone. So this request, let's take it to work, we'll take it as a basis, and we'll continue to work on this bill seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Ukraine's legislative acts to ensure the cleanliness of territories. [[Registration number 5117]] Please vote. [[11:25:53]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for the consideration of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the keeping of the mystery of confession]] [[Registration number 5335]] The proposal comes to the attention of this issue by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:26:26]] For 207 Decision taken. Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Vladimir Stanislavovich Maruschenko, co-rapporteur – Deputy Head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of the Law, Vladimir Mikolajović Strtović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u66	Vladimir Marusunko, Party of the Christian Democratic Union, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The need to introduce the bill is due to the fact that, according to part five of article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations, no one has the right to demand from the clergy the information they have received in confession of believers. Part three of article 5 of the same law declares that the State takes note of and respects the traditions and internal instructions of religious organizations if they do not conflict with existing legislation. At the same time, article 69, paragraph 1, of the Code of Criminal Procedure stipulates that the clergy may be questioned as witnesses for what is entrusted to them or has become known in the course of their professional activities, if they are relieved of their duty to keep a professional secret to the person who has entrusted them with this information. This position is obviously contrary to the traditions and internal instructions of most religious organizations. Furthermore, article 69 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure does not specify the form in which the discharge of lawyers, notaries, doctors, psychologists and ministers is to take place, either orally or in writing? So my bill proposes two things. In addition to the fact that the release of lawyers, notaries, doctors, psychologists from professional secrecy requires the release of them in writing. And the second, I propose. Introduce to part one of the first article 69 of the Criminal Procedure Code paragraph six to determine that the clergy cannot be questioned as witnesses to the information they received during confession. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office considers that legislative proposals are relevant, supports their adoption and suggests that the draft law be adopted on the basis of the first reading. Dear colleagues, I also ask you to keep this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u67	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Stratovic Vladimir Mikolaiovich, deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement law enforcement was discussed by the Ukrainian National MP Marouschenko, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code. The purpose of the draft law is to strengthen the protection of the rights of citizens, to ensure that the clergy are respected by the secret of confession, to remedy the shortcomings that exist in the area of legal regulation of the rights of those involved in the criminal process. This project proposes to amend part of article 69 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure by stating in paragraph 1 that lawyers and other legal professionals who are legally entitled to legal aid on a personal basis or with the commission of a legal person, notaries, doctors, psychologists cannot be questioned as witnesses on the grounds that they have been entrusted or have been known in the course of their professional activities if they are not exempt in writing from the obligation to keep a professional secret to the person who has entrusted them with this information. It is also proposed that part of the first article 69 of the Criminal Procedure Code be supplemented by paragraph six, which states that the clergy cannot be questioned as witnesses for the information they receive during confession. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill can be considered as a basis. After considering Bill No. 5335, after hearing the expert reports, as well as the analytical expert conclusions of Ukraine’s leading institutions, the committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the draft bill be adopted on the basis of the outcome of the plenary session. Please support the position of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u69	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to discuss the matter, please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikhailo Kosov, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u70	Mikhailo Kosov. I would like to draw the attention of the legislators to the fact that there are seven Christian mysteries. And the fourth mystery, that is, the secret required of every priest, is the sacrament of confession, or in catechism, it's called the "mystery of repentance, or penance." Thus, Christian teaching requires that every clergyman who accepts confession from his laity keep the secret of this confession. If we, for example, did not give God such a situation, the following authorities would require a priest. Even if it were, let's say, it was a matter of necessity, because it was a crime, a murder, or something like that, a priest still has no right to violate this basic command, this law, this fourth commandment, "Seven Christian Secrets." Thus, in the world’s laws in a country where there is freedom of conscience and religious religion, there must be a legal right without which the church cannot exist at all. Of course, this rule is already referred to in our legislation and it is in the law on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u71	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u72	I say this is in other legislation, particularly the Freedom of Conscience Act. But it's essential, let's say, to specifically introduce a rule into this legislation that the author proposes criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u73	Thank you. Ruslan Knazievich, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, well, actually, it's not a new problem at all. I'll remind you that over the last three years, this is the fourth bill, which actually regulates this area of law. Moreover, the last bill was just introduced by the author who introduced the bill. I remember well, for I was still speaking on that issue. He was looking at it about a year ago, maybe two years ago, time is running out. It was about summer in the fall of 2009. The essence of his bill is very simple. In that case, if a lawyer, a psychologist, a notary, a doctor for some reason has received information from his trustee and this trustee does not consider it appropriate for the persons concerned to disseminate this information, only if there is written advice based on a form of law from that trustee that he is able to disseminate such information to those persons accordingly, they can disseminate it. Otherwise they can't do it. And the second part of the bill is that among these individuals, the clergy are expelled, because together they were once on this list, more precisely, even by this time together in a single list. But given that the clergy are a completely different category of our citizens, they are suggested in the bill to introduce a special regime at all. Under any circumstances, they can't spread the data that they got during the confession of a citizen, even if they let hypothetically, that there's some kind of permission to distribute these, this information. But we do realize that in confession a person can afford to spread information that he does not think is appropriate to distribute psychologically. Thus, even the availability of any document here does not play any role. We supported this bill on the first reading, and I think it's worth supporting in the first reading. Only this time we didn't support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u75	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u76	Thank you. I see that we are increasingly and more often involved in the constitutional field. We forget that our religious communities, that the church is separate from the state, and that the church, whatever it is, lives by its religious laws, which are called canons. And whether or not there are secret confessions, it is already with you and me that the secret of confession must be. And this is no longer a question of the legislator. This is the question of the priest to whom a person professes. Why do we intervene in a field that we do not need to interfere with? This is where we're going to go, and we're going to do this kind of chaos there, you know. And we write laws for all people. But that's what I imagine. Please tell me why there is no example: How many priests have violated the law of confession and come to trial and declared facts? There's no such thing. The problem is premeditated, the problem is solved by religious canons, and we do not need to go there. And from my point of view, I imagine, if the Lord God hadn't given one of you to kill one of you, or mass murder, or bullying and priest knows about these crimes, but as a Ukrainian citizen, I emphasize how a Ukrainian citizen he would never have given any indication in his life that this man was a criminal or a murderer. And so, to my conviction, we don't have to vote for this bill, it's regulated by religious laws, by canons.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u77	Thank you. It's time for the performance, dear fellows. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office supports this position with regard to the adoption of the bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. [[concerning the keeping of the mystery of confession]] [[Registration number 5335]] Please vote. [[11:38:17]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you a draft law on private detective activity. [[Registration number 6288]] Short cut, please. I'm voting on this proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:38:50]] For-182 Decision taken. The reporter is Moisik Volodymir Romanovich, both as author and from the committee. Yes, Volodymyr Romanovich, four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u78	Vladimir Moses. Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, my distinguished colleagues, now coming to the rostrum to report the Private Detective Activity Act, I spoke to Yuri Carmazin, and he reminded me that 13 years ago he had passed such a law. For the three callings of the Supreme Council, it will be the fifth or sixth law, not the political one, not the lobbyist one. I will only remind you that Russia has adopted such a law since 1992. Russia has created an Association of Russian Detectives, they have private detectives from Belarus, Moldova, Latvia, I'm not talking about the United States anymore, Britain, France, Germany, Canada, India, Israel, Japan and the whole world. And I'll tell you that the number of private detectives in England, for example, is half as high as the number of police. Do we have detective activity, and do we have private investigators? Of course there is. And you know about them: both in stamps and in banks and just in front of rich people. The point is that we should regulate the activities of private investigators by law. So the author of the bill proposes the definition of private detective search activity. This is, above all, an entrepreneurial activity. Such activity will be granted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. There are separate articles on subject matter of detective activity, or those who may have the right to carry out their activities. Individual requirements for activities. We're saying that private investigators don't do intelligence. This is the right of state law enforcement authorities. Dear colleagues! During the drafting of the bill, the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Attorney-General's Office, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which, by the way, proposes to support the law in the first reading on the basis. The committee feels the same way. And we promise the Supreme Council that in the shortest time, we will prepare it with your comments on the second reading. I would like to stress once again that this law is still needed in the sense that the Presidential Administration has prepared a draft of the new Criminal Procedure Code. And with that project, the lawyer will have the right to collect evidence. This will also be one of the ways that will allow a lawyer to participate fully in criminal justice under the new Criminal Procedure Code. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u79	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" discussed the bill. And we are convinced that it is necessary to accept it. The thing is, as of today, the issue of private detective activity is not regulated by legislation at the right level, but it actually already exists. And first of all, those people who perform those functions that have to be in any civilized society that are active in most of the normal countries of the world. Now, on the one hand, they find themselves under serious pressure, pressure, and pressure from law enforcement structures, and people who might be dissatisfied with the results of their activities, where, let's say, they're gathering information. On the other hand, without adequate responsibilities, they often move on to activities that may be repetitively negative. So in this case, we think that the bill in the form in which it's presented can be adopted in the first reading. The comments that have been made to him are quite real in preparing for the second reading. Our parliamentary group will vote on its own and will urge the House to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u81	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Sergey Greenewecki will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Personally, I don't mind having something created. In fact, if anything happens, it's a positive thing, both in society and in the economy, in my opinion. But I'm against us, on the condition of today's excessive, in my opinion, the number of law enforcement agencies, still creating and additionally some firms, offices and so on and so forth. In general, it is understood that for each person we have: 1 legal guardian, or 1 detective, or 1 other person who has the right to collect information. Dearly beloved, we are not in a position to be in an economic, political, social position to create additional units of some kind. Those who will be able to watch over people on a conditional basis. I'm definitely against this bill. And you don't have to refer to countries that have such offices. Because they're completely different from the socio-economic and political, democratic sense of development. It's my job to create jobs in the industry. It's my job to create jobs or factories in our cities and villages. But I don't support this bill. And it's because of the position that I'm confident that a lot of references to what's happening today are done either in the banking structure or in another. This is a violation of the legal rights of citizens who are protected by the Constitution of Ukraine. So if there are these cases, if they're going to legalize -- the authors who are proposing this bill, we need to refer to the law enforcement agency and nip this kind of activity. Please don't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u83	Sergey Greenewecki, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u84	Thank you. Please give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u85	Oleg Zarubinski, please. John Stojko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u86	Thank you. Sergey Rafailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, unlike the previous speaker, I cannot speak so strongly that I am against this bill. At least because if there is demand in the state, there must be an offer. There's demand for private investigators, and you know it. And this is not only because the law enforcement system is fully or partially performing its functions. Often, and this is evidenced by the experience of many countries where private activity has long existed and has been legalized, and this experience shows that often, the issues that private detectives are dealing with are not in sight or cannot be a major target for state law enforcement. You are well aware that these may be questions related to living relationships, family relationships. With those things, when a person can't protect his rights, and when he wants someone to be professional and that's all he wants to do, protect his rights. But it was not in the thousands and tens of thousands of cases in the country. That's why I'm not explicitly against this bill. The other thing is that there are a lot of things in this bill that obviously need to be worked out. And I would think that the form was objective enough -- it's the subject of the legislative initiative of this bill. Well, you know, there's a lot of observations from science management. I drew attention to one thing, first of all, I think that the honourable Vladimir Romanovich would agree with him. It would be necessary to define the concept of "private detective activity," because just defining it as an entrepreneurial activity is not enough. That's absolutely right, because private detective activity is not just an enterprise, or you wouldn't need such a special bill. I offer the idea of supporting, not rejecting, so that the subject of the legislative initiative can work alone with the experts of others.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u87	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u88	But experience also shows that there is a demand for private investigators in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u89	Ivan Stojko is transferring the right to speak to Ruslan Knyazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u90	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I still think that we will change our perspective during the discussion, and as the bill that we have discussed above, we will take the cleanliness of the environment as a basis. And if we now reject this idea, let's close our eyes, let's assume that we don't have that kind of activity right now, like a bunch of other people. We know that they are, many people use their services, not only, I mean, properly, private detectives, but as if they don't exist. Why doesn't it exist? Because while in the shadows, it is much more advantageous to many than when it is controlled by the State. Because what is state control? It's not just about issuing licenses, as someone here says, it's a possibility if there's some kind of activity violation, canceling these licenses. And it's going to be annulled not by anyone, but by the Ministry of Justice, so it's based on direct direct responsibility for controlling this activity. This activity has existed, it has existed for 20 years, it will always exist. And so the absolute absurd thing is that Ukrainian private investigators, think about it, join international associations, and they don't seem to exist in their homeland. The world just doesn't understand us. Because a lot of people, even in this session room, use private detectives. Many in domestic problems, and many even in matters of interest and interest to the State because they are working against the State. So who, like the state, has to control this process to make it impossible for private detectives to try to get someone to work against it. And the state closes its eyes and washes its hands. Once and for all, this issue needs to be settled. There's nothing complicated about it, dear fellows! It's not about politics! Not even the last name of the author of the legislative initiative. He should be grateful that he beats the crap out of it and tells us that, good people, let us settle in some way, but we are civilized Europeans! And if we want to go to a civilized world, let us at least take such an elementary and simple nonpolitical step today. I agree with Oleg Aleksandrovich’s correct statement that the second reading should include a rather quality grinding process. And I have a very large number of comments. I told the author of the legislative initiative. But the first reading certainly needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u91	Yes, thank you. Yuri Carmazin, one minute. His last name was.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u92	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I've actually introduced such a bill on private detective activity. And I want to turn to you now, and I think our colleague, who was very much opposed to this bill, will understand how much he needs. First of all, we're economics. First. Secondly, we are increasing the protection of the rights of our citizens officially. Thirdly, we're increasing crime detection. Article 14, paragraph 7, stipulates that during the period from the time of the client’s contract to collect information on a criminal case, a private searcher is obliged to report in writing to the person conducting the investigation, the investigator, the prosecutor or the court in which the criminal case is being conducted. Now think about it. If there are only four million people in Israel, there are 3,000 detective agencies! Three thousand! In the United States, they have more budget than all law enforcement agencies! And we're from such retrogrades.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Question completed. There is obviously a logic here that we need to legitimize this activity. But, along with, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports, it's very serious to look at this law. Well, at least in places like this, private detectives do film, photo shoots, phone auditions, that sort of thing. We have someone to listen to. Yeah. Dear colleagues, so here we have to look at all these questions. At the same time, honourable national MPs, I am voting on a proposal by a committee supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration on the adoption of a draft law on private detective search activities. [[Registration number 6288]] Please vote. [[11:53:06]] For-95 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Yeah? For one more time? Take it off, please. Once again, there's an offer. I'm betting on the vote on the bill's return to read again. [[Registration number 6288]] Please vote. [[11:53:48]] For 270. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's maybe work this out. We'll take a break because we won't be able to get to the break. Huh? And after the break, we will continue to consider the issues and first consider the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on criminal liability for abstinence of punishment]] [[Registration number 6688]] A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u94	Yes, invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our sessions. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now consider a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on criminal liability for abstinence of punishment]] [[Registration number 6681]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:31:06]] For-160. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement Activities, Oliynik Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Both the reporter and the co-reporter. So, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich? Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u95	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which is proposed for first reading. [[on criminal liability for abstinence of punishment]] The purpose and purpose of the bill is to ensure that criminal responsibility can be brought to justice for the avoidance of criminal punishment that is not related to the deprivation of liberty, irrespective of the order in which it is intended. The bill seems extremely relevant, for its developers propose to complement the circle of persons who will be held criminally responsible for the avoidance of punishment that is not related to the deprivation or restriction of will. The committee received many, many positive conclusions from government authorities and agencies. In particular, the authorities of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, and the principal legal institutions made their reasoned comments and suggestions. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. However, after reviewing the bill, the committee considers it possible to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on its first reading as a basis. The bill was implemented in accordance with article 116 of the Ukrainian Act "On Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". To sum up, I would like to re-vote this bill in the first reading so that we can carefully check how it conforms to the practice of law enforcement and work on its further improvement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u96	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! We should be extremely careful about any changes to the Criminal Code. I say with extreme caution that today there is no flaw in the failure to comply with any standards in the Criminal Code. Today, there is simply a selectivity of its application. If there were no selectivity of application, dear friends, it is obvious that there would not be what is currently going on in a range of areas. I don't know if they're telling the President of Ukraine that on these boards that stand along the route, they're tilting industry representatives of those who are still working to count between 40,000 and 50,000 dollars from the company to set up commercials. I don't think the President of Ukraine will like it when he finds out. But it's all a crime! But no one violates criminal matters. In this case, we are considering a small framework issue that can be adopted in the first reading, since it is proposed to amend articles 52, 389, 390 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the essence of which is not only to extend the effects of these articles to those to whom the sentence is handed down by the court but also to those to whom the penalty is imposed on the basis of article 82 in order to replace the unspent portion of the punishment with a milder one. That's why I don't see much damage today if we accept this bill in the first reading, but the second reading will have to be substantially aligned with other norms and substantially re-processed. So it can be accepted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Instead, the main scientific and expert administration believes that the bill should be returned to work. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on criminal liability for abstinence of punishment]] [[Registration number 6681]] [[12:36:43]] For 224 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to re-read the Bill's registration number 6681. Let's do it again. [[12:37:09]] For 242 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, drafters of the draft law on the regulation of auxiliary motherhood and the provision of State guarantees of equal rights and opportunities for mothers, have requested the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw the bill. [[Registration number 4647]] Is there no objection? I am voting for a motion to withdraw from the draft law on the regulation of auxiliary motherhood and to provide State guarantees of equal rights and opportunities for mothers. [[Registration number 4647]] Please vote. [[12:38:06]] For 259. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the provision of constitutional rights for receiving pensions by Ukrainian citizens who are abroad]] Registration numbers: 6695, 6695-1. I'm betting on your motion to consider the issue with a reduced procedure. [[12:38:46]] For 210 Decision taken. Rapporteurs: Ukrainian National Deputies Feldman Alexander Borisovich and Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u99	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! On 7 October 2009, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine rendered a decision on the constitutional submission of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine with article 49 and article 51 of the Law on “Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance”. [[No. 25 of 2009]] By that decision, the Constitutional Court found the provisions of article 49, article 51, incompatible with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court also drew attention in the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the need to bring into line with the Constitution the provisions of other laws governing the payment of pensions to retirees residing permanently in States with whom Ukraine had not entered into a treaty. In particular, article 3: the basis of Ukrainian legislation on compulsory State social insurance, article 59.1, article 62. As stated in the decision, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine considers that, in view of the unconstitutional recognition of the provisions of the “Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance” Act of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should bring these laws into line with the present decision. The bill proposes to bring the regulations governing pension insurance into line with the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on 7 October 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u100	Do you have everyone? Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u101	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I draw your attention to the fact that the bill was passed, not by Carmazin, but by a group of national deputies: both Carmazin and Novikova and Doub, Vaszuk and Stishenko. And the bill is intended for us to finally have a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since October 7, 2009. By this decision No. 25 of the EP since 2009, the Constitutional Court has declared that they do not comply with the Constitution, is not constitutional, the provision of article 49, part 1, paragraph 2, second sentence of article 51 of the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance" which has ceased to be valid since the adoption by the Constitutional Court of this decision. Without respect for this decision, the government does not take any steps to start paying people’s pensions. Here's what's going on. What is the effect of the Constitutional Court’s decision? These are the positions, I quote. 49, para. 2: The payment of pensions at all times by territorial decision or. Stopping. Who? All the time there is a pensioner abroad, unless otherwise stipulated by the international treaty of Ukraine. Your Honor, this is declared unconstitutional. What is needed instead? And we, a group of national MPs say that instead we're proposing another article to add, 51st, to how this happens, that this pension is assigned in Ukraine, is counted as a bank account in a bank in Ukraine, or a branch of a foreign bank operating in Ukraine, in bracelets in those terms. He wants to convert whether he is going to Poland or going to another country with which there is no agreement. That's just what I'm calling countries. He wants to convert, then it happens at his expense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u102	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u103	This is the contents of article 51. The bill, honourable national deputies, has absolutely nothing to do with political occupation. It only protects citizens' rights under the Constitution of Ukraine. So I don't see any contradictions in doing this. But I can see that the government didn't want to pay the money to the people they made with their lives. What right does anyone have to take? The Constitutional Court protects us, we still do not want to take sides with the Constitutional Court. I'm just talking to your sanity, to your heart, to your soul, and please support the pensioners. Thank you. It's their right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u104	Mikola Georgievich Kulczynski, head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u105	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee considered both bills on April 20th, and despite the fact that the issue of bringing legislation into line with the Constitutional Court's decision No. 25 of 2009, which has been declared unconstitutional by the national legislation on the termination of pension payments in the event of the retirement of a pensioner to a permanent residence in a State with which Ukraine has not made an agreement in the area of pension insurance, is urgent. The ways in which this issue is settled are outlined in the bills that have been tabled do not solve this problem. Yes, the proposals made in both bills amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act will not have the expected legal effect, as section XV, paragraph 16, of the Ukrainian Act on National Pension Insurance, applies only to part of the definition of the right to retirement by age on extended terms and years. In addition, the removal of the position that only work disability or occupational illness benefits are paid abroad will not only not solve the task but will result in a deterioration of the pension of persons who have been assigned disability pensions as a result of work disability or occupational illness. With regard to amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons, both bills are proposed. It should be noted that this is one of the special laws governing pension insurance in this case for military personnel and their families. Since such pensions are provided at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine, the proposed proposal requires more detailed financial, economic justification, taking into account the Ukrainian Budget Code and the Supreme Council Rules. The committee also does not support the proposal to include the second part of the sentence of article 3 of the basics of Ukraine’s legislation on the general public social obligation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u106	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u107	The committee therefore proposes that both bills be sent to the authors for further work. Although I personally think that we can support them in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion. Yes, Paul Mokchan, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u109	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's understood that a person who has worked all his life in this state has the right to live anywhere and anywhere else in the world, according to all the human rights enshrined in all the international instruments. And she realized that she had every right to have all their pension accounts secured. And there's a simple logic: earn, live, get it. I cannot understand just one reason why we should personally regulate their abilities and give to others or not? What are these discriminatory principles? And that's why I personally support this bill, and our group will support it because it refers to the fundamental principles of human rights. I understand it's going to go into a little bit of budget. But you have to consider, you have to make an algorithm that would allow Ukraine to be a civilized state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u110	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I was able to speak now, get a word in order to argue about what I heard from the committee or from other subjects. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider that if a citizen who resides abroad is assigned a pension as a result of work disability or occupational illness, he may be recalculated as a pension. If he left abroad by January 1, 1992, he could too. So I'm asking you, where is the logic? For one thing, they pay nothing out of the money they have earned in their lives, and they set up these payments. Others are also paid because they spend money on conversions, government funds. What's the logic? There's no logic. Now, your Honorable colleague, Mr. Moochan, is doing the right thing by supporting the bill, and he says, "This country is going to fly into a coin.".. It's not "inflicted" in any of the states. These are the funds that these people have already earned, they're accumulated in the Pension Fund. It's his money, it's the property of this citizen that this government takes from him. I'm just calling your attention to the need to implement the Constitutional Court's decision on this account, and it needs to be taken into account. But what do we have in this legal culture, where do we go? People are already addressing, the Constitutional Court has been approached by the Supreme Court, which said "unconstitutional". Canceled. And still, you can't be forced to support yourself. Because, you see, there are a few people in the government who have received a pension certificate today. This is exactly where Yatsenuk did, served, beginning with Azar. And they're, you see, against it. Such criminal responsibility should be imposed for failing to execute a decision of the Constitutional Court for the seizure of foreign property. And then, I guess no one would mind. That's why I'm arguing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u112	Finish up. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u113	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Of course, the fairness of dealing with this issue, which is today, we are considering with regard to pension insurance or pensioners' pension rights, is urgent. And it's something that our nation needs to decide, I think. I believe that this category of people who were forced to emigrate from Ukraine or to stay in labour migration abroad, earning pensions. Of course, the State should not only provide them with pension insurance in this regard, but also, of course, that they should receive these pensions on time. And in my opinion, such issues in this regard are ineligible not only for those citizens who are outside of Ukraine, but also within our territory, in Ukraine for today there is a large part that is not satisfied or that is unjustly, in my opinion, or in the opinion of our electorate, to this day they have a pension. And that's why now you know that in our society, both in the country and in the government, there's a question about pension reform. I think that in the context of pension reform, we need to take into account, including those situations or the problematic issues that we are now addressing in the context of this bill. In addition, I think such a bill should be considered, not by a reduced procedure, but by a full procedure, on the one hand. And the second question. Of course, in order to argue or ask questions, we need statistics: and how many of these citizens in which they are found, why there is no bilateral relationship with these countries, how they are protected and so on and so forth. I mean, I have a lot of questions, especially a lot of questions that I could ask the minister, a professional minister, who should give us a real picture. Because by a reduced procedure, it doesn't allow us to appreciate the real picture. So my personal point of view is that this bill needs to be considered, but taking into account the circumstances of pension reform, taking into account the importance of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u114	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u115	Taking into account the importance of this issue, I ask to agree with the author and to send him back to the first reading, including the second reading during the full consideration of this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. One minute, Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u117	Thank you. The Communist faction. Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the issue of the level of pensions in Ukraine is indeed one of the most painful social problems, acute and painful social problems. Well, I just want to remind you that two thirds of Ukrainian citizens are now receiving a pension of 1,000 dollars. As a result, the overall level of pensions in Ukraine is very unsatisfactory. And so trying to solve the question by singled out some particular category, that's probably the way to nowhere. That's why I'm absolutely convinced that we have to solve, including the problems that the honourable drafters of the bill propose to solve for citizens who live abroad all the time, we need to solve in the general context and raise the overall level of the solution to the pension problem. I'm not saying any more that the committee claims that unfortunately, these bills don't solve the matter in fact, which is very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u118	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem has been discussed. The committee, I will remind you again, proposes that the bills be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. Obviously, dear colleagues, we need to listen to the conclusions and the committee, and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, taking into account the importance of this problem and the need to solve it. But in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the provision of constitutional rights for the receiving of pensions by citizens who are abroad. The authors are national deputies Gayman and Feldman. [[12:55:30]] For-29 The decision is not taken. I am betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act, to amend certain laws of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6695-1]] [[on the enforcement of Constitutional Court Decision No.25-pp/2009 on the necessity of bringing into compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine provisions governing the payment of pensions to retirees who are permanently residing in states with which Ukraine has not made an international agreement]] The authors are Yuri Karmazin, Julia Novikova, Alexander Golub, Catherine Vaszczuk, Alexander Steshenko. I'll bet you a vote on the adoption of the project as a basis. Please vote in favour. [[12:56:33]] For-61 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bills to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Registration numbers 6695, 6695-1. Please vote. [[12:57:04]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Bills are rejected. Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Basic Principles of State Migration Policy of Ukraine is being announced for consideration, [[Registration number 6705]] Short cut? Please. You suggest that I put this motion to a vote: to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[12:57:38]] For 209 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Correspondent is the head of the Human Rights Committee subcommittee, the national minorities, the inter-national relations of Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u119	Yuri Carmazin. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law "On Basic Principles of State Migration Policy" has been developed in accordance with paragraph 10 of Part One of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which establishes that the principles of regulation of migration processes are solely determined by the laws of Ukraine, and in accordance with paragraph 1 of the four decisions of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine since 15.06.2007 on the direction of Ukraine's State migration policy and urgent measures to improve its effectiveness, have been implemented by the relevant decree of the President of Ukraine, which establishes the conceptual uncertainty of State migration policy. This happened back in 2007. It's been four years, do you think anything's changed in this country? Nothing's changed. The situation has changed. Soon there will be no market in Kiev that would not have been formed according to our national sign. The number of ethnic enclaves that criminalize and threaten national security are actively being filled. It's obvious. There is growing competition in the labour market, housing market, and the social cost of maintaining the infrastructure of cities. Illegal migrants use all of this at the level of Ukrainian citizens, but citizens pay taxes and they don't. A new project is currently being planned. In Odessa, there is no plan at all for the branch office of the Cherkizov market that was taken out of Moscow. As a result of this, we, a group of Ukrainian national MPs: Karmazinim, Sharov, Gnatkevich, proposed draft Law on the Basic Principles of National Migration Policy, which provides for the principles of State migration policy, the priorities of State migration policy, namely, the protection of Ukrainian citizens' rights and freedoms, the protection of the labour market, the creation of a favourable migration situation in Ukraine for continuous social and economic development, the prevention of mass natural and unregulated internal and external migration of the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u120	Finish up, please. Well, finish up, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u121	Yeah. Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, of course, it's very difficult to look at such projects in a simplified way. That's why we're proposing priorities for ensuring that immigration control is done: the development and implementation of a single immigration control system in Ukraine, the improvement of the residence registration system. We suggest that we direct migration flows as a state where we need to, not here in the capital of the market to stand, trade, but where today's destroyed village, where we can offer to work. This is what all nations do and create conditions for the development of their own state. Because of this, please support this bill. I just don't have time to present him properly right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u122	Thank you. Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkevich, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! What I'm saying is that Mr. Carmazin is right as always, and his bills, and his proposals are always correct. And I also support in the sense that, well, what can be said by such a law in two minutes. I don't understand, but some people do. Dear colleagues, I'm beginning to think that our decision today will be, well, hardly a positive one. I have such operational information. But I want to remind you that we've been reviewing the Refugee Law recently, and it has had a negative reaction from the expert board, the expert commission. But nevertheless, we voted in favour of the insistence and request of our committee. And I think we did the right thing, because if we failed it then it would be long and long, we would be working on it, we would all be working on it, and none of it would be. All I'm going to say is that our committee recommends voting for this concept. I want to remind you that there are now two trends in the world: the first trend is pragmatic, I would say, a capitalist trend in which people from other countries are taking people from different countries, and in terms of convenience, whether it is needed by the state or not, it will do the job that the indigenous people, the citizens of this country do not want to do or will not do. It's such a line. In the West, in the United States, in Canada and, for example, in Germany, where, by the way, 1 in 9 is no longer German in Germany. As far as our position is concerned, this position is not defined, it is liberal. I'd say hyper-superliberal is not. Anybody wants to stay here. These processes are uncontrollable. The law offered by Karmazin, Sharov, and Gnatkovic is different.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u124	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u125	I'm sure he's such a pragmatically capitalist approach. The main line is to accept people if we need them. And to do that, you need the element of capitalization, that is, to have guarantees, to give him a guarantee, a employer, that he's going to work for us. And the idea that we're going to need people in some areas soon is not the first time we've heard people on the problem. I repeat, the committee recommends that this bill be supported by a majority of the votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, please sign up for this discussion. Please, Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next will be Paul the Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! Indeed, an important law must be passed. But I do. I came out on another occasion. I'd like to ask if the gentleman who showed his pension card this morning might have a certificate for the migrants. Why? Because in the morning, after demonstrating my pension certificate, I wondered whether this Mr. Yatsenuk already had a private pension fund, whether he was already trading government pension books or how he was doing it. Well, I understand that MPs can do anything, but going out and showing the state's pension card is already a sign of a crime that needs to be taken care of, because it's still going to be. will continue to show other passports abroad, migration books, and much more. That's what we're going to do. And with regard to this bill, I think that, of course, we have to legalize the people who came into the country in some way, they've captured the markets. These people are trading, these people are breaking up, and they don't have any documents. I don't think they just need to be legalized, but they need to pay to the state a market congregation, other taxes. And that's going to fill out our Pension Fund. So -- I don't know how my political power will vote for this -- and I would support such a bill. And finally, where I started. Let's not show off here our big opportunities, because, really, once the former Supreme Council head is out, who couldn't organize the Supreme Council, maybe he's already stocking himself with the identification of the future president? Sorry, people listen to us, and they say, "Wait, you can buy everything. Or could he have a driver's license?" We need these people to figure out what he's got in store for what he's trading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u128	Paul Mokchan, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" group. Next is George Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u129	Dear Yuri! [[It's Karmazin I'm talking to.]] If we're talking about the concept of migration policy, I would like to borrow the experience that is in European states, and for example in the same State of the United States. When certain steps are taken to acquire citizenship. If one third of Ukraine today wants to leave Ukraine and migrate to Europe alone, we are transforming Ukraine no longer for the Ukrainians. And if we employ those people who came to us illegally into the state, would you please tell us who will be involved in the employment of Ukrainians in Ukraine? This is the most serious problem. I would like migration policy to be based on basic principles: preparation, acquisition of citizenship and employment. Without these processes, it is impossible to solve this problem that has accumulated over the years. And we're turning into real proponents of those immigrants who come to us through those borders that are not set up today. There is no delimitation of borders. We know what holes everywhere in the north and east of Ukraine. This is the most important problem to solve this problem of migration policy, and all related problems need to be solved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u130	Yuri Litwin, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u131	Faction of the People's Party, Kirovgrad. I'd like to give it to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u132	Oleg Zarubinski, please. The faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, the committee's opinion is already expressed by the distinguished Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic. We voted by a majority in favour of adopting this bill. I took the floor for two reasons. First. I would like to say that the relevance and importance of modern systemic migration policy is underestimated by Ukrainian society. As Germany, Italy, France, and Italy were underestimating today, they still have the corresponding negative results. And the second reason. President of Ukraine's decree 622/2011, recently adopted, is the Concept of State Migration Policy. I quote in the section “The current state of migration processes”: “The absence of legislative determination of the orientations of Ukraine’s State migration policy, the principles of government action in the field of migration, strategic objectives, tasks and standards and the enforcement of human rights, has a negative impact on the effectiveness of countering the phenomena that threaten Ukraine’s national security, illegal migration, the exacerbation of the demographic crisis, and the departure beyond Ukraine of scientists, professionals and skilled labour.” And the second paragraph is: "The need to improve the state administration system of emigration processes is due to political and socio-economic factors affecting the situation in Ukraine and the world and beyond. Once again, this is an order by the President of Ukraine called "On the Concept of State Migration Policy," and we are considering the Basic Principles of Ukrainian State Migration Policy. A high-quality system that answers many of the questions raised in the President's decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u134	Katerina Samuelk. Dear colleagues, only by order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u135	Thank you. I can see so much that instead of solving a very important question for the people of Ukraine, to create jobs, we're talking so hard about where we're going to send migrants -- to a village or a mine or something. Instead of doing everything to prevent our young citizens from leaving Ukraine, our scientists, our teachers. That's what we need to do with you today. And we are now concerned about how we can accept hotter people from Asia, Africa, as a responsibility to raise employers to create conditions for their living, for their work. Why does our heart not hurt that employers do not create conditions for our people? Why do we not have heartaches because our people do not have jobs? And that if, indeed, all conditions were created for our people, we today would not be discussing in this context the issue that is now in the order of the day. Let's do the same APC. Available credit, in lysing technology, and then we don't have to send one of the authors of random people's bills to the village and raise our APC. For the most outstanding, the wise farmers themselves have always been Ukrainians. And we're talking about, you see, with this one little piece of hand, let's create, let's go to the village. What the law needs is what it needs. But as it sounds today, it is a disgrace and humiliation to the Ukrainian people. Let's talk about our own problems better than to think about those who might have come here illegally, and we're going to be dancing around them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u136	Ruslan Knyazevich, one minute. The faction didn't act.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u137	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, in fact, we've talked a lot, but we've forgotten what the bill is all about. It's very simple. The point is that we are finally trying to resolve the issue of Ukraine’s national migration policy by means of our legislative initiative, author Yuri Carmazin. Why now? Because I'm sure you know there's no place left to put it, but Europe tells us directly in these documents that as long as you don't settle this issue, any discussions about the prospect of a visa-free regime, I'm not talking about any further steps of Euro integration, they just don't make any sense. And that's why the author needs to thank him for having finally succeeded in performing the function that the Ukrainian and Ukrainian President had long ago to perform, because it is not enough to issue decrees, whether or not to execute decrees, to introduce specific bills that should be identified as priority and not urgent. Yuri Anatoliyovich was absolutely correct in writing what he thought was appropriate. If, for example, the scientific expertise that was referred to today considers certain things unconstitutional. Trust me, from a constitutional point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u138	Finish the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u139	Their statements are openly questionable. But even if it is worth working on, the first reading of this bill must be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Regrettably, the Chief Research Administration is proposing to reject the bill. I would like to emphasize, unfortunately. Because the question is very important and we need to make a decision about it. Dear people's deputies, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm voting on the committee's proposal. You don't have a line. About acceptance as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u141	I'd like to abstain, my dear colleague. I'd like to behave myself. I want to say again, behave yourself. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't yell, don't shout, I beg you. Be normal, don't shout. Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Basic Principles of Ukrainian State Migration Policy. [[Registration number 6705]] Please vote. Please vote. [[13:15:32]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. I'll put it to a vote. By factions, please: Region Party 3, "BUT – Fatherland" – 36, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 25, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 20, non-factional – 3. I'm voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 6705]] Please vote. [[13:16:17]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on bringing in compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the harmonization of procedural legislation]] [[Registration number 7371]] Short for that, right? Yes. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[13:17:02]] For 205 Decision taken. The reporter is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Elina Viktorovna Shishkina. The Coroner is the head of the Justice Committee's subcommittee, Julia Volodymyrovn Ljovckin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u142	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! You are aware of the proposal of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. One element of the constitutional principle of the rule of law is legal certainty. This means that the equivalent standards of legal acts should be harmonized with each other in such a way that no one has even thought about their diversity and understanding. However, in Ukraine's laws, such a concept as "third parties who claim to be self-sustaining claims for a dispute" has no identity that is unacceptable. To compare the text. Part one of article 53 of the KAS Ukraine: "Third persons who claim stand alone claims for a dispute may take the case at any time before the conclusion of the trial by filing an administrative action against the parties." Part one of article 34 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code: "Three persons who claim stand-alone claims on the subject of a dispute may be brought before the conclusion of the proceedings by bringing a lawsuit to one or both parties." Finally, part of the first article 26 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure: "Third persons who claim their own claims for a dispute may take the case before the court of the household by filing a complaint with one or both sides.".. Legally, these concepts must be unified but at the same time unified according to their meaningful exercise. Third parties who claim their own claims for a dispute should state these requirements to both parties: the prosecutor and the defendant, as defined in the Ukrainian KAS. The claim of the possibility to file a complaint against one of the parties, as indicated in the CDC and the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, must be deleted, since otherwise there is a difference in the legal concept of participation. [[Article 32 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure and article 23 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure]] When demands are made by several plaintiffs to one defendant or one plaintiff to several defendants. As a result, the bill proposes new editions of the relevant rules of the HLC, the CDC and the KAS of Ukraine. The other one. In the second part of article 129 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and status of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u143	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u144	That the judge's salary consists of the salaries and benefits of seniority, being in an administrative position in court, a scientific degree, a job that provides for access to the State's secret. This content of the law is inaccuracies. Because, first of all, a scientific grant cannot be regarded as a court award, because it is a total supplement for all employees who have a degree in science, and such supplements are regulated by other general acts. Secondly, Ukrainian legislation establishes an honorary title and general order of payments for those to whom such titles are assigned. Failure to pay such payments to judges in this article is a violation of their employment rights. Part one of article 131 of the Ukrainian Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges sets out a list of the different types of activities that are included in the post of judge. In view of the imperatives of this article, this list is exhaustive. However, this article does not take into account the provisions of article 20 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", which provides for the time of the National MP's work in the Supreme Council. On the basis of article 131 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine should be aligned. And the final proposal is to amend article 6 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act. I recall that the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 30 September 2010 was renewed in the Constitution of Ukraine in 1996 and therefore part of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine. This article provides for a countersignatory procedure when a judge is appointed to the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine by decree of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u145	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u146	I'm going to remind you that this is a constitutional requirement. That is why I propose my bill to bring Ukraine's Constitutional Court Act into line, in particular article 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u147	Thank you, thank you. Please, the head of the Justice Committee's Subcommittee on Ljovczyn Yuli Volodymyrna. The committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u148	The Supreme Council Committee on Justice discussed at its meeting on 16 March 2011 the draft Act No. 7371 amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the implementation in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the harmonization of the provisions of procedural legislation]] My fellow MP, the national deputy of Shishkin, has already made a detailed report on the purpose and purpose of the bill. So I'm not going to talk about it here. All I'm going to say is that the bill provides for amendments to the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine, the Civil Code, the Code of Procedure, the Code of Master Procedure, the laws of Ukraine on the judiciary and the status of judges, and the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Some comments are made in the bill, including the lack of grounds for adopting legal novelties that would in fact impose legislative restrictions on ways and options to protect a third party's rights. On the contrary, the relevant provisions of the procedural codes should provide for a better possibility of bringing a suit to a third party, both on the one hand and on both sides. The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice, the experts of the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Academy of Legal Sciences do not support the proposed harmonization of procedural codes for third parties. Some remarks are made regarding the judge’s remuneration and allowances, the judge’s employment, the mandatory contradiction of the President’s decree on the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court and the view that the bill should be returned requires substantial work. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, also made a number of observations and recommended that the first reading of the bill return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. However, on the committee, when the deputy Shishkin came to us, we found certain, certain, such serious ones in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u149	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u150	I'll finish. In the light of what has been said, the committee believes that it is possible to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill on first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for this discussion. Anatoly Matvienko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u152	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u153	Ruslan Knazevich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u154	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I thank Anatoly Sergiyovich for his word. What's the bill? Just so we have an idea, or we always vote like that, maybe we don't even finish reading this bill. He regulates, as for me, two of the most important questions. The first is the amendment to the Constitutional Court Act. In fact, we now have a fairly serious legal gap that relates to the appointment of a third of the judges of the Constitutional Court as one of the sources of the formation of this court. This is about the President of Ukraine. The 106th article of the Constitution provided for paragraph 22, which gave the President the right to do so. And the last part of 106 of the article says that this paragraph falls under the requirement of so - called countersignance. So the President can't do this kind of action in a so-called discretionary way, that is, in his own judgment. He must enlist the support of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Profiles. In this case, it's the minister of justice. And so the author of the legislative initiative proposes that there be no problem, for example, when the Prime Minister or the Minister of Profiles refuses to sign the document, he will not be legally empowered under the Constitution. In order for this not to happen, it is absolutely logical that, before the President appoints a person to his office, he would consult at least with those people who would then have to fasten this document with their signatures and with the President, among other things, to allocate three responsibilities for the work of a judge of the Constitutional Court. Not to buy a cat in a bag. Because sometimes we've been in Ukrainian history, I'm not talking about right now, but there have been cases where those who needed to respond to these draft decrees have only been informed by the media. And in reverse, the reverse number was on the reverse side of the order to put their signatures, not even getting to know the individual. In order for this to happen, let's at least support this part of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u155	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u156	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Our parliamentary group has been thoroughly familiar with this bill. And, you know, talking about this bill is kind of weird. What about him? It's got everything mixed up in it. There are things we're willing to support. There are things that we don't think are entirely correct that could be worked out in the second reading. There are things that we think should be rejected. But there is one principle that, in our view, should still be fundamental in legislation. There must be a specific subject of regulation. In this case, it's all consumption. There's a question there about the job placement, there's a question of contrasting -- anything. Well, it probably doesn't have to be a way of drafting drafts, because to determine the final position in voting, when the bill has completely different directions of regulation, completely different topics, completely different objects, probably not possible in the room. Because if I support, let's say, part of the wording, and part of it is definitely against, then probably the easiest thing in this case would be to recommend to the Supreme Council to send the author to work, and to get the author, by really identifying specific directions in this bill, to implement them not in one bill, but in two or three, where he would really be a clear and specific subject of regulation in each one of them, a separate subject of regulation. So our proposal in this case to vote on the headings for further work and once separate bills are put in place, where there are clear formulations on certain specific subjects of regulation, we will be able to make some of them, in part, have a negative decision. In this case, first of all, because of these organizational moments, the procedural moments, we can't. The proposal for reprocessing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill needs to be finalized. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on bringing in compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the harmonization of procedural legislation]] [[Registration number 7371]] Please vote. [[13:29:11]] For-36 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. [[Registration number 7371]] Please vote. [[13:29:39]] For-57 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently reviewing the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts. [[concerning the powers of the Scientific Advisory Council before the Supreme Court of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 8032]] At the same time, honourable colleagues, a committee will meet tomorrow to consider the bill. So I have a request, let's put it off and move it to Thursday. No objections? Thank you. Then tomorrow, the committee will consider it, and on Thursday, we will practically discuss it in the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is given to the draft Act amending the Law on the Higher Council of Justice and the Code of Administrative Offences for the Implementation of the Decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8246, 8246-2]] I'm betting on a vote to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:30:58]] For 196 Decision taken. Reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Schustik Olena Juryivna on Bill 8246. As far as Bill 8246-2 is concerned, there is no reporter, but I think the committee will report on its attitude to this second bill. The Coroner is the head of the Justice Committee's subcommittee, Julia Volodymyrovn Ljovckin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u158	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In its decision of 11 March this year, the Constitutional Court noted that the extermination by the Higher Council of Justice of any judicial material, originals or copies prior to the final decision in the case is an intervention in the exercise of justice. It is therefore proposed that the provisions of the Law on the Superior Council of Justice, the Code on Administrative Offences, be brought into line with the decision of the Constitutional Court. I would like to remind you that such powers were granted by the Supreme Council of Justice in May of last year. The Venice Commission recognized the danger of such authorizations by the High Council of Justice regarding the extermination of judicial cases and expressed its comments to this law on page 15. In particular, by stressing that the provision of documents on matters pending may be viewed as an indication of the decision to make in the matter. This undermines the independence of judges, guaranteed by the Constitution, which is primarily about their independence, not about the exercise of justice by any circumstance or other than the law, by will. Dear colleagues! The proposed legislative changes are aimed at establishing the independence and independence of the judiciary, and the functions of the Supreme Council of Justice will be returned to the constitutional order. This is particularly important in current conditions when justice in Ukraine is applied selectively and judges are used for political purposes and purposes. That is, by the way, the Council of Europe concluded last week in its very hard and specific resolution. Instead, alternative bill 8246-2 of the People's MP Sergio Kiwalov essentially leaves behind the Higher Council of Justice the unconstitutional possibility of controlling and influencing judges, since the author leaves in his project the right to review cases that are pending before the High Council of Justice. Studying the personal affairs of the judges, getting them from them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u159	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u160	I thank you for your attention, and I suggest you make a balanced and right choice, because you are using the justice system in the same way and you will continue to use it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u161	Thank you, too. Head of the Committee on Justice, Ljovczyn Ulya Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u162	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice discussed at its meeting on 20 April 2011 the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on the Higher Council of Justice and the Code of Administrative Offences on the Implementation of the Decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[8246]] I also considered two other bills: 8246-1, which was then revoked, and 8246-2, which is an alternative to the bill. Both bills suggest that the articles of these laws be brought into conformity with the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Bill 8246 provides for amendments to articles 25 and 40 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice and article 188, 32 of the Code of Administrative Offences with a view to bringing them into line with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which the rapporteur referred to. In line with the conclusion of the First reading of Bill 8046, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, it is appropriate to re-establish the right of the legislative initiative to work. The bill, registration number 8246-2, proposed a new edition of article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on the Higher Council of Justice, which provides, inter alia, that, in connection with the execution of the mandate, a member of the High Council of Justice may require only those concluded by a judicial hearing or a copy thereof, to examine cases that have not been completed; to obtain explanations from judges or prosecutors; to make appropriate inquiries; to study the individual cases of judges and prosecutors. It is predicted that the information, case or copy of the case are provided on a written request from the High Council of Justice, a member of the High Council of Justice, within 10 days of receiving such a request. In this regard, it is also suggested that a contribution be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u163	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u164	I'm done. According to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the first reading of Bill 8246-2 can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made by the Office. The committee also proposes to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine bill 8246-2 to be adopted on first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u165	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u166	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! In terms of these two bills, each one has its own logic, and each one has its own problem spots. But regulating them is narrow enough. And that's why it makes sense today to adopt one of the bills to work on the second reading, to have the opportunity, to have an additional tool to be able to be in that branch of power, which unfortunately today is recognized by the people of Ukraine as particularly corrupt, to have an instrument of influence. The Supreme Council of Justice for today is very often without this instrument of influence, using certain political nuances and so forth, making decisions, taking certain ways, removing materials, and sometimes making appropriate decisions without material. In our view, of the two bills presented, one has technical problems that make its implementation almost unrealistic. In the second bill. That's what I'm talking about, Mrs. Shustyk's bill. There are nuances in Mr. Kiwalov's bill that may raise some doubts as to what is given the right of representatives of the High Council of Justice to require documentation or clarification on matters currently under consideration. We have come to the conclusion in our parliamentary group that with regard to the first bill, indeed, its implementation raises very great doubts about the possibility of its implementation. In the second bill, we also warned: Would this not cause direct pressure on a judge? But we know a lot of cases when we're moving away from the few political processes that are going and going to the everyday situation, which is obviously a direct delay in the judge of the trial, direct influences, direct violations. What is happening should move us to do the same as in the process of dealing with the matter, evidently the Superior Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u167	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u168	Representatives of the High Council of Justice should have a certain mechanism, obviously it should be used as an extraordinary, rare, but still a mechanism for some control, we would agree that for the first reading and further preparation for the second reading, the Sergio Kiwalov bill is more appropriate. We'll support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! We are once again on the threshold of how we can implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. He forbade the need for copies of the case’s material. At the same time, the Constitution stipulates that there must be a right in the Supreme Council of Justice, and it must be guaranteed, and that is also human rights. And I want to tell you that a practical implementation, a practical study shows what the absence and any control leads to when you can't get to the point. We have repeatedly turned from the committee to the High Council of Justice, and directly to ourselves. Things were hidden from us, and they simply did not show up even when they were finished. I'll give you a little example. For example, we asked the question that the Plain Court had such a head as Today’s who had drawn the case. Let us say that the European Court of Human Affairs is now obliged to pay 5,000,300 euros in the Olenz case. This is a huge amount in view of international legislation. For what? For more than 14 years, the case had not been considered. Think about it. And we don't give any authority in the state, we say, no one has to see what's there, because it's not over. As a result, there must be a well - prescribed mechanism under which to look and see. In view of this, I support the bill and the colleagues of Shustik, Sobolev, Bolura and Kowsel, and the Kiwalov bill in the direction that control should be ensured. Another question is that it should be provided in a constitutional way and within constitutional boundaries, including the protection of citizens' rights. That's why I'm here to adopt these bills and put them together in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u171	Thank you, too. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am primarily talking to lawyers who work in the session room, not the first call. Please remember, this problem is not new. As early as May 2002, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine indicated that knowledge, but without the right to prosecute an outstanding case, does not mean that the trial is essentially an intervention in the justice process. [[paragraph 5 of paragraph 6 of the motivational part]] That is, the Constitutional Court has approached this issue once before. In this case, the bill of colleague Shustik and authors, the bill of colleague Kiwalov, certainly deserves attention and support because it is the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning article 25 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice and article 188 of the Code of Administrative Offences. But let's say in general: the independence of the judicial branch of power cannot mean uncontrolledness. In some ways, the Supreme Council of Justice should find its place in control of the activity or omission of a judicial institution. So I think this bill can be accepted for second reading, a bill marked 2 on the first reading as a basis. Without any reduced procedures, according to the full program of lawyers, lawyers should sit down and read. Because we have to figure out all the possible consequences that may be, if we continue to leave behind the recommendation of the Constitutional Court, which specifically indicated that we cannot be destroyed, but that we can be consulted in the previous edition of the Constitutional Court on 21 May 2002 without the right to seek a court case that has not been brought before us. So, I think the profiling committee is above this bill, this bill is really very important, and it may have a huge social-political impact, so we need to keep working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt Bill 8246-2 as a basis. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. Bill 8246 is of the view that it is appropriate to give the subjects the right of legislative initiative back to work and 8246-2 to accept as a basis. Dear National MPs, according to the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law, by Helen Schustik. [[Registration number 8246]] This is a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice and the Code of Administrative Offences for the Implementation of the Decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Again, registration number 8246. [[13:45:18]] For-45 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law, the author, Sergey Kiwalov, to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[Registration number 8246-2]] [[on the introduction of separate provisions of effective legislation in accordance with Decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine No. 2-rp/2011 of 11 March 2011]] Please vote. [[13:46:04]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I propose to you the draft Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on the One Customs Tariff. [[on the exemption from payment of goods for the construction and equipping of airports that are subjects of the championship]] [[Registration number 8062]] There is a suggestion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:46:41]] For 210 Decision taken. Both the reporter and the co-reporter are Pinchuk Andri Pavlovich. Please have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u174	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Preparation and holding at the right level of the Euro - 2012 football finals is one of the strategic tasks of our state. Which will not only be important for the creation of a positive image in Ukraine and the world, but will also give a powerful impetus to its further socio-economic development. The purpose and purpose of the bill is to release the airports of the cities that accept the final part of the Euro-2012 football championship from the payment of import duties in the purchase of equipment for airports, terminal complexes and ground services. In the process of preparing the Euro-2012 airports, there was a need to equip them with appropriate airport equipment to service non-produced aircraft passengers in Ukraine and to import abroad. The equipment will be used exclusively for airport requirements. The technology available today at airports, its number, and its technical state, are unable to ensure the proper level of service for aircraft and passengers. Both in the final part of Euro-2012 and after it was conducted for the operation of reconstructed airports. The purchase of the above equipment is envisaged at the expense of the State Budget. The total estimated cost of equipment can be about 2 billion 373 million dollars. At such a cost, the projected amount of money that will not reach the government budget in the coming periods from the payment of import duties will amount to some 207 million dollars. But in the current period, this is the same amount of government budget spending. In addition, the exemption from import duties, in the course of such purchases, will reduce the pressure on Ukraine’s State budget. At the expense of which funds are expected to be made during the current period and the need for additional government loans. The bill was adopted on the basis of a profile committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Given the importance of the law, I ask the honourable national deputies to support the bill. And I'd like to make a statement about the position of the committee. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 20 April 2011 discussed the draft Law on the Single Customs Tariff. [[8062]] The committee recommends that it be accepted as a basis. During the discussion of the bill, however, Ukrainian national deputies and committee members noted that the draft law envisions an expansion of the circle of goods that fall under the tax system. At the same time, the bill does not provide the codes of the corresponding product groups according to the UTZED. The indicated product codes in the committee are processed and will be placed in a comparative table for the second reading. Taking this into account, please support the committee’s decision. Dear colleagues, please accept the law as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u175	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for the performance. Names of the national deputies. Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u176	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It is understandable that in order for us to be able to conduct the Euro - 2012 in a timely manner, all objects must be, as you know, not only funded but also given up in time. So I realized that we need to do a general promotion. But if we could see some specific parameters of this. At what points, then, did the articles show that there would be unanimity support. And that's why our group makes their comments about the project in question so that the refinements are all said to be material groups that enable them to avoid taxes. And that's why I don't think that without these clarifications we can support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u177	Yes, Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u178	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable national MPs, the bill provides for the introduction of a change to the part of article 19 of the Ukrainian Act "The One Customs Tariff" aimed at the release by 1 September 2012 of the customs duty on goods other than those that are not produced in Ukraine or produced, but do not meet the technical characteristics of the world level and the requirements of international sports organizations to be used for construction and equipment, the acquisition of equipment and inventory, airports that are the subjects of the championship. The need for adoption of the project is based primarily on the need to ensure that aircraft and passengers are properly serviced at Ukrainian airports during the 2012 final part of the European Championship from football in Ukraine. Dear People's Deputies, this bill should be considered in the context of improving the quality of the Euro-2012 training and implementation. From the quality and beauty of the Euro-2012, from the extent to which the infrastructure, sports facilities, hotels, airports will be prepared, this will ultimately have an impact on the image and reputation of our country in the international arena. Regrettably, sometimes we lower our reputation by our actions, and the image of the country, to say the least, weakens. There is also an opportunity to raise the image, the reputation of the country through the quality training and implementation of the Euro-2012. In this context, the adoption of the bill should be considered. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u179	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! That's strange: on the same day, we take a pension from a person, a penny that they got, and that explains that it's an economy of money. Even though it's a robbery, on behalf of the state, it's a robbery. Here we're dealing to the left and to the right, we don't even know how much we're dealing, we just don't know. And we say, "The reputation of the state suffers." Yeah, he's suffering. It suffers when you open up migratory flows here and you don't want to fight it, you have a reputation. The reputation of this selective policy that is being carried out suffers. It suffers from the promise that Euro will be such a project that will involve investment, and this project will be revealed to dissipate government funds! It's already happened that I'm working on Lviv right now, and it's like 700 million people were being sprayed! Donetsk's how dusty you are! In other fields! Then let them know clearly how far it is to be scattered! Give me some information. To see where the conclusions of the Ukrainian Customs Council are on this matter!? Where, in accordance with article 5 of the Single Customs Tariff Act, is this consideration of these bills to be concluded? Where is the reference to the Codex Budget?Oh, my God! There's nothing to it! There's no involvement of private equity! Moreover, the people responsible for this are being financed by other states by the Deputy Prime Minister. And that's where the money goes! Is that how we want to get the money into Ukraine? It's okay. It's okay. And they say, but it doesn't count, 250 million more put there, 250 million put there, in dollars, of course! Dear friends! So I want us to have a similar approach right now! Let's, according to the law, let the government put the help -- where, how much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u181	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u182	And in that situation, when you're shutting down the hospital, and you're shutting down the hospital, you're cutting schools! And here we're opening up for 2 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u183	Thank you, thank you, thank you. All I have to do is say we're not closing anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u184	Not us, they're closing!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u185	They're different. Let's deal with them. Yuri Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u186	Faction of the People's Party, Kirovgrad. I'd like to give it to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u187	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u188	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! So I'm watching and I'm reading the Euro-2012 bills. And frankly, is there a question, not a black hole? Well, what brings me to that point. Look, when the state is going to take a serious international action, there must be a plan to do what needs to be done, what needs to be released. And that's a plan everyone should know about. And so from time to time, a week from now, two new bills are coming out of release, underpaid, overpaid, and so forth. Dear colleagues, there's a question, and there's a balance in the state between benefits and expenses, is that really a black hole? I don't want to deny it, it's normal for the state to build airports, hotels and so forth, but away from the airports. By the way, not all of them are state-owned, you know, there's private capital and how to be with him, who's going to be using the private sector of those airports after 2012. As for the hotels, the hotels are all private, and there's the benefits to these hotels all the time, everything else. And after 2012, will the state be at least a minority shareholder in these hotels? It won't. Dear colleagues, you have to count. Normal countries, normal societies count what they do. There's gotta be a balance. We need to know the price of the question. In this bill, I don't know the price of the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-14-m0.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Act on Amendments to Article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Single Customs Tariff. [[on the exemption from payment of goods for the construction and equipping of airports that are subjects of the championship]] [[Registration number 8062]] [[13:58:34]] For 227 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 178, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense", the Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, the People's Party – 19, the non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, since there is one word about "airports," if we have already voted it as a basis, if there is no objection, we should either accept it as a whole or not accept it. Is there a denial? I guess so. One minute, there's a denial. I would like to vote on the commission of the committee to prepare for the second reading of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:59:29]] For 228 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, at 16 o'clock we will continue to consider the bills that we have included in the agenda and that are prepared for consideration and have been properly discussed by the committees. So I'd like everyone to be in my workplace. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00.
