ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests and invited Supreme Council! People's deputies are requested to prepare for registration. Turn on the glade system, we're registering. [[10:00:31]] There are 381 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Today, distinguished colleagues celebrate their next birthday, Vitaly Dmitrovitch Barwinenko. Let's welcome him. Let me inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on June 2, 2011. We discussed 34 issues of the agenda with you yesterday. As a result of their consideration, 8 laws and 2 decrees were passed, 7 bills were passed on the basis, 1 bill was sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, 2 bills returned to the subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, 2 bills returned to the Committee for further elaboration, and 10 bills were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law was adopted in a new edition after the committee was redrafted, 1 law was rejected. The head performs government functions. Today, you know, a meeting of the Council of Regions in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. He is a member of the Council of the Regions. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, “the hour of questions to the Government” is held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. Representatives of the MPs made a proposal to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the impact of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance's activities on the socio-economic status of the State and its international image during the "hour of questions to the Government". Today, Ukraine’s finance minister, Feder Aleksijovich, will answer questions from the national deputies. I'm inviting him to the rostrum. 30 minutes are the answers to written questions, and such written questions have come from the MP factions of the Party of the Regions, the "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" Block of the People's Party. And then we'll take 30 minutes to ask our lips. Please, Fedor Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u2	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ministry of Finance, as finance minister, have been asked written questions by the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". First question. Please explain the four-fold variance between the government's unreparable VAT and the Court of Auditors. [[Ukraine]] First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Andry Klyev, stated that this amount does not exceed 3 billion dollars today. At the same time, according to the report of the Court of Auditors, on April 1, the amount of unreparable VAT leftovers is more than four times the amount of $12.6 billion. When does automatic VAT return work not only for the chosen ones? Ladies and gentlemen, the government has taken fantastic steps to address the VAT problem that has arisen in our country. As early as 2010, the government had implemented this problem, legislatively, because of the State Budget Act you passed, where the problem was practically unlocked and the outstanding VAT payments were repaid, and timely tax compensation for the added value was provided through money financing to compensate for the added value. Also in 2010, the legislative government also settled with you for the future, 2011 so that this problem would disappear completely. What is the state of affairs for today? On June 1, 16.7 billion dollars were compensated, which is 2.6 times more than last year’s. To that end, we deliberately went to automatic reparations, a thing that no country in the world is using. At present, I want to tell you that, according to the May and April months, automatic VAT compensation is reimbursed to owners between 50 percent and 70 percent. Automatic VAT compensation is fully anticipated by the end of this year. As for the article in The Mirror of the Week, it's about different indicators. The account room was named the number of 12.6 billion dollars, which is unreparable VAT on future payments, while First Deputy Prime Minister Andri Petrovich Kljev talked about the termed balance of unpaid taxes on the added value of the current account. Next question. As a result of the May audit this year by the Office of the Attorney General of the State Tax Service, it has been established that the State Tax Service has violated the Tax Code by approving this year's Order No. 42 of January this year the practice of unlawfully taking the tax declaration into account, thus restricting the right of payers who are entitled to the automatic compensation of the added value tax. Despite the provisions of the Tax Code, the authorities of the State Tax Service have taken into account 3.5 thousand VAT declarations with a total supply of 4.4 billion dollars. In 2011, there were 300 declarations with a supply of 2.4 billion dollars. Why has the Ministry of Finance been quietly observing discrimination and lawlessness since January? Why is the government’s public accounts a peaceful source of funds that entrepreneurs have been deprived of? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important issue of compliance with tax law. He's getting a lot of attention right now. And checks by the Attorney General's Office are one of the important links to the expanding control system. And no one is insured from mistakes. And now the State Tax Service is working to correct the violations found by the Attorney General's Office, and I, as a finance minister, am also actively involved in making the issue more orderly. Changes have already been made to improve the procedure for determining the taxpayer's compliance with the criteria allowing for automatic reimbursement of the added value tax. These changes will allow the matter to be completely closed. Next question. Ukraine's Prime Minister, Mikola Azarov, stated that negotiations with the IMF on the renewal of co-operation are primarily based on Ukraine's economic and social interests. Explain as a direct participant in negotiations with the IMF, to the extent appropriate to the economic and social interests of Ukraine and Ukraine's rising retirement age and gas prices for the population. Will the IMF decide on the possibility of providing Ukraine with another one-and-a-half billion dollars of credit to the bay stand. What are the chances that the IMF will stop working with Ukraine? Ladies and gentlemen, it has turned out that the pension system has undergone minimal changes in our country. The transformations that we have just started today have long gone through developed countries and continue to improve the entire pension system. Therefore, more than 18 percent of GDP needs to be spent in Ukraine for the needs we need to address pension insurance. And this indicator, it's the highest in the world. So we really need reforms to balance the whole system so that our Ukrainians can live extremely richly. And the reforms we need today are not for the IMF, but for our economy to develop, and on the basis of economic growth, we have improved people's well-being. Now what can be said about rising gas prices. It is not important for the government to increase the price of gas, but rather to clean it up from a variety of bumps, nonproductive costs, because they are burdened by the population. Therefore, the policy pursued by the President of our State, who, literally, took part in a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for days, gave specific tasks in order to regulate and resolve tariff problems. The position of Ukraine that we stand for applies only to the mechanisms and periods of reforms that are needed in Ukraine. As far as the IMF is concerned, we have a constructive work going on, and the IMF program continues, no one has stopped it, we have different consultations to get up right in those software documents that provide for all the tranches that need to be given to Ukraine to support the balance of payments to come at the right time. Next question. Why did the Ukrainian government lose the opportunity to appoint one of the directors of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development? Why did Ukraine not submit a written application in time to sign up for additional EBRD emissions? How do you appreciate the fact that Ukraine’s interests in the EBRD will now be represented by a director from Switzerland? How do you feel about the statement made by the Secretary-General of the Finance Ministry of Victor Kassarczuk that we have not lost the position of Director of the EBRD, but have strengthened our position because she denies the view of the Head of the Directorate-General for International Relations of President Andry Honcharuk that the loss of this post is not good for Ukraine? Who should be responsible here? Ladies and gentlemen, I can directly say that Ukraine has become a hostage to fierce competition for leadership positions at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Because you know that our lives go competitively on all the chains, especially on this issue. We applied on time for the appointment of our director. Yet Romania has applied to leave our group of countries and join the latter in leading Turkey. This means that it supported Turkey, which implemented the same scenario as it did during the spring meetings of the IMF and the World Bank in 2011 in Washington, evaluating the creation of its own group. I would also like to inform you that during the general meetings held from May 20 to May 21 in Astana, a series of extremely fruitful meetings took place with the EBRD leadership and the relevant staff of other countries in the EBRD. The work resulted in a transformation of Ukraine’s representation to the EBRD. Thus, Ukraine has not lost its influence, but, indeed, I agree that Andrew Honcharuk said that this is a loss, but at the same time we are counting on the measures that we are taking to ensure that we do not lose, but to strengthen our positions in Europe and join an office headed by one of the most influential shareholders of the EBRD, which is Switzerland. This will enable Ukraine, as a state, to participate actively in geopolitical processes with the expansion of the same EBRD. Moreover, Ukraine received an influential partner in Switzerland. In addition, I would like to point out that on 15 May 2011, the Board of Directors of the EBRD approved a new strategy for the Bank's 2011-2014 activity, which provides for funding for development projects of at least 1 billion euros a year. The level of investment of the EBRD depends on how successfully Ukraine will improve conditions for entrepreneurial activities and implement reforms, such as creating a transparent tax regime and, indeed, an independent judicial system. The Bank is trying to improve business practices for companies, recipients of EBRD funds and find ways to expand credit in national currency, as is the case in some countries of the GNI. Now, questions have been raised from the factions of the Party of Regions, since the first deputy head of Chechov Mikhail Vasilovich. First question. The last month of the first half began. Is the government counting on the budget? Dear National Deputies! I want to tell you that, based on a qualitatively new basis, on innovative approaches to project management and management, the 2011 budget is being implemented successfully. Effective income management has produced results. The income part of the budget is stable and full. Within 5 months, it was possible to increase the government budget by a third compared to the corresponding period of last year. There is a steady trend towards increasing the pace of overrun of indicative indicators, the revenue of the State Budget General Fund. I'm just going to give an example that we've already received more than 5 billion dollars for January-May this year, as provided for by the State Budget Act 2011. The January-May budget has reached 140.4 billion dollars, representing 102.7 dollars from the plan. The State budget had reached 110.8 billion dollars, representing 103.3 dollars. Local budgets accounted for 29.6 billion, 100.4 percent. They're practically all budgeted. the income portion of all budgets is implemented in all directions. The general budget of the State budget for January-May this year has spent 105.6 billion dollars against the same period last year, increasing by 16.6 percent. High performance rates have enabled the budget to be implemented at a deficit level that is much lower than planned. Such a positive budget implementation dynamic gives reason not only to expect the full implementation of the budget targets in the coming months, but also to ensure that they are recuperated, allowing for the adoption of an additional budget for the tasks of the President, the decisions of the Government, the Supreme Council on raising social standards for financing economic development programmes. Next question. When the Tax Code was adopted, the tax burden on the economy was reduced. What is the result of the increase in the budget’s income? Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly said that in five months we were able to increase the government budget by a third compared to the corresponding period of last year. This has been possible as a result of the stabilization of the economy, which received more than 150 billion financial support last year, and this year shows a certain dynamic growth. During the five months of this year, the economy received nearly 8 billion budget funds, 4.4 times more than last year. Tax legislation to reduce tax burden is a powerful additional investment resource for business entities. Its size is over 40 billion dollars. It's the cost of developing production, of producing new products, of paying workers, and so on. Infrastructural energy-saving projects are being implemented under budget support. Major support was received from the financing of Euro-2012 objects, which increased to 20 billion dollars in the current year. The stability of government finances must also be taken into account. The budget funds its liabilities in time. The situation of VAT compensation has improved, and citizens’ incomes have increased. Everything has a positive impact on the revenue of the budget, which will continue to grow in the process of implementing reforms and their impact. Next question. From year to year, local budgets have far exceeded planned revenues. Will this trend continue this year? Certainly, yes, the distinguished national MPs. Because we plan not to overload the local budgets, but to actually plan them. Therefore, the 2011 budget is built on a new model of inter-budget relations that conceptually changes the role of local budgets and their managers in the Ukrainian budget system. The introduction of new budgeting approaches is designed to increase the local budget’s resource base by 16.2 billion. This will also allow us to contribute effectively. create an effective system of local finance management and ensure sustained economic growth in the regions. The result is that there's an increase in income from local budgets in January/May to 29.6 billion -- 2.4 billion more than last year. Overestimated estimates amounted to 100.4 percent. The increase in local budgets compared to the same period in 2000 was taxed on the income of natural persons as the main source of local budgets, with 20.1 billion from the beginning of the year, 9 percent, or 1.6 billion more against the same period last year. Local communities received 4.2 billion dollars for land, an increase of 3.8 million or 152 million. Compared to the previous year, 482 million dollars were raised. In general, budgetary policy envisages further expansion of local budgets, an increase in their role in socio-economic development. The next question is that regions are constantly complaining about the lack of funds coming from the State Budget. What's going on here, what's Minfin doing to help the regions? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that money is never enough, especially in today's situation, when both the economy and the social sphere require considerable resources for their development. That is why we work in line with the financial capacity of the budget, trying to respond quickly to all the problems and challenges faced by local budgets, to help the regions to solve their financial problems as much as possible. In doing so, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine fully ensures the implementation of the recalculation obligations from the State Budget for local budgets for inter-budget transfers. Yes, so far, there's a total of 18.1 billion dollars. A similar situation with regard to financing regions for social subsidies and social and economic development subsidies, which local budgets have received an entirely appropriate allocation of 15.7 billion dollars from the State budget. In five months this year, local budgets received more than 8.1 billion dollars from the State Budget. Next question. The president and the government are fully declaring their concern for people, promising to increase wages for teachers, doctors, and other budget workers. When will these promises become a reality? Dear National Deputies! The 2011 state budget, approved by you on the proposals of the government and signed by the President of Ukraine, envisions raising social standards, increasing wages, creating new jobs because of economic growth. And all of this, I've already told you, is being funded automatically, and our citizens are getting all these incentives. The budget provides for substantial regional subsidies to provide for social needs, which are fully funded according to the budget schedule. The total amount of social protection subsidies in January-May was 14.8 billion and increased against the same period by 5 billion or 1.5 times. The subsidy to help families with children amounted to 10.9 billion, 2.3 percent or 26.2 percent more than last year. Since the beginning of the year, the government's decision has already doubled the number of employees in the first level of the EU’s staff, namely: from 1 January it was set at 613 and from 1 April to 625 in the month. Recently, on May 11, the government made a decree to increase the salaries of budget workers. In particular, this decree increases the salary size of the employees according to the single tariff grid. The additional costs will also be aimed at increasing the difference between the official salaries of the first and seventh tariff levels. Over the course of the year, this will result in an increase in salaries for teachers in the higher category by more than 340 bracelets, for a surgeon in the higher category by 360, for a professional therapist by 309 bracelets. All the necessary expenditure in the budget will be and in the proposals that we will make for changes to the government's budget. In addition, the government’s decision stated that from January of the following year, health workers would receive an additional 20 percent of the allowance. And it's also an unforgettable social protection agency that will receive a 20% bonus as of September of this year. This will ensure an annual increase in the employee’s salary by 370 dollars. Next question. In time, the State decided to save some commercial banks. She put a lot of money into them, and you can't see the results. When's the bank's bloodline depositor getting the money? I want to report to you, honourable national deputies, that, in fact, during the financial crisis, the state took part in the capitalization of three banks: Rodowdow, Kiev and Krukgazbank. In general, by increasing the statutory capital of these banks, the government’s capital injection into the statutory capital was 25 billion dollars. In fact, the State has taken on the protection of investors’ interests — over 900,000. The most difficult problem was at the Blood Bank. Today's government to protect investors' interests and end the crisis in the Rodod Bank, the government, together with the National Bank, has made a decision to transfer the deposit liability to VAT "Saved" to individuals and to the extent of the bank's assets of 3 billion 950 million dollars. As soon as the commitment was accepted, the investor registration process began with VAT savings. I want you all to know that for today, virtually all the problems in "The Roderion" are settled. Today, almost 100,000 investors have been registered in the V.A.T. Savings Act and have already received more than 46.3 thousand funds or wanted to deposit in the V.A.T. Savings. There are 2.5 billion dollars to be paid, of which 800 million have already been converted by depositors of the Bank's Family into deposits of the Reserve VAT. It is estimated that the rest of the deposit will be paid by the end of August of this year. At this peak load, we plan on what will happen in July of this year. Questions were also raised by the faction of the People’s Party, the head of the Sharov faction, Igor Fedorovich. First question. International ratings show that Ukraine is taking its last place under the tax system, and entrepreneurs are also complaining. What is the government’s plan to do to remedy the situation? I want to tell you, honourable national deputies, and remind you at the same time that the adoption of the tax code has taken place for more than 19 years, and only the current government has taken responsibility for its development and adoption. The results of today are already talking about themselves and show that the Tax Code has given impetus to the accelerated development of the economy. The ratings you're talking about are based on an estimate of the period that preceded the adoption of the Tax Code. The main thing for the economy and business to work was to work comfortably in an updated tax system. Next question. Recently, the Supreme Council adopted the main directions of budgetary policy for 2012. How do they work out? Has the 2012 budget process begun? Ladies and gentlemen, the budget policy for the following year continues to implement key priorities in 2010-2011. It's about raising the social standards of people's lives and ensuring a stable growth in the economy. The main directions of budgetary policy for 2012 are to reduce the budget deficit to 2.5 per cent of GDP, to reduce the share of GDP over the budget to 28.7 per cent, to maintain government debt at an economically safe level, not more than 30 per cent of GDP. The maintenance of these strained parameters is based on a substantial acceleration in economic development, which is expected to increase GDP by 6.5 GDP in terms of slowing inflation, the stability of exchange policies and the activation of employment. The Ministry of Finance has begun active work on the development of the main financial document for the following year. The 2012 budget will be the first budget of an independent Ukraine based on the introduction of medium-term budgetary planning with clear fiscal and expenditure orientations. At present, work is being done with the main budget managers on the composition of the basic provisions, the main directions of budgetary policy for 2012. In addition, the number of budget programmes for 2012 is being optimized. On the basis of the information provided, Minfin will develop marginal spending and lending for 2012 at indicative projected expenditure levels, lending for 2013-14 years. Detailed information on budget implementation will be provided to the Supreme Council along with the draft State Budget Act 2012. Next question. When the 2012 budget was approved, it was envisaged to review some of its implementation. Recently, the President spoke about the possibility of increasing funding for individual directions. Is it real or is there a basis for adjustment of income and expenditure? Indeed, yes, the distinguished national MPs. I'll just say a few words. What I've told you is that we've already got 5.1 billion in five months to make amends to the income part of the budget. And in four months, we have a real growth in industry by 8.5, construction by 11.6, real pay went up by 10.8 and real GDP growth in the first half of the year, we're planning to make up 5.2 percent. This creates the conditions for clarifying the forecast of the main macroeconomic indicators for 2011, which is currently in place. And I think the next week, the government is going to make changes to the detailed macro-indicators. And on this basis, changes to the State Budget Act 2011 will be developed. Next question. Will our budget sustain the ever-increasing need for financing the Euro-2012? What does Minfin do to make the Euro happen? I want to tell all the people's deputies that we have a normal funding and that the budget is sufficiently balanced and that all the problems that are in Euro will be funded in the current year in the planned ranges without any challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u3	Yes, dear colleagues, you have received the answers to your written questions. Please sign up for oral questions. Yes, please, 30 minutes: 1 minute, 2 minutes, to answer. Please, Fedor Aleksiowiovich, take a two-minute walk with an answer. Igor Green.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u4	Please pass on the word of Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u5	Samerak's tail, microphone, please. The next one's a digger.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u6	Mr. Secretary, I would like to return you to the question of what happened in Astana and related to Ukraine's participation in the EBRD. In fact, you were wrong to answer a written question about whether Ukraine had won or lost. I'd like to help you with that. Ukraine, of course, lost. Because Ukraine, according to the official website of the EBRD, led the group and represented the interests of Romania, Moldova, Georgia, and Armenia. Now Ukraine has moved into another group, where the Swiss will represent our interests along with other serious financial countries, such as Kyrgyzstan and Azerbaijan. The question is. Why didn't you lead the group as required by the EBRD? What will happen to Ukraine after such events in Astana, and how this will affect Chernobyl programs and, for example, energy conservation programs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, the following are also interested in asking questions. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u8	Thank you for asking. But I would like to emphasize that we can criticize each other at any time now, but time will tell. And I want to tell you what we need now, on the contrary, to take measures that don't tell us what's going to get worse or worse, and I'm saying in a professional way that the issue of work in the EBRD is a matter of time. And today, the government and I, as finance ministers, are using new systems to work with the world's organizations to make the loans to come as effective as possible. It takes time. And in the short time that the government was working, we couldn't solve the accumulated problems that had accumulated in eight months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u9	Please, Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u10	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. The effectiveness of your government's financial and economic activities is demonstrated by a letter from the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Mr. Arbuzov, who warns of the disastrous consequences of your activity. He says it with caution, and there are good reasons for it. You're bringing the country to collapse. And another reason why this is happening today is because we don't have a denunciation agreement with Cyprus, there's still Soviet legislation that exports every year, and you know that figure, 30 billion dollars -- that's 50 billion dollars tax dollars to the Ukrainian budget. You're on your knees in front of the IMF for 1.5 billion. At the same time, no government agreement has yet been made on the denunciation of the Cyprus agreement as an offshore zone. When will it be introduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u11	An extremely interesting question. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, just so you know that the government is not on its knees, we are pursuing a balanced policy to protect the interests of the citizens of our country. And we work hard with each of our creditors or partners to make our country's economies grow. Cyprus is therefore a country with which all countries of the world work, not exclusively Ukraine as one of the countries that works with it. And I want to tell you that in 19 years, somehow no government has taken any steps that it is now taking. I've already told you that the Tax Code has been spoken, and no one has done anything. As for Cyprus, the deal, we're going to have this year, I've already met twice with the Minister of Finance of Cyprus, and I'm running an extremely powerful job today to solve all these problems, and more so that they don't arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u12	Please, Yuri Litwin. After him is Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u13	The faction of the People's Party, Lithuania, Kirovgrad. Please give Vaszczuk to Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u14	Please, Katerina Vaschuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u15	Dear Fedor Alexiovich! That's my question. Today, the biggest problem in the agricultural sector is animal production, which is the milk route. Cows are cut out, and the number of cows is reduced each month. When we adopted the Tax Code, my right to speak on behalf of the faction and insist on it was that the value added tax paid by food processing companies should be paid to farmers as a subsidy to the price. On average, this increased the price somewhere near the bracelet of milk. The government insisted that this go to the Special Forces. Today, 200 out of the last million are from milk and meat, at the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u16	I'm sorry, we'll finish the cream. Please. I beg you, others are offended because we have little time to ask. Catherine Timothy, just because you're a landlady, finish up, but to others I won't be able to do that anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u17	Thank you. While 430 million were paid for milk alone during the same period last year, where is the logic behind supporting livestock by the government? Let's get back to the old system, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u18	Dear Catherine Timothy, indeed, to this day the figures you say are the same as you said. But I want to tell you that the government is now taking appropriate measures. As a minister, I've invited both taxpayers and the Ministry of Agriculture Industrial Policy. We're going to balance the costs that these programs have to pay, they're going to be fully funded and they're going to be automatically funded. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u19	Ivan Verni Dubov, Party of Regions. The next one is Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Let me ask you a question to my colleague Peckushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u21	Please, Alexander Paklusenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u22	Dear Fedor Aleksevich! How right and self-critically our opponents have said that, by bringing the country to collapse, how has our Government managed to achieve such results? You absolutely said that the main focus was on the economy. Please respond in such a "telegraph mode". First. Can we afford the International Fund? Where are they headed? The second question is of interest to all our constituents. What are we going to do about the problem of children of war? What are we going to do about the savings problem? What are we going to do about the issue of credit unions? A very important issue is the issue of social subsidies. If we take them one more time at the end of the year in order to put them off without the sums being earned, it will be wrong. Thank you in advance for the answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. As far as I'm concerned. Why we really managed to do this. This is primarily due to the stability of the financial system. You see, in order for the economy to work, that is to say, it has to be done, and the financial resources have to be the engine of economic development. So the government came together last year and put together some programs so that we could fund, support them, generate circulation costs, give them, so to speak, appropriate credit resources, give them a normative entire legal system and solve a number of challenges that have not been solved in recent years. We did it. And we have a positive work on economics in 2010, and a stable financial system that allows us to finance all expenses, as provided for by the State Budget Act. The program is now telegraphed. It's about the children of war. We have foreseen an increase this year, and for the following year too. It's about savings. We also foresee a solution to this problem, and a fiscal policy, which in the main directions for 2012 is all set out and foreseen. We'll work with you. Regarding the International Monetary Fund. I mean, yes, there are different visions here. Yes, you can. In my view, we can't work without the International Monetary Fund at this time, not to fund certain expenses there, but to have a stable reserve of currency and money at the very cheap to respond to the challenges that exist in our world system. Because the world's economy isn't slowed down today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u24	Finish up, please. Fedor Alexiyovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u25	So the turbulence of the economy, I want to tell you, today, tomorrow, I accept 11 ministers of finance from the SND countries, where we are going to discuss the problems, the state of world finances and the state of finances in our countries, and we are going to work out a program of how we can operate in the context of the turbulence of the world's financial system. This is a very important phenomenon that's happening. It will be constant. And you don't have to forget that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u26	Please Vladislav Lukyanov, Party of Regions. After him is Kovalova.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u27	Dear Fedor Alexiyovich, you and your government team have been able to stabilize the situation and reverse the trend towards growth. And we see that now the projected growth in gross domestic product is published, and it's increasing by two tenths: from 4.5 percent, to 4.7 percent. As you think, if it wasn't for the legacy of the very large loans left by the team, how much better we could have made, and how much better we could have used the 90 billion that we're paying for Timoshenko, Yashchenko and the team right now, I don't want to be able to figure out which one of them is more. Well, I don't want to use the word stolen or used ineffectively, let's say softly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. I want to make it clear that, really, we're running out of this money, unfortunately, they're all spent on other problems. But if we had this money left over, we would really have sent it just to raise pensions, to raise everyone, to fund all the expenditures for the poor themselves. This is the basis where we, as state officials, so to speak, institutions and national MPs, have to take care of themselves and protect the poor themselves. I think that the policy of the President and the government will be demonstrated this year, that this expenditure will increase this year and next year precisely on the basis of balanced financial policy and the economic growth of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u29	Please, Julia Kovalova, faction of the Party of Regions. Get ready for Sasha.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u30	Kovalova Julia Victorian. May I have Chechtovo Mikhail Vasilovich, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u31	Dear Fedor Aleksevic, we all remember what the government started with, 2009: 16.1 per cent of GDP decline, 15 per cent of budget deficit, it was a disaster, practically. And only in a year did you get five times the budget deficit, which is a fantastic result -- five times the economy's rate of growth to five percent. But I have a specific question: it's an honor to see the medical, health, education issues, but children are first. And since we enter the summer vacation period, not the first September mountains, I know that. From scarce financial resources, money is allocated not to the construction of schools, to the renovation of schools, but we are already looking at September 1st, what will happen to textbooks? Are the children going to be provided with textbooks? That's what everybody's worried about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u32	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Really, it's a problem. Yeah. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to tell you that this problem was settled in us last year. We funded last year, enough financial resources to balance these costs, and it was funded, 180 million money is being sent. This year, we're planning, in June months, to maximize this July, to complete the funding of all these programs, and all the textbooks will be properly provided, all of them. I don't know who needs them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u33	Sergey Sass, please. Get Rudchenk ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u34	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sergei Sass, BUT. As the Minister of Finance has not answered one question, I have two questions to Deputy Prime Minister Tihypak. Dear Sergio Leonidovich, 30 billion are exported through a Cyprus hole from Ukraine. That's what I'm talking This is the cost of the state budget of Ukraine, you know that very well. You close your eyes instead of stripping off small businesses that cover their business in a massive way. When will the Cyprus financial hole be closed? That's the first question. And the next question is for the Deputy Prime Minister. How can the Cabinet of Ministers demand the enforcement of laws from others if it does not? I have been speaking to the Supreme Council for the tenth time that the Cabinet of Ministers Act provides that the Cabinet of Ministers should be in full stock for one hour of questions. We have, of 30, two members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Why don't you respect your constituents, Sergey Leonidovich? Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, let's do this. We're a little bit of a time-consuming, and then Sergey Volodymyrovich. Sergey Leonidovich will answer your questions in the end. Please, Mikola Rudchenko. Or, please, Sergey Leonidovich, please turn the microphone on and answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u36	As far as government is concerned, the government today is practically in full stock at a meeting of the Crimea Regional Council. And that's what happened, that's what happened. So I apologize, but everyone present today is present. That's the first one. The other one. As far as tax evasion is concerned. I can say that we have three key problems in our tax legislation that we haven't been able to solve yet. Problem number one, I think, is what we call normal prices. It's not working today. When we can apply the definition of the principle at normal prices, it will mean that any goods or services that go beyond Ukraine can go at any price, but it will be taxed at world prices. So metal can go to an offshore zone at $100, but if the world's price is $300, the tax will be $300. So when we can do it. In principle, we are preparing, and in the summer approach, we will be able to do so. In the fall, we will be able to listen to them in the Supreme Council and accept them or not accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, Mikola Rudchenko, People's Party. After him is Mikola Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u38	Dear Fedor Alexiovich! Mikola Rudchenko, Žitomirščina, People's Party. It is obvious that pension reform has slowed down. Is that a threat to the timely payment of pensions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. The pension reform is, indeed, very necessary in Ukraine, and the government is working hard and drafting bills to ensure that the decisions that will be adopted and adopted are made for the benefit of our citizens. But I want to tell you that, despite all the reforms that will be made, today's pension reform is absolutely without hindrance to financing the current funding of pension payments. We're in automatic mode, it's all going, it's paid. We paid 85 billion in five months. We have built reliable tools to make sure that the problems that arise in certain regions are financed, balanced. And we don't have any debts, we don't have a penny of debt on June 1st of the year. And I want to assure you that by the end of the year there will be no more. And next year, there will be no debts. I think we're going to continue with the medium-term fiscal policy -- 2012, 2013, 2014 -- we're going to have a balanced financial system for pension payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u40	Mikola Komar, Party of Regions. Behind him is Orestes Mutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u41	Adam Ivanovich, please give the floor to the deputy head of the Committee on Budgets to Melnik Petr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u42	Please, Peter Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear Fedor Alexiyovich, I would like to inform my colleagues that there was a summit at the SND Tax Directors' Crimea that that week, including the Baltic countries. And when I reported that the decline in the domestic gross product in 2009 in Ukraine was 15 percent, Latvia alone had 18 percent, in other countries there was no figure. I want to inform you that in the next year, we have adopted in Parliament, in the main areas of budgetary policy, a figure on the government budget deficit of 2.5 percent. And in the current quarter, we have 5.2 percent on the growth of the internal gross product. And over 9 percent of the increase in production. Tax policy, of course, also contributes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u44	Please respond. Peter Volodymyrovich. I think you'll ask the rest of the questions in your line of work. You talk a lot. Please, Fedor Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u45	Dear Peter Volodymyrovich, you have indeed raised an interesting subject. And now we're having this discussion with all the countries in the world to balance fiscal policy. Because we have interconnected economies and it's very important that we don't have any challenges in investing our investments in other countries' economies and other countries' investments in our economy. So this cooperation, which goes both in the tax service and in the Ministry of Finance, the first Vice-Prime Minister held a summit a month ago, gathered, held a summit in Crimea with the first Vice-Prime Minister of the countries of the SND. It allows us to work, exactly, mechanisms to regulate business, so to speak, an environment of stable laws that would allow us to invest enough in projects that would develop the economy and well-being of our country and other countries. These are joint projects. It's very important. As a result of working with finance ministers, I will also inform you. On the question that was asked by Sergey Leonidovich, I want to say that I, too, should be in Crimea as finance minister, but I asked the President, he left me, and today I am answering all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u46	Please, Oreste Mutz, Party of Regions. Sergei Tereshuk, People's Party. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, no? Excuse me, excuse me. Sergei Tereshuk, People's Party, please. Next up is Tishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u47	Dear Fedor Aleksandrovich. Fedor Alexiyovich, I'm sorry! In agriculture today, the situation is quite difficult. I mean rising energy prices, respectively, rising prices for mineral fertilizers, protecting plants. At the same time, prices for agriculture are being held back. Deputy Vaschuk gave an example of the fact that the accumulation of funds in the accounts of the Ministry of Agrarian Politics from the sold milk and meat today does not fall into the village. Please tell me, what was the necessity of introducing a tariff for the implementation of the seed? In the end, all of this will take place in the countryside. The cost of grain production they're going to sell will be cheaper or less than the price of duty. There's talk that they're going to reaccumulate in the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, and then they're going to go in the form of grants to peasants. Please tell me, what was the need for a duty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u48	An extremely interesting question. Sergey Leonidovich already responded to Cyprus. I'm answering you for a moment. We're building a market economy. And our country needs to have market tools. So if we don't regulate, so to speak, customs-tariff taxation systems for balancing and introducing competitive business, we're going to have these offshore zones and we're going to be funding incomprehensible. So the introduction is just a moment, it allows you to balance the grain market properly and work effectively in world markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u49	Yes, Tishchenko, “BUT – Fatherland”. After him, the Gourd.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u50	Thank you. I give the word to Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u51	Thanks, buddy! Dear Mr. Minister! My question is prompted by today’s order of the day. Once again, there are two bills that were rejected two days ago regarding medical reform. Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you. These bills are about an experiment in three areas and Kiev. But there's a conclusion from Minfin that you signed that the implementation of these laws does not require any additional funds from the budget. I have a question for you. Do you know at least one reform in one state that does not require at least a small amount of additional resources at first? Do you believe that this reform will be a successful health reform if you feel bad about the nation’s health? And the second. Did you know that the percentage of GDP in Ukrainian health care is nearly two times lower than in the same Turkey you were talking about today?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u52	Please, Fedor Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u53	Of course, we know all of this, and we know it very well, and we analyze it. And I want to tell you that I signed the extremely correct conclusion, and I want to tell you that every ministry has enough financial resources. And as finance minister, I make sure that the money that is being allocated, if a new program is being created and it is of value to people, it will be financed within the limits foreseen by the budget for the year in question, within the limits of these budgetary assignments. So there's the right money, we find it and we see it, but. That's the first one. The other one. Now, any reform, I've done a lot of reforms with my own hands, and they're far away, and I can tell you specifically, if you have any questions. So when professionals work and we finance the whole sector. Yes, yes, we do not finance it enough, but we finance directly all health - care workers are also money. And these officials have to be responsible for the reforms that, for the pilot projects that they're going to implement, this is an investment in human capital, that is. So the pilot project, it's what it does, is going to be the engine of those reforms that have to be in the medical field, and the people that are going to do in these regions are going to demonstrate. And what kind of budget support they have, we're funding, within budget assignments. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u54	Yes, Igor Gluschenko, faction of the Party of Regions. Behind him is Schmidt, the People's Party. Today at the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Kiselov Vassili Alekseevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u56	Vasil Kiselov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister! What are the basic principles set out in yesterday’s Supreme Council pension reform that the government will stand up for and cannot yield to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen of the nation! I think there have been many discussions, seminars, discussions on this subject. The basic principle of pension reform is that it is the social protection of our population that the citizens of our country, who should receive a timely pension, not just today, but tomorrow, that they should receive it, not the coins we now have, we ourselves know that they are scarce, but that they should increase. It's an extremely large system, so it's a powerful system that allows, it's based primarily on the President's economic reform programme, which is supposed to: Ukraine should enter 20 economically developed countries within 10 years. And on this basis, we're going to work on mechanisms like the bill that was passed yesterday, and you're going to look at it, so that the citizens of our country are deeply convinced and confident that there are no challenges in the world economy, because in all the countries of the world, you know, there are huge problems, including in Ukraine. As long as we have them, there are threats, but threats like in other countries, you can see that we are now avoiding and operating normal programs to make sure that we have enough funding. So this is the basic thesis of our pension legislation that citizens of our country, at the right time, in sufficient normal terms, receive pensions within the statutory terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u59	Please, and the last question is: Nicholas Schmidt, the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u60	Prime Minister Azarov has repeatedly criticised the Government of Timoshenko for reducing funds in a single treasury account. How is the situation now, does your Government continue to do the same?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. We had constructive information in terms of what we had when we came to work, what money we had. I want to tell you that, in fact, they were practically gone. We had in our one treasury account almost 800,000 in the current account and about 700,000 in the currency account. We worked on April-December last year. And I want to tell you that last year's average income was 4.5 billion dollars in the current account and 12 billion dollars in the currency account. Now we've been working out, in five months, we've got the average cost left over in a single treasury account of 7 billion, that's 17 billion in currency accounts. On June 1, we have 17.6 billion dollars in the treasury account and 18 billion in the currency account. This is how government works, and what money we have. This allows us to automatically finance all expenses and to respond to all the challenges that exist in the world in order to solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u62	Thank you, Fedor Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, let's thank both Fedor Alexiyovich and the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers who participated in the "hour of questions to the government." [[Applause]] Once again, I ask you to respond with understanding to the presence of members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Since the Crimea is currently holding a regular session of the Council of Regions, and most of the Cabinet of Ministers are members of the Council of the Regions, they are now holding this meeting and could not be present. In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s regulations on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce our requests. Let's move on to this procedure. People's MPs have been asked: Valerija Suškević to the President of Ukraine on the need for measures to be taken to preserve the preschool office of Kamyan Special School of Public Education for the Deaf and Deaf Children of Zaporozhye. I'm voting on a proposal to support the request. [[11:06:30.]] For-46 Unfortunately, it's not supported. Vladimir Danilenko to the President of Ukraine on the failure to execute a court decision on the transfer of a residence building in Putivl district of Suma County with limited responsibility for Northspecbuilding, the acquisition by the enterprise of state funds of 13 million dollars for the purchase of apartments for black people with disabilities. I'm betting on a motion to support the request. [[11:07:14]] For 252 Supported. Dear colleagues from the BUT faction! What you're doing right now is a violation of the Supreme Council Rules Act. I'm voting for a motion to refer the question of Vladimir Danilenko to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:07:43]] For 258. The request is addressed to the President. Ally Alexandrovsky to the Prime Minister for the non-destruction of the city of Kharkiv Monument in honor of the announcement in Ukraine of the Soviet Authority and the inefficient use of budgetary resources. Anatolia Gorbatyuka to the Prime Minister for financing the construction of a public education school in the village of Künja Lutsky region in Volina. Anatolia Gorbatyuka to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the completion of the renovation and restoration work at the Pokrovska Church in the village of Podubki Lucki district of Volin region. Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Prime Minister for the provision of official information on the current state of functioning of educational institutions in Ukraine. Valentina Matvieva to the Prime Minister, the head of the Pension Fund's government on the legality of collecting funds from retired persons who worked as election committees in the election of the President of Ukraine and to the authorities of the local self-government of the Zitomir region. I think it's not just about Zitomirsk and other areas, including. Valeria Beváz to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on ensuring the proper functioning and economic performance of the company NEMIROF, as well as on carrying out a comprehensive check on the legality of obstacles to the activities mentioned. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister about the financing of the construction and reconstruction of the city of Svetłovodsk in Kirovodsk. Vassil Wooden to the Prime Minister is refusing to privatize the spirit plants of the Ternopil region and to take urgent measures to restore their normal activities. Vasil Kravchuk to the Prime Minister on the legality of the reorganization of the Kremenchuk Regional Hospital of Hmelnick. Vasila Petyovka to the Prime Minister on the situation that has arisen in the heat utility companies of Uzhgrad. Victor Matchuk to the Prime Minister for the loss of Ukraine's position as Director of the Council of Directors of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister on the provision of information on the intentions of the Cabinet of Ministers to make compensation for the undervalued savings of citizens in 2012. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister for the termination of the Ukrainian edition of the Global Broadcasting Service. Vasila Petovka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen in the heat utility of the town of Mukachevo Zakarta. Igor Ribakov to the Prime Minister for the provision of information on the government's analysis of the validity of housing and utility tariffs. Leonidas Grač to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the topographical geodesic and cartographic services of Ukraine. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister for the definition of the boundaries of the instigation areas of apartment buildings and the formation of tariffs for their maintenance. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister for the performance by the State of social obligations towards persons who participated in the liquidation of the Chernobyl AES accident. Olega Lalashka to the Prime Minister for unlawful actions by the management of the Open Shareholders Association "Specialized Building and Installation Administration" of Kyivmisqbud holding company on the non-payment of salaries to its employees and a number of other violations. Olega Lalashka to the Prime Minister for unlawful actions by the management of the Closed Shareholders Association "The Accessories" regarding the non-payment of salaries to his employees. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister, Henprocuror, the head of the Holding Foundation for the attempted sale by the new owner of the third unit of the Open Shareholders Association "Kretelekom" and the manipulation of its privatisation process. Alexander Crnvolenko to the Prime Minister, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Agrarian Policy and Food, Head of the State of Kiev for the lack of measures to prevent stomach infections in Ukraine in connection with the emergence of a new dangerous strain in neighbouring European countries. Orestes Mutz to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Interior, the Head of the State Tax Service, the Ukrainian State Inspectorate for Consumer Rights to verify the activities of the agrohölding "Mrija" in Ternopilsten. Orestes Muz to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General, Minister of Interior, Head of the State Tax Service, Head of the State Motorways Service for the examination of individual facts of the activities of the head of the Buchak district government, as well as the examination of the activities of the Society with limited responsibility for the "Bucagrohlibprom" of the Ternopil region. Peter Pisarczuk to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the verification of the resonant facts of abuse by the leadership of the Lviv Regional Directorate of Forest and Hunting. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister, head of the Poltava District Government for funding at the expense of the budget for the construction of an underwater pipeline in the Beremievka-Bilaka area of the Seminavian region of the Poltava region. Sergey Greenewecki to the Prime Minister on the use of road safety measures. Sergia Košina to the Prime Minister for the restructuring of the state-owned enterprise "Mjogostian State idrom" by joining the state-owned enterprise "Konship of Ukraine". [[Rivenska oblast, Dubensk Region]] Sergei Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for the transfer of the Bilocerkian anti-tuberculosis dispenser outside the residential area of the city of Bila Church. Sergei Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for the pension allowance for citizens who have the status of children of war. Jaroslav Suhogo to the Prime Minister for the delay in repayment of the debt from the salaries paid to the employees of the Zaporozhye State Company Radio Device. People's deputies' groups to the Prime Minister for the capital repair of the road T-14-0. [[The mosquito, Liczuk, and others. Total 5 deputies]] T-14-12 from the international car pass of "The Smiley Old Sambir." Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, Henprocuror, Minister of Interior, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Director General of the State Railway Administration for the verification of illegal transfer to Lemtrans's private lease, which has been under the leadership of Vladimir Kozak since 2000. Sergey Tereshuk to the Deputy Prime Minister is the Minister of Social Policy for allocating funds to the All-Ukrainian Public Organization "Harmonia". Vasil Kravczuk to Deputy Prime Minister is the Minister of Infrastructure for the non-admission of the Shepetovka-Hmelnicki train. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister, Commissioner of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, Henprocuror, Minister of Health, Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Head of the ARC Council of Ministers on the use of urgent measures to prevent child orphans from violating the rights of children from the Yaltin children's home. Mikoli Shershun to the Cabinet of Ministers on the urgent need to produce anticancer drugs that are purchased outside Ukraine. Valery Calchenka to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing for the financing of construction and reconstruction of municipal buildings in the city of Svetlovodska Kirovograd. Victor Marchuk to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the absence of an answer to a essentially parliamentary request for a meeting between Ambassador of Ukraine in Russia and Ambassador Taylor of the United States in January 2009. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, head of the State Tax Service on the form of a diploma on higher education for graduates of the Department of Education of the National University of Taxation of Ukraine. Grigory Smitucha to the Minister of Health regarding the allocation of funds for the construction of an infectious ward of the central district hospital in Volodymyr-Wollin district. Igor Jereshka to the Minister of Internal Affairs for failure to carry out the administration of the State Automobile Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev of the decision of the Obollon District Court to carry out the national registration of the vehicle. Catherine Samuel to the Minister of Internal Affairs about the return of the deleted property. Katerina Vaschuk to the Minister of Justice for Dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request of March 18, 2011 for the use of measures to enforce the court's decision on the collection of debt from the Open Shareholders' Association "Drobobic Milk Plant" in favour of the agricultural production cooperative "Slava". Irina Gerashchenko and Olga Gerasimük to the Minister of Education and Minister of Finance, head of the Montenegrin District Administration for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the premises of the Kiselovki General Education Institute of the Kitzman district of the Cherniewsky region. Jury Litvina to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, the head of the Kyiv District State Administration in relation to the complaint of the disabled and the Cherenja Grigory Group regarding the disregard of his appeals, the disregard for his rights as a ploughman, and the violation of his rights by the representatives of the Watt Kyivoblanergo. Alexander Schepeleva to the minister of health regarding the use of tenders for the purchase of drugs for oncological children. Edward Prutnik to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, the Chernigiv District State Administration, the Lower Regional State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of residents on the street of Frank, 271 of the town of Nizhin on the non-refoulement of families of pensioners, veterans of work, paramedics of an accident at CHAES and families with young children from residential and utility services. Alexia Plotnikov to the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, the Kyiv Ministry of State on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the 5 channel station, residents of the Borispół Anastasia Fedorova on the conduct of a price check in taxis that service passenger transport on the route of Borispíl - Kiev and Kiev - Borispíl. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Regional Development, the State Price Control Inspectorate on the appeal of the All-Ukrainian Union of Regional Employers' Organisations to the Housing and Utilities Industry "The Federation of Ukrainian Employers" on the need for regulatory and legal regulation of housing and utility tariffs in the State to ensure the development of the housing and utility sector. [[Bogdika, Plotnikova, Lithuania]] Helen Bondarenko to the head of the National Television and Radio Council on the compliance of the current legislation approved by the National Council of Ukraine on TV and Radio on 2 April 2008 with a list of foreign programmes that are not retransmissioned in Ukraine. Sergey Greenewecko to the head of the State Tax Service for the transfer of an apartment in the town of Kremenec of Ternopil district from state to municipal property. Victor Korzh to the head of the High Council of Justice, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, for bringing to justice the disciplinary responsibility of the Dniprovsky District Court of Kiev Nelly Lastovka. Anatolia Yagoferov to Henprocuror for the unlawful actions of the employees of the Cave branch of Privatbank. Groups of National Deputies to Henprokuror, Minister of Culture, Head of the Kyiv City Office for the Cessation of Construction Work in the Area of Archaeology of National Meaning "The Child of Ancient Kiev. [[Yushchenka, Shkutka, and others. Total 7 deputies]] Jury Litvina to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs on the verification of the abuse of office, the exceedance of official powers, the gross violation of the Constitution and the current legislation of Ukraine, the threat and pressure of Debalt City Council deputies from the People's Party of Dmitry Comradesov by officials of the city authorities and the inaction of law enforcement authorities. Eugene Zarkov to Henprocuror, Minister of Interior, Odessa City Head on illegal beach grabbing in the Arcadia resort area in Odessa. Andrija Pavlovski to Henprocuror for the personal distribution by the Attorney General of Ukraine on May 27 on the "Inter" television channel in order to discredit the opposition leader of the "Fatherland" party, Timoshenko, who confirms the political nature of the criminal case against her. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, on taking appropriate measures to prevent the financing of Ukraine's political parties by the European Union, as stated by the European Union Representative in Ukraine. Victor Taran to Henprocuror, on the illegal actions of Attorney General Victor Pshonka and the violation against the leader of the Party of Fatherhood, Timoshenko, in the course of the investigation of a politically motivated criminal case against her. Valeria Behwazza to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the issue of legal evaluation and immediate response to the raiding of the sugar plant in the village of Kirnasivka in the province of Tulčina, which resulted in numerous injuries to residents of the area. Victor Olijnik to the Attorney-General for the unlawful act of the Attorney-General of Ukraine is damaging the reputation of the leader of the political party, Timoshenko. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General on the unconstitutional decision of the Luhansk District Council to grant Russian language regional status in the area. Vladimir Donczak to the Attorney-General on the inadmissibility of personally manipulating the public opinion of citizens through the dissemination of false information about Timoshenko. Vladimir Levcun to the Attorney-General for the prosecution of the unlawful actions of the officials of the Henprocurator in the selective criminal prosecution of Timoshenko. Vladimir Lemza to the Attorney General on the need for an immediate cessation of political repression against Timoshenko. Vladimir Filenka to the Attorney General on political repression and violation by Henprocuror of Ukrainian laws in the course of criminal proceedings against Timoshenko. Elina Shishkina to the Attorney General on the illegal dissemination by the Attorney General of false information about the leader of the political party "The Fatherland" Timoshenko. Eugenia Souslow to the Attorney General on the violation of civil rights and freedoms during the investigation of the criminal case against Timoshenko. Zoe Shishkina to the Attorney General on the widespread misinformation of Ukrainian citizens, conducted on May 27 on the Internet. Mikoli Schmidt to Henprocuror to conduct a search at the home of a well-deserved USSR sports master from football, a well-deserved physical and sports worker in Ukraine named Viktor Chanov. Vitalia Korja to Henprocuror for the dissemination of false information about the leader of the political party "Fatherland" Timoshenko. Mikli Potopchuk to Henprocuror for violations of the law in the investigation of the criminal case against Timoshenko. Mikoli Rudchenka to Henprocuror for violations of labour rights and socio-economic interests of workers, as a result of the privatization of the branch of the electric meter in the village of the city-type Chopper, Malin district of the Žitomir region. Mikoli Soloshenko to Henprocuror on the status of criminal investigation on the grounds of the crime provided for in article 86-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, according to the fact that the funds have been stolen by VAT officials, "Carycan ATP-11237". Michael Wolinz to the Attorney General on misinformation by the Public Prosecutor General regarding the fact that the Henprosecutor is deliberately hiding from Timoshenko and the court's decision to change the precautionary action of May 23rd. Oleg Tishchenka to Henprocuror for the unlawful and unfounded political discreditation of the leader of the opposition party "Fatherhood" Timoshenko. Alexander Fomin to Henprocuror for the deception of Ukrainian citizens over Timoshenko. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General about the events that took place on May 9, 2011, in Lviv, near Slava’s Hill and on the Martian Field. Alexander Dubov to the Attorney General for numerous violations by the Henprosecutors during the investigation of the criminal case against Timoshenko. Alexander Kemenyash to the Attorney General for the improper response of law enforcement authorities to the Kohan family crime in the village of Colchono, Mukacov district of Zakarpatsk district. Alexander Steshenko to Henprocuror for an unbiased, biased investigation by the Attorney General of Ukraine into a criminal case against Timoshenko. Helen Bondarenko to the Attorney General on the violation by the Attorney General of the laws of Ukraine in the investigation of the case against Timoshenko. Olga Bondar to the Attorney General on the violation by the Attorney-General of the constitutional rights of Timoshenko. Paul Silent to the Attorney General on the anticonstitutional decision of the Luhansk region on the use of Russian. Roman Tkač to Henprocuror for the criminal offence of detection near the village of Tishminicka in the Tisminic region of Ivano-Frankov region of the remains of persons killed by the NCSC. Roman Zabzaluk to Henprocuror of the requirement to refrain from spreading knowingly false information about the circumstances of the Timoshenko investigation. Roman Zabzaluk to Henprocuror for violations of existing legislation, for exceeding official powers, and for attacks against journalists on May 31st in the city of Mikolayev by officials of the tax police. Semeraq's Ostap to Henprocuror for the deliberate failure of the Henprocurator to respond to the commission of a crime by senior investigators to increase political pressure and the unlawful persecution of political opposition and Tymoshenko himself. Sergey Košin to Henprocuror for misleading Ukrainian citizens with information about Timoshenko. Sergey Gordienka to Henprocuror for the improper investigation of the Poltavsky District Attorney's Office for the Lubno Credit Association, the need to use the materials before the Henprocurator's office, to conduct an impartial investigation, to bring the guilty to justice and to protect the interests of the fraudulent owners. Henprocuror of Ukraine's subversive branch on the illegality and violation of fundamental human rights and the citizen in the course of the proceedings by the Attorney General's Office of the criminal case concerning Timoshenko. Stepan Dawimuka to the Attorney General on the inadmissibility of social manipulation of Timoshenko. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General on the organization of an objective investigation into criminal cases committed in connection with the murder of the Odessa resident of Alexi Jerebek and the brutal beating in September 2007 of participants in a peaceful protest in the city of Odessa. [[Grigorovich, Kowala and others. Total 12 deputies]] Stephen Kurpil to Henprocuror on the political involvement of the Attorney General's Office in the investigation of the criminal case against Timoshenko. Tarasa Stackowa to the Attorney General on the legality of Semcia’s actions, who was declared an international search for participation in the May 9 events in Lviv. People's deputies' groups to the Attorney-General in connection with the gang attack on the historic cultural complex of Castle Radomisl. [[Greenshanks, Heratschenko and others. Total 7 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to Henprocurorate on the responsibility of Henprocuror and other persons involved in the criminal investigation against Timoshenko [[Skinwash, Lemze, and others. Total 8 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the impossibility of targeted use of Opel Combo vehicles, which were allocated to rural health facilities in January-February 2010 under the relevant Cabinet of Ministers programme. [[Oil, Potchuck, and others. Total 8 deputies]] People's Deputies to the Attorney-General's Office for the Legal Review have purchased $400 million worth of offshore drilling by the National Stock Exchange Company BlackMornaftogaz. [[Peanut, Sassa, and others. Total 6 deputies]] The National Deputies' Groups to Henprocurorate on the crime committed on 29 December 2008 by the former Director of the State Enterprise TernopilStandardMetrology of Ternopol, resulting in the death of a co-worker, Omelyan Mikola Andryovich. [[The stable, the weaver, the Kendzior.]] Irina Gerashchenko and Olga Gerasimük to the Attorney General to prevent unknown persons from performing their professional duties to journalists of the newspaper "Our City" and the site "Criminalities." N.T.'s in the Mikolai city tax facility. Mikoli Shershun to the head of the Pension Fund’s rule on the calculation and payment of pensions to the victim of the accident at CHAES Melnik Mikhail Alexandrovich. People's deputies' groups to the National Sanitary Epidemiology Service to restore sanitation for all kinds of transportation that transport food. [[The mosquito, Samofalova, and others. Total 7 deputies]] Valentina Zubova to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the verification of the violation of the right of residents of the hostel, located at: the city of Kiev, the Volgo-Donsky Lane, 5, to privatize housing. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the head of the Kiev City Office for the cessation of attempts at targeted education ruse in Kiev. Alexander Shepeleva to the head of the Kyiv City Administration on taking steps to improve safety in water rest areas in Kiev. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the cessation of illegal acts from the apprehension of the shrine of the Ukrainian people, the foundations of the Decade Church in Kiev. Peter Simonnck to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the inadmissibility of using the battalion’s police patrol officers to protect the monument to Fascist Lieutenant Bandera in Lviv. These are the parliamentary questions that respected colleagues have come in. We have a request from the People's Deputy Karmazin for his dissatisfaction with his response to the request of a group of national deputies to the Attorney General. Please, Yuri Anatolyevich, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u63	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! On April 20, 2011, at the 30th plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from this rostrum, a parliamentary request was made to the Attorney General of Ukraine on behalf of 84 deputies for the criminalization of a citizen of Melnick from circumstances that threaten Ukraine's national security. At the same time, documents were sent to us. And here's the answer. We got an answer that's completely incomprehensible. The Attorney-General, on his own behalf, has informed us that it appears to us that on March 1, 2005, a criminal case against Melnick was closed by the Attorney-General on the basis of article 6, paragraph 2, of Ukraine and article 39 of the Criminal Code. That's all motivation. That's the whole answer to 84 MPs. After learning about it, 102 Ukrainian national deputies have been asked by the Attorney General to carry out their constitutional duties. The society has a right to know who has benefited from the publication of completely secret information on the report of the head of the Leonid Dercach Board to the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the recruitment of the General of the Russian Federation, information on the hearing of the embassies of NATO participating States. Information that came to be known from a report by U.S. intelligence director Igor Smilek about an official of the U.S. CIA who worked with Ukrainian intelligence. So far, the Ukrainian defence complex has not risen from its knees after the blow that resulted from the spread of false information about the sale in Iraq of a radio surveillance system called the Colchouga. What did Ukraine get? I got political disgrace, an economic collapse in the defence and industrial sector, where over half a million people worked, the removal of Ukraine from the most influential players in the international arms market. Without a declaration of war, we were virtually destroyed by factories that produced the world's best missiles, planes, tanks, other high-tech weapons. The families of Ukrainian spies, who were ex-guarded, were bereaved. Ukraine has long damaged its relationship with NATO, not to mention a closer relationship. What, there's no sign of any of the crimes envisaged in article 111 of "State betrayal"? Or 30.28 State Secret Disclosure? Or 364 Abuse of Power? Taking the March 1, 2005, decision to close the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u64	Finish up. He's not a member of the National Party yet. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u65	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Without even questioning Melnick, making decisions based solely on public statements, the Henprosecutor’s Office has shown criminal negligence in carrying out its duties and clarifying and eliminating conditions that threaten Ukraine’s national security. Unknown was the fact of the so - called film trade. As a result, we demand that the legality of the closure of March 1st of the criminal case be checked, that it be restored, and that justice be established. I'm giving you, Adam Ivanovich, the signatures of 102 Ukrainian national deputies and the MP's request, and I'm asking you to send it to respond accordingly. And I ask the Attorney General of Ukraine: I ask you, Your Honor Attorney General, to respect yourself, to respect the state of Ukraine, to respect that institution and those who have signed on this request, to respect the sovereignty of the State under which it is done today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u66	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. Let's move on to "Inclusion in the agenda of the day session." I am voting on the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers to include a draft Law amending the Constitution on Health Care in order to improve the provision of medical care to the agenda of the daily session. [[Registration number 8602]] Please vote. [[11:37:40]] For 267 It's on. A vote is taken on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law on how to reform the health system in Winnitsky, Dnipropetrovski, Donetsk oblasts and the city of Kiev. [[Registration number 8603]] [[11:38:14]] For 256 It's on. They think in other areas it's only going to shorten, but it's not going to make it to Zitomirsk, is it? There is a motion to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on the Single Customs Tariff. [[Registration number 8062]] I remind you, dear colleagues, we have once considered and raised the question that there is no decryption of codes. Now the codes are deciphered, I think we have reason to vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please be supportive. [[11:39:06]] For 273 Questions are included in the agenda. And there's a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Anti-Trafficking Act. [[Registration number 8469]] [[11:39:35]] For 262 The positive vote is 262. Otherwise it couldn't have been, because the author is a member of the Zarubinsky People's Party. Yes, dear fellows, let's move on to the issues of daytime order. We have to look at Bill 8462 -- draft Law on the Specialities of Public Property Management in the Defence Industrial Complex. Remember, yesterday we discussed the matter with you in connection with the committee’s letter. And so far, the position of the committee remains unchanged that the committee has not considered it and is asking to move it. But in view of the fact that more than one month has passed, more than one month, we can consider it under the Rules. True, for the sake of justice, it must be noted that the Committee on National Security and Defence has a fair argument on the basis that they received only the first number at a later date, and that they received the necessary conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. That's the information I had to prove to you. And in this context, I first propose to vote on what I would like to vote on and decide that we should consider the bill without considering it on the committee. Please vote. [[11:41:21]] For 256 A decision has been made on the Committee's decision without a decision. Once again, we're not breaking the rules, because the month is over. There is a suggestion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:41:50]] For 225 Offer supported. I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Maksutouy Anatoly Arkadyovich. Please, two minutes. Get ready for Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah's committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u67	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Public Property Management in the Defence and Industrial Complex. The law is designed to carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine to improve the implementation of state policy in the field of manufacturing, repair, modernization, implementation and disposal of arms, military technology and state administration in the area indicated. The purpose of the bill is to ensure the efficient use and preservation of defence and industrial property in the state, to improve the efficiency of enterprises in this complex, which carry out economic activities in the fields of manufacturing, implementation, repair, modernization and disposal of weapons, military special equipment and ammunition, and to participate in military and technical cooperation with foreign states, as well as to ensure the control of the activities of defence and industrial enterprises in matters of public property management. The goal is achieved by granting the state concert "Ucroprom" authority to manage state-owned property in a defence-industrial complex and by defining it as an authorized owner in this area. The adoption of the law will ensure the improvement of the quality of the management of KPC enterprises and the effective use of their manufacturing and export potential, the creation of conditions for home-owned enterprises to address major problems related to the development of new, modernization and escorting, the exploitation of existing types of weapons, and military technology. Developing domestic enterprises in the internal market for large-scale scientific products and creating conditions for the further full-scale exit of this product to the external market. And the expansion of the export capabilities of these companies. Repairing the raw production of new ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u68	Finish it, Anatoly Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u69	scientific products of dual use and civilian production, preservation and support under market conditions of available scientific and technological, productive human resources. Finally, the adoption of this law will help to improve the position of workers in the entire complex, to ensure employment, and to create new jobs. Request to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u70	Thank you, sit down, please. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach is the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u71	Dear National Deputies! To our consideration, there is a question that is part of the strategic interests of the state: the defence and industrial complex of Ukraine defines a significant part of our national security and defence. In the last period, unfortunately, we've had to find a loss of management in the defence and industrial complex, a decline in the overall scientific and technological, industrial human potential, which is unacceptable. The bill is intended for Parliament to implement a number of decisions of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine and the relevant Presidential decrees. And once again, it's very relevant. At the same time, experts determine that in the structure of the bill it is necessary to strengthen and introduce relevant articles that provide for a more precise system of state administration of the defence and industrial complex, the role of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the interaction of all directions with the activities of the Ucrobanprom concert and a number of other institutions of power. It is essential that the management of the defence and industrial complex be dealt with in a comprehensive manner in accordance with the concept, the strategy for the development of the Ucroborinprom concert. It includes the creation of vertically integrated consolidation structures for our scientific and industrial potential in this direction. And certainly, these tasks cannot be accomplished without solutions to those already made on the basis of appropriate regulatory decisions. This is the approval of national security strategies, the Military Doctrine, the National Development Program of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And in this context, these directions have a direct bearing on the bill. In view of the above, honourable colleagues, taking into account the findings of the Science and Technology Administration, there is a proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u72	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Yes, the defenders are Smith and Caplienne. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u73	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I think in our country it's long overdue to pay attention to the defence complex of Ukraine, to the fact that we can do so, that Ukraine's independence will soon be lost. Because Ukraine was one of the powerful states that had a military-industrial complex during the period of the collapse of Soviet power. In addition, new examples have been developed to protect our homeland. And so they would have kept independence in Ukraine, which, unfortunately, is lost to some extent today. I do. Industrial complex, I mean financial complex and so on. I want to give you an example of how the casinos, the Zaporozhye Titanogne combination under the aegis of high-ranking officials in 2004 and 2009 destroyed the titanium branch and stole over $300 million on a titanium-magnesia combination. And these officials, sometimes from a large rostrum, talk about the development of scientific and technological development in Ukraine, the strategic independence of Ukraine, military doctrine and so on and so forth. I would recommend that these officials never use words that say that Ukraine should have high-tech and other processes because they destroyed the titanium branch of Ukraine. And they're in the Ukraine Hall today, here, the Supreme Council. I'm against that kind of politics, I'm against those kind of officials. I am for Ukraine to be independent, great and powerful, including in the military-industrial complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u74	And thank you. Caplienko's passing the terrace to Blackwoll, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u75	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! The MP's Reform Group for the Future, as it examined this bill, produced a number of positive and negative conclusions. If you recall, at the beginning of this week, a statement was made on behalf of our parliamentary group from this rostrum, where this bill was specifically mentioned. We have noted the fact that Ukraine, in fact, as a country that has a strong defence industry, even today after all the crises, after all the economic collapses, really needs to create a new structure that can unite all the efforts both in the formation of a defence order, both in the formation, unification of powers and forces for the creation of military technology and for the promotion of it into external markets, including the involvement of all the State's efforts to strengthen both special, fundamental and practical research in this field. So it is clear that the bill in part of the State’s concentration of effort has its positive effects. And this moved us to support him in his day - to - day routine. But we immediately noted that there are a number of serious negatives in the bill. The first of these is that there's not enough clear nuances of the management system. The second point is that there are not enough rigid and clear guides that are meant to give evidence that this law will serve and that the new creation will serve the very concentration of all efforts, we believe that this needs to be worked out. And the next. We need to make a few details, a series of regulations on the activities of the new administration to remove those nuances that in bad will, and the law will work, the structure will work for years, could be used by someone to actually let go under the knife, to privatize our defense complex. That is why we vote in the first reading. This law, the new law, is not a change. Article 116 does not work. We will insist that in the second reading, we actively work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u76	And that's going to be the right thing to do. Question completed. Gordon, one minute, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u77	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I would like to suggest that in the defence complex of Ukraine there are also lands of state property, there are state councils so called. And here, in Poltavščina there is Radosp Chutovsky, who, while in the Ministry of Defence, is actually getting into the pen today. He needs to be reinstated. And it's important for the people who have worked and many generations of these people in this state enterprise to come out of logic, if we give the rest of the population in Ukraine land rations, it's an enterprise. Or, if it is managed by the Ministry of Defense, manage it at the right level, but do not prove or destroy it until there is only one desert left.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u78	Question completed. I'm voting on a proposal to adopt a bill, a draft law on the characteristics of the management of state-owned property in a defence-industrial complex, based on the first reading. [[Registration number 8462]] Please vote. [[11:53:21]] For 267 A decision has been made. There is a proposal for a decision to shorten the procedure for preparing the question for second reading. Please vote. [[11:53:45]] For 236 So in the next plenary week, we'll have reason to consider it in the second reading. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity is under consideration. [[concerning the guarantee of State obligations to encourage the use of alternative sources of energy]] [[Registration number 8575]] What are we voting for? Is that what I'm saying? Yes, who's in favour of a brief review, please support. [[11:54:31]] For 225 Offer supported. I give my word to both the author, and I understand it, Igor Mikolayovich, that you are also from the committee, the Pillar of Igor Mikolayovich. Please have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I have been introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, which is designed to preserve investment attractiveness and create preconditions for increasing investment in the production of electricity from alternative sources of energy. [[concerning the guarantee of legal succession in commitment]] A number of comments were made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office before the bill was introduced, particularly with regard to the way in which regulatory material is taught, the need for a clearer definition of the reasons for the future of relevant social relations in connection with the reform of the electricity market. The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security supported the bill's relevance and decided to work on it to take into account the need for legislative enforcement of the market rules produced from alternative sources of electricity when switching from the existing model of the wholesale electricity market to the new model of the bilateral contracts market and the balancing market. Worked by the National Deputies, members of the Committee, the bill has been thoroughly improved. The draft is proposed to amend articles 12 and 17 of the Ukrainian Electricity Act. Amendments to article 12 provide for an extension of the powers of the NCRE in Ukraine to ensure the implementation of state policy and to stimulate the production of electricity from alternative sources of energy, including by agreeing on contracts for the purchase of such energy to Ukraine’s electricity wholesale markets. In line with the amendments to article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, the State guarantees, purchases and calculations are legally secured by full-scale money in terms of time-limits for electricity produced from alternative sources of energy and administered by operators at a price-stimulating green tariff. Decision of the Committee: To submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Electricity Act on guaranteeing State obligations to encourage the use of alternative sources of energy and to recommend to the Supreme Council that Ukraine accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you would like to sign up for the discussion, please sign up. They're desirable. Please. Smith George. Prepare the Chapel. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion that we should work without interruption and shorten our meetings for 30 minutes. Is there no objection? Okay. Then please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u81	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the latest events in Japan related to the nuclear disaster, and the previous events that have taken place in our country are Chernobyl, telling the world that in the future, however we wish, nuclear energy is energy, which unfortunately is dangerous to people's lives, including. I thought, and I think that when we passed the Green Tariff Act, that this law was supposed to stimulate the right and develop an alternative source of energy. And the state, in order to make an enabling environment, including the purchase of electricity, has to do everything and ensure that this program, even though it's being implemented for the first five years to come, we finally have the opportunity to generate energy and to be independent in terms of energy through the introduction of new technological processes, and there is enough raw materials that are cheap and not used by our country today. I support this bill because it is an additional incentive to assure future investors that this program will work, that the government and the Supreme Council act consistently, and will be confirmed by their commitment to investors. Please support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u82	Yes, please, Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, distinguished listeners! The MP's Reform Group for the Future has been reviewing this bill at its meeting. We talked about it. You know, we were only surprised by the fact that, until today, such a bill had not appeared in Parliament as early as possible. I would like to remind you that for the first time, the state is paying attention to the problem of not paying off due debt to those persons, whether legal persons or individuals who are working in the field to obtain alternative sources of energy at the expense of bio-, gas-, wind- and other energy. Today, the balance of energy consumption in Ukraine certainly tends to be that too much electricity is produced by means of nuclear energy, hydro and thermal energy. With this alternative energy source, we have not been given normal attention until today. Of course, the market is not boundless, and if you look at the way and how Europe is developing in this direction, you'll notice that in Europe, long ago, the systemic motivation of specific producers began with a guarantee of the full amount of electricity that was produced on alternative aria instruments at the expense of the state. If this legislative initiative leads to the same experience on Ukrainian territory, we will be happy to do so and support this initiative. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" support this bill in the first reading, and if it's put to the vote on a basis, we think it's sophisticated, normal and can be accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u84	Thank you. Sergey Pavlovenko, faction of the National Party. Shevchuk – then, one minute, from BUT. Microphone, please, Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u85	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please give the word to Zarubinsky, a colleague of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u86	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u87	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. You know, I honestly want to tell you that the faction was neither lively nor discussed this bill at all, because it is absolutely clear. There is no subject for discussion here. I want to remind you that in its time, including your humble servant, much has been done to bring about the Green Tariff Act in Ukraine, which has, in fact, enabled the development of solar energy, wind energy, the energy of small hydropower plants, and today in many areas of Ukraine, many regions are sufficiently active in the use of these very renewable sources. We call them alternatives, they're called "renewable sources" in Europe. I think it's more consistent with their essence. But today, if it's given what's called green light, the development of renewable energy at the expense of a special one, or if it's also called green tariff. So the second part is a problem because the electricity produced from these renewables has to be realized. And that's why the state then assumed the obligation to buy out this electricity, except for domain and coke coal, on the schedules that were in the Green Tariff Act. Here the authors of the legislative initiative are proposing, absolutely right, that there be guarantees for those people who invest in renewable energy, invest in it, do it, guarantee that it won't be forgotten in a year or a half. And so I think it's right for me to suggest to the Main Committee that this bill can be adopted, because it's not debated, it's not controversial, it's acceptable today and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u88	Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u89	The position of the faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” is at least in three positive arguments. First. After Chernobyl, after Fukushima, Japan is probably the ones that have to show an example in the development of alternative kinds of electricity. It's not just about leisure, it's about safety and health. The second argument is that alternative types of electricity are more transparent, more transparent, not as corrupt as the current gas oil sector or the field of nuclear energy. And that really needs spreading. And the third argument is that in developing alternative sources of energy, Ukraine is totally independent of its neighbours, its supply of gas, its supply of oil and other sources, which is actually increasing the sovereignty and independence of our state. That's why the faction will vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. You can see that we are all unanimous in the thought that a bill is worth supporting. This is one moment. And second moment. I'd like you to pay attention to the fact that we're now looking at a committee-worked version. In fact, the committee has already done both the first and the second readings, because it has made a workable choice. And he has a reason, and he has a reason, therefore, for the committee to make a proposal to accept as a basis and as a whole as a law. There were no objections to this during the discussion. So I'm proposing to the Committee on the Adoption of the Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Electricity Act to guarantee the State's obligations to encourage the use of alternative sources of energy. Registration number 8575. Please vote. [[12:06:35]] For 295 Thank you, the law has been passed. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[about naming constituencies]] Registration number 3167. There's an offer: consider the simplified procedure. [[12:07:08]] For 225 A supported idea. Yes, our reporter is Bunny Ivan Alexanderovich, two minutes and Olga Bodnar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u91	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I and National Deputy Jaroslav Jodzik propose that our bill prohibit the use of names and surnames in the name of the electoral bloc of individuals or historical figures. Let me remind you that in the current legislation there is already a restriction on the use of the names and surnames of persons in the name of the constituency, but it only applies to cases where the persons mentioned are not candidates to be appointed from the bloc, or if their names and surnames are not used in the official name of at least one of the parties belonging to the bloc. So we propose a general solution to this question, why did we propose such a bill? First, our proposal is a step towards the rehabilitation and recovery of the party system, particularly the parties, and of all authority. With the emergence of so-called major mega-party, which is really nothing more than a political cover for financial and oligarchic holding companies, the party building in our country has stopped. The quality of power has declined dramatically because ideology has escaped from politics and politics from power. Everything is locked in the narrow corporate interest of a few rich people. In a large part of the party, the unity of citizens in shared values has become a structure where the climate of party life is determined by one person — the party’s head and its narrow environment, not by worldview values and programs. The block names feed these negative trends. Namely, the constituency blocks worsen the stability of party life and the political system by encouraging all kinds of raiders to attack the leader of the party. The political neutrality of the party leader leads to the destruction of political power. to the destruction of the political power with which this leader is personified, and thus to the destruction of the party itself. Second, naming blocks mislead voters because voting for a popular personality leads to the power of candidates who do not owe political obligations or are not obliged.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u92	Ivan Aleksandrovitch, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u93	and are not bound by a common ideology. Substituting clear programming principles, the state's ways of developing an advertising trick, an image that's actually meant to sell a cat in a bag to the electorate. That's why we have the practice of moving deputies from one faction to another, a phenomenon that is sarcastically referred to as the "move of carcasses." Namely political blocks are a phenomenon that belongs to countries that are prone to totalitarianism. Our bill is designed to ensure that the party system is structured, that the level of political corruption is reduced, that the electoral process is formed as ideologies, that the project approach to the electoral system is eliminated, that democratic traditions are deepened. That's why I'm proposing. Please support this bill, and we will take one step towards the recovery of our party system and power system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u94	Yes, please, from the committee's first deputy committee head, Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Chairman,
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear listeners! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government considered at its meeting on February 17, submitted by national deputies John Zayj and Jaroslav Jojik, a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[about naming constituencies]] The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Laws "On Elections of People's Deputies" and "On Elections of People's Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Council of the Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads" and to prohibit the use in the full or shortened term of the electoral bloc of political party names, names and initials of historical figures and other persons, even if they are candidates for deputies from this bloc, or if their names and surnames are used in the official name of one of the parties that enter the bloc. People’s deputies also considered the findings of the bill that came to the committee. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy believes that the provisions of the bill do not conflict with the Constitution and that the outcome of the review of the Supreme Council of Ukraine may be accepted as a basis. According to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, the bill has no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded that it is appropriate to reject the bill in the first reading. In discussing the draft Law at a committee meeting, it was determined that its position, which proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, had become obsolete. Since the new edition of this law no longer provides for the formation of constituencies, political party organizations in the local elections. However, members of the committee agreed with the aim of introducing the proposed draft amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies and the majority of the votes of the people's deputies were approved to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u97	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u98	In accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, Ukraine's draft Act "On Amendments to Certain Laws" on the basis of a first reading review to be adopted by the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government to finalize the bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions made to it. [[No. 3167]] The relevant draft decision submitted by members of the committee for consideration by Parliament. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u99	Thank you, Olga Borisovna. Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Yes, Radovec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Zadir Gennady Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u101	Bully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u102	Thank you very much. We're sorry, we wanted to vote and talk about that we're not going to support this law, just, well, it just happened that we signed up for it. But we don't really see or see the point of voting for this bill at all. Because really today, the law does not foresee the creation of blocks. And there really is no problem in itself. That's why our MP's Reform for the Future doesn't see the point in this bill, and we won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u103	Moses gives it to Ruslan Knyazevitch. Please. After him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u104	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich and his distinguished colleagues, well, I can't really agree with that thesis on behalf of the committee that the bill has largely lost its relevance. Because it was written in 2008, and since then we have adopted new legislation on local elections. And at the time of the adoption of the new electoral legislation, the parliamentary elections. He may have given up on technology, but the relevance of this issue is enormous. Because the authors of the local bill and the one that's currently being developed have gone a radical way of canceling election blocks at all. Here it is suggested that we solve the problem that really exists. Because we have a large part of it, sometimes with naming blocks, there's an idea at all. Because by the name of the leader, there are people who may not even have anything to do with politics. And we're changing the notion of "political power" to actually "pre-election project." I can agree with that. So let's clean up the possibility of building naming blocks, but the blocks as a phenomenon are left behind, because it's everywhere in the world. If we want to be apart from the processes that are taking place, let's say in Europe, we can usually go and drive, let's say, the idea into a dead end. But I assure you that the Venice Commission and the European institutions will certainly draw our attention to this. And this idea is completely rational and smart. If it's even out of date, it can be replicated even in part if you take it as a foundation, and when you work on new legislation as ideological, it has to be applied exactly, because I assure you that in this room, of course, we can go to radical things, but then we'll be corrected there, in the West. And we'll all be equally ashamed to turn our eyes down, go back to that question in the session room, and at the request of European society to make these amendments. In order not to do so in advance, let us agree with this idea; let us take it to work as one that should be supported on the basis and continue to develop the bill, perhaps by means of, say, the work of the constituency of electoral legislation must be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u105	Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I actually signed up against it, but I will, personally, vote in favour of this bill. Let's think about it calmly. The logic of the bill is present, it is. There's the relevance of the bill, it's unconditional, and there's an argument. Remember, in this session room called Victor Andrievich Yushchenko, there was a whole faction of NUNS. Look closely, please, what's left of that faction? And from that Yuschenk, from his authority, from morality. The faction fell apart, people were deceived. The people who voted for Yashchenka voted in favour of all those whose names, even some, are not even called. But if the goal is to provide. The goal is to further improve electoral legislation, to ensure the positive dynamics of the political structure of society and to strengthen political parties, these political parties need to be given such an opportunity, to develop, to improve. And the fact that there are blocks all over the world, please don't confuse the blocks after the election, they block in the hall. And one more thing. You know, I don't want to get into a discussion, but I'm just impressed by the depth of my heart. It's gonna be like they're gonna fix us. Listen, we're being repaired from Bank, we're being repaired from Gruszewski, we're being repaired from Europe. How long can we be fixed?Oh, my God! People's deputies! Do you remember how this rostrum depended on how you spoke, how you answered the question, and how you reasoned on your bill — that was the decision, the vote?Oh, my God! Well, what are we doing? And so here's the Venice Commission, when the specific circumstances and conditions in Ukraine are that we have only 20 years of independence and 20 years of new democracy that we haven't realized so much that how we're going to build it. Hence, this bill by John the Rabbit certainly needs support. It makes sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u107	Yes, please, Bodnar of the faction, 1 minute. Then there's Glashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u108	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko's Yulia Block is the Fatherland Party. You know, I want to put a little bit of order in the question that we're talking about. In fact, the blocks are formed not after the elections, but before the elections. And this is a normal global norm; there is nothing wrong with it when people unite for some single purpose. And which will help, and this way helps them achieve that goal. The Yulia Timoshenko Block will support this bill. We see quite a positive trend. There are no warnings on our part. We know very well that the Fatherland party is well-known, and all the other parties that we have today are represented in us. They are willing to unite with us and go on one front. Therefore, there is no reason to prevent this bill. Moreover, a historical figure can never have a right to be called, a block has no right to be called a historical figure, because a historical figure, that's the person who already is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u109	Please, Lechchenka from the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u110	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In Ukraine, some 190 political parties. Among them are many small parties made up of fragments of the wicked RUH and small parties that have been formed on the basis of individual oligarchic clans and slaughterhouses. They participated in the destruction of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, in the destruction of the Soviet Ukraine, in the destruction of the country's economic power, in the destruction of the poverty of the working people. Who will vote separately for these parties? That's why they hide behind the blocks behind the election blocks. I propose at the first stage to support the proposal of the drafter, and at the second stage, the bloc should be excluded from the electoral process for the election of Ukraine's national deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u111	Yes, dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Now let's try to figure out what this is all about. What are you talking about? It's not about what we're thinking. Let me explain. Most speakers say that we don't allow blocks to bear the names of personnel or historical persons, it's in an active bill, that is. And now you almost want to go back to the naming blocks is your right. So the discussion is perfect, Ivan Alexandrovich, don't mislead us. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[about naming constituencies]] [[Registration number 3167]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:22:21]] For-44 Not supported. John the Rabbit, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u112	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. In principle, I do not agree with Adam Ivanovich’s statement that this bill seems to have a camouflaged approach to allow for block names. Our bill contains norms, imperative norms, prohibitions on the use of surnames, use of historical figures for the name of constituencies. And why are we offering this? We propose to finally stabilize the party life and the system of government. Because behind these leaders, behind these attractive people, people who don't know how to read, we're going to talk so directly, I'm not talking about any value orientations or other things, and the level of Parliament is falling, our level of power is falling, the political system is destabilizing, the rules of the game are changing every day. This way the elector can't act, he can't form power, and he can't exercise his constitutional right, he can't be a source of power. That's why I'm saying again what you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u113	Ivan Alexanderovich, thank you. I think you know what's going to happen to the blocks soon. They are no longer in one law. The law that is proposed does not provide for the option that is being considered either. So we're just smoldering legislation. We are considering the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. [[on the social protection of citizens involved in other nuclear accidents, trials and military training]] [[Registration number 7211]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:24:33]] For 214 Supported. As reported by Velizhansky Sergey. Get ready from the Glasun Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u114	Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Your attention is given to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The bill proposes to extend the existing law to citizens affected by nuclear accidents other than Chernobyl, nuclear tests, and military training with the use of nuclear weapons. The listed category of citizens has already been assigned by law to the first, second or third category of participants in the liquidation of an accident at the Chernobyl station, but the benefits granted by law to these categories of Montenegrins, and in particular the right to one-time compensation for damage caused by health, the annual recovery aid provided for in article 48 of the Act, as well as the establishment of a pension to the extent envisaged for participants in the liquidation of an accident at the Chernobyl station, are not established for this category of citizens. In Ukraine as a whole, 6,000 of these citizens in this category. The bill is one and a half thousand. The introduction of benefits for the citizen category, which I am talking about, requires an additional budget of 115 million per year. In order not to break the budget balance, this year proposes the introduction of this law as of 1 January 2012, that is, from the beginning of the new budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u115	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u116	Half a minute. Dear colleagues, the adoption of the proposed law will allow for the realization of the right to benefits and compensation for the entire category of citizens who have suffered in the performance of their public and military duties. With regard to the comments of the Committee on Environmental Policy, if the idea of this law, honourable colleagues, is considered fair and fair, I would suggest that these remarks be reworked for a second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u117	Thank you. Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy Sergey Mikolayovich Glazunov
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u118	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster discussed at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on strengthening the social protection of citizens who participated in the elimination of other nuclear accidents and nuclear tests and military training with the use of nuclear weapons. I would like to say that the Committee on Environmental Policy does not for the first time address the issue, first considered in March 2004 at its meeting, and then made a decision. The committee insisted on the development and adoption of a separate legislative act identifying a source of funding to address the issue of social protection of Ukrainian citizens. With regard to Bill 7211, a number of important comments were made. According to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 22.05.2008, part 4 of article 54 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster, which is proposed to amend, is declared unconstitutional and has therefore ceased to be valid as of the date of adoption by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of the said decision. Ukraine’s legislation does not provide for the definition of radioactive contamination of the territory as a result of other nuclear accidents, except for the area that was exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Making changes to part 4 of article 54 and article 59 of the Law will result in ambiguous treatment of the provisions of these articles. I would like to say that, according to the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the bill needs to be finalized. The National Security and Defence Committee agrees with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate on the drafting of the bill. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law to give the subjects the right of legislative initiative to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u119	Thank you. Yes, shall we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Sign up for the discussion. Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, the problem that is being raised in this project is, of course, no one would mind. But just by the passages and the individual questions there, I think we need to end up, and the way the government is today coming up and developing a program, really, so it's a systematic solution to these issues, not to deal with them, not to approach them, I think, well, just by populism. And that's why I think, and I'm proposing to support this decision of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u121	Andrew Pavlovsky. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u122	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! The bill, introduced by the members of the Fraternity of Shadow and Velizhanski faction, is intended to compensate not only the liquidators themselves but also their families in the event of the death of the breadwinner if it is caused by the severe consequences of their involvement in the eradication of the Chernobyl disaster. And to get participants in nuclear trials, military training, and military personnel who were actively involved in the elimination of the Chernobyl disaster, to be included in their pensions. I think it's a very fair, urgent and timely bill, especially since there is still a bill in the Supreme Council, I think a disgraceful, governmental, 7562, which eliminates entirely or in part all the social benefits and benefits of the same Chernobyl disaster liquidators, participants in hostilities, war veterans, war invalids. And the government still expects it to stretch it, or break its deputies through its knees -- and extend these antisocial laws. And that's why I want to go to the Chernobyls again. This law is based on your support, with the support of your families. Because we know that there are many tragedies in families, when many of us are involved, the exterminators have gone out of this life just because they have received large doses of radiation. And so I think, first of all, the Party of Regions that promised to increase, not eliminate these benefits, pay off, should support them. Because the law that eliminates your benefits is still in the Supreme Council and is a threat to its adoption, so it is necessary to adopt a law that improves the condition of the Chernobylites and their families.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u123	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is absolutely not a political bill. Consider: The bill includes just 1,500 thousand people. Is that the number that's critical? What's this all about? This is about people who have participated in other nuclear accidents, trials, military training with nuclear weapons. They have, they are obliged to have benefits. By the way, what benefits do people have that are April 26? were they impressed since April 26? In Ukraine, we have three million, 278,000, 521 victims, including nearly half, 264,000, 329 children. These children have become parents today. And when you get to the Kyiv County Hospital today, see cancer in a six - year - old boy or girl, ask: Where? And today we're thinking, is one and a half thousand people a big number or not? No, little one, we had to evacuate 90,000 people from the polluted territories. And now there's over half a million people living in that area that's under increased radiation control. As a result, we owe a terrible debt to all those affected by the Chernobyl accident, and we must be responsible for the commitments of the Soviet Union to the prevention of nuclear accidents, accept and deal with nuclear testing, military training, and the use of nuclear weapons. I ask you to adopt this law, this is God's business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u125	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, registration number 7211. [[12:36:10]] For-82 Not supported. The factions. The bill was rejected. Region Party 2, BUT 28, Our Ukraine 21, Communists 25, Reforms didn't vote, People's Party 3, non-fractional 3. Honorary colleagues, Bill 7147 – Draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the author of the bill asks that it be removed from consideration, Konovaluk. I am voting for a motion to withdraw from the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 7147. Please vote. [[12:37:06]] For 260 Copy that. Let's take a look at the small bill, 7340 -- draft law amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on the interrogation of minors]] There is a motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[12:37:36]] For 211 Eugene Suslov, two minutes away from the committee, please. Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The draft of the Ukrainian Criminal and Procedural Code Act of 5.11.2010 was introduced by the People's Deputies: Suslovim, Samojlik, Mirošničenko, Knazević, Baranov and Lukjanov. [[on the interrogation of minor victims and witnesses]] [[Registration number 7340]] The bill was designed and worked closely with representatives of the judiciary, law - enforcement agencies, and many social organizations concerned about the fate of children. The daily bill was put into order on June 1 – International Children's Day. I will point out that the fate of Ukrainian children is indifferent to lawmakers and unites all of us here together. The bill proposes to amend article 49 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, articles 85-1, 85-2, 167, 171, 172, 206, 308 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. Put new articles 168 and 307 of the CPC in the new edition, as well as the new articles 167-1 in the new code. These standards apply to improving, mitigating the procedural features of the investigation, and the participation of children who have become victims or witnesses to crime. Children cannot and do not have the same rules as adults. This has to do with physical, physiological, and psychological weaknesses in the development of children. It's very difficult for a child to change his or her behavior of interrogation or withdrawal of children. In the process of investigation, the child is subjected to psychological or psychological stress.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u127	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u128	I think that a lot of people have probably had that kind of experience when it comes to involving children. Clearly, the subject is difficult enough to deal with. I think the committee will talk. But I would like to point out to the national MPs that sooner or later this topic needs to be raised and these issues need to be settled. So I'd like to support it in the first reading, and in the second reading, I think all the important and problematic issues will be removed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u129	Thank you. From the committee, Vladimir Moisik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u130	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Eugene Suslov described the bill in detail. And it started right from the fact that the copyright of the bill covers all the factions of our Parliament. A bill was considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Committee on Law Enforcement. I will say that, indeed, because of their psychological development, age, mental illness, and the need for witnesses to treat themselves especially. Hence, the authors propose a separate form of interrogation with a psychologist. This interrogation is to take place no later than 9 to 18 p.m. The interrogation of such a witness or a victim does not last longer than three hours. Witnesses who are not 14 years old are interrogated outside the premises where the previous investigation is conducted and so forth. So the committee believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis for the first reading. But at the same time, it allows for some legal irregularities. Inaccuracies can also be corrected by the authors themselves, by submitting legislative proposals and with us, colleagues, in preparing the bill for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u131	Thank you. Shall we vote? Princes, please, one minute. Knyazevitch is from the faction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u132	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I certainly, as co-author of this bill, cannot offer anything else than to ask the Supreme Council to actively support it. The point is that we actually have a serious failure in the KPC. In no way do we make exceptions to minors who, including those who have succumbed to total inhuman abuse, such as sexual abuse and violence. Now, according to UN statistics, think about 150 million girls and about 72 million boys getting sexually abused every year. And that's not exactly accurate. They are definitely hidden because, for example, there is no accurate data in Ukraine. And unfortunately, in 20 years, we haven't been able to solve this very important problem in a very complex way. So if we have a good will in the session room right now and we want to understand that these kids need help, we need a grown-up psychologist there, we need an investigator to understand that there's a certain period of time, and there's a certain possibility of a time where a child can be careful when it's ready to open up. Because statistically, again, 90 percent of these crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine, Bill 7340. [[on the interrogation of minor victims and witnesses]] Please vote. [[12:44:04]] For 109 Not supported. There's an offer, there's an offer to send a bill for further work. Please support this idea. Processing of the author. [[12:44:26]] For 293 Copy that. Dear colleagues, I'll explain again, because this is where the name comes up. For committee development. We can be sent to work on the committee, but we need to point out that the committee is working on it. And then the author stays on the side. And the best way to do that is to send the author to work. He's introducing a revised bill, taking into account what we've been discussing. First, the committee may not consider 30 days, or not at all, and the author may go back in one day. So the refinement, it might not work, it's also his right. Dear colleagues, before I sign up for "Vazne", I am voting on the proposal of the People's Deputies of Miroshnick and others who are asking to withdraw Bill No. 5151, the draft Law on Jury Executives. Please be supportive. [[12:45:42]] For 262 Supported. The bill was removed. Yes, Your Honor, we only have one draft of Carmazin left. Shall we consider it? Oh, no? Please sign up for "Virgin." Yes, please, we have an hour. Vladimir Moisik, follow him – Vladimir Lešchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u134	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! I want to draw the attention of the Party "For Ukraine!" to the criminal law policy that is being conducted by the current power in our country. I don't want to talk about political repression, I don't want to name names. But I draw the attention of the radio audiences, the television audiences and you, the honourable colleagues of the national MPs, to the bills that the coalition majority in our Parliament is voting or not voting. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the gross violation of the standards of the valid Constitution of Ukraine. The bill, which was voted out by the majority, excluded the people from participating in justice. This is directly provided for in the current Constitution of Ukraine. Now in justice, the national jury will not take part in the courts. The next law that proposed replacing the national jury with a jury yesterday was not supported by the coalition majority. Thus, the rule of the Constitution that people participate in the exercise of justice through the courts of jury and national jury is completely ignored by the majority coalition. Next. The Coalition has restricted, contrary to the Constitution, the term and the right of the suspect, the accused and his advocate to familiarize himself with the material of the case. That was never the case for the law to record that if you did not read the case in such a manner, you would be considered familiar with the material of the matter. This is a substantial, I repeat, violation of the rights of suspects, defenders, and their families. I would also like to point out that the president has made a commitment to the law of the government, which has been proposing the arrest of suspects accused only of crimes for which the sanction of the law has been imposed for more than five years. The president disagreed with this softening. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that there are no amnesty laws in Ukraine for two years. During the cadence of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, there is no pardon. As the former chairman of the Mercy Commission, I'm going to say that we have loved 50, 60, 70 people every month, there's no actual pardon going on right now. So if we don’t talk about specific criminal cases, about specific individuals, the legislative array shows that criminal law policy is not being carried out in the opposite direction, but rather in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u135	Thank you. I'd like to invite National Deputy Vladimir Leschenko, a faction of Communists. He will be followed by Stephen Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u136	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Last week, Ukrainian national deputies worked in regions with voters. At my personal reception in Chernig, Ninja, and Prilyków, I was approached with 56 personal and public questions. In addition, I met with voters in these cities, and I answered many questions. The main ones in communicating with people were: "Do people know that ordinary people live very badly? Are there consciences in MPs when they do not support the sessional sessions so necessary for voters of social bills? Do the President, the members of the government, the Ukrainian people's deputies ever live up to their promises of improving the standard of living of the population?" People asked me to answer these questions from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Among the most important problems that have not been addressed properly for two decades have been the return of undervalued savings, or honest work of earned money. I've told people that the Ukrainian Company's faction in the Supreme Council is constantly violating this issue, introducing relevant bills, proposing ways to solve the problem, calling it the source of compensation, but the authorities are ignoring our proposals. Representatives of the major capital in the Supreme Council of Ukraine deliberately do not vote in favour of draft laws on this issue, and the government does not provide funds to compensate savings during the formation of the state budget. The problems of the poor are of no concern to the rich. Here's a fresh example. On Tuesday, May 31st, the Supreme Council of Ukraine discussed the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Ukrainian Law, introduced by the national deputies of Ukraine, the Communists, Peter Mikolajovich Simonenko, Valentin Grigorovich Matthew and Peter Stepanovich Zibank, on State guarantees for the restoration of citizens’ savings. It was proposed that citizens' reduced savings amounting to 132 billion dollars should be allocated to domestic government debt, that they should be compensated in cash on 1 January 2012 in the amount of no less than the increase in domestic gross product, and that investors should be allowed to make non-cash payments for residential services, treatment, education, housing acquisitions, etc. But only 35 national deputies, including 26 Communists, voted in favour. It was completely ignored by the faction of the Party of the Regions, the People's Party, the MP group of Reforms for the Future. This is how they care for their constituents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u137	I'd like to invite you to Mr. Kurpil, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Victor Taran-Tarren. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u138	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, national MPs, TV and radio listeners! Today, tensions in society are so high that you wonder if there is anything that unites Ukrainians. It turns out that this is an idea of European integration, and this idea also does not create a conflict between power and opposition. In recent times, we have heard that Ukraine is close to signing a free trade and association agreement with the European Union. Undoubtedly, this is very important to the Ukrainian people, but that can be a hindrance to this. There are no doubt external factors, this is the pressure and resistance of fraternal Russia, the demandingness of the leaders of the European Union, but the most damaging to this process is our internal policy, which is conducted by the authorities. There is absolutely no economic policy that reduces jobs, prices, inflation, and external economic balance. So this could all undermine the stability of the Ukrainian currency, the bracelets. But European integration is primarily European humanitarian values: it's freedom of speech, it's democracy, it's the rule of law. And what do we have here? And in Ukraine we have selective justice, we have political prisoners, we have political persecution of opposition. For more than six months, the authorities have abused Lucenk. What's incriminating him? It was as if he had caused damage to the state for 50,000 dollars. Well, that's funny in the face of what the current authorities are doing! It's a billion-dollar loss. I'm going to give you an obvious example that's simple for everyone. The Donetsk authorities purchased 400,000 bracelets for the item. What, are the toilets gilded? Why does this fact not interest anyone in the present authorities, not in the prosecutor’s office? Interregional policy as well. tension. May 9th was the first series of movies under the general scenario "separate and rule." The extension could be June 22. If the authorities do not change and turn their faces to the people, if they do not stop political persecution, if they act on the principle of “disunity rather than unification of the people, ” then European integration will remain a dream that has not been realized. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u139	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u140	The Ukrainian people want to make European integration a reality so that we can be a full nation in a European home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u141	I'd like to invite Victor Taran-Terren. He will be followed by Korz Vitali Terentiyovich, who was given the word Eugene Chago. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u142	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. On TV at Savik Schuster, the Russian opposition German, who is periodically thrown into prison, expressed a very paradoxical thought that was not immediately noticed, which was apparently lost in the television debates. But the idea was that if Timoshenko was thrown into prison, Putin would be in Russia forever. Why did he say that? He actually repeated what Petlur said at the beginning of the last-century liberation contests, that without a free, democratic Ukraine there would be no free, democratic Europe or Russia. In other words, the question of whether or not Tymoshenko is going to be free or cynical is going to be the answer to whether Ukraine will be a democratic and legal state or not and, accordingly, whether Russia will be civilized. Whether it will develop as a normal state by applying some European principles or, on the contrary, it will begin a totalitarian term, according to the kegebist practice of rebirth of totalitarian Russia. And that's what Europe sees. That is why Europe fears that this will not happen. Because when Ukraine is once again a democratic state, and that is when Ukraine has a strong opposition, there will be no Russian empire. And, on the contrary, if the opposition is destroyed in Ukraine and the leaders are thrown away, it will also be a blow to the democratic Russia: there will be aggression, there will be an eternal king who will bring many hardships to the Russian people. I want to say purely for people in the so-called criminal case of so-called gas agreements. A criminal case, a crime is a crime scene when it's profited from it. Did Timothy’s personal gain come from this? I'm saying this to people: she didn't have that kind of profit. You could say that this deal could be better, but I'd like to see who would better sign it when all of Europe froze without gas, when President Yushchenko acted the way he did all the time, breaking up these negotiations, and when Russia was trying to break everything out of Ukraine. But you can talk about the quality of this deal, but there's no criminal offence. And that's why Timoshenko is essentially trying to judge the past. Tymoshenko is trying, as it sounds, not paradoxically, to judge for the future, for the future, to ensure that Ukraine does not become a normal, democratic state so that European values are not practiced in Ukraine. And so the question of freedom of Timoshenko, the question of opposition, the question of its freedom is growing out of the whole of Ukraine, as it's not surprising, it's growing on both the issue of freedom of Russia and the question of freedom of Europe. So today the world has closed down, and that's why you can see it, and that's understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u143	I'd like to invite Korz Vitali Terentiyovich, the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Andrew Pavlovsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u144	I want everyone in Ukraine to hear me. Today we have heard the wonderful aria of the finance minister in the background of the friendly choir of his one-party members from the famous opera "improvement of life" already today. However, behind the scenes is the second act of this opera, its main solution, namely: anything to put Julia Timoshenko to play so she can sit quietly in prison and not go to television where the professional masters of the evil word sail her around. Because Tymoshenko, as the previous head of the Ukrainian government, is bringing on television and public documents that clearly testify to the artificiality of the charges against her. It has come to the conclusion that the Attorney General of Ukraine, who is particularly obliged to respect the stated standards and respect for human dignity, is misleading citizens by informing the Inter channel on 24 May 2011 about the previous knowledge of the detention of Yulia Timoshenko on Tuesday. Instead, it is a fact that Julia Timoshenko did not really know anything about the filing of an investigator and the decision of the court of May 23 of this year to take her into custody, outside of which she had not been provided with the documents. The Attorney General does not respond to Julia Tymoshenko’s appeal, allowing her to fail to comply with the requirements of legislation, while setting an example for her subordinates of ignoring the human rights and laws of Ukraine. Not only does this contribute to the subjugation of the illegal actions of officials in the criminal process, but it also encourages the damage to the reputation of the leader of the political party, Fatherland, by supporting the attempt to discredit Yulia Timoshenko in the eyes of Ukrainian citizens. However, this is the third criminal case committed in the last half of the year against the previous head of government, after two other cases have been filed on grounds of unfounded charges against Julia Timoshenko. The facts show that it is the defamation of disgrace and dishonor, and thus the removal from the sphere of social and political activity of the world-renowned leader of the opposition in Ukraine that is one of the goals of today's investigation. Therefore, on behalf of and under the commission of the BUT-"Paternity" faction, in accordance with the legislation, I demand that replies to parliamentary requests be made to the Attorney General. In the meantime, artificial charges against Julia Timoshenko have no bearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u145	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u146	Those who have no bearing on it or on improving life now are merely ruining the authority of Ukraine in the world. Thank you all for listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u147	I'd like to invite Andrew Pavlovsky, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." It will be followed by Eugene Marmazov, a faction of Communists in Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u148	Respectable compatriots! Andry Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko – “The Fatherland”. I would like to address, first of all, our respected pensioners, who in our country are nearly 14 million citizens. You know, the government has again passed the so-called pension reform law, which should actually be called the Retirement Genocide Act of our senior citizens. There are all the most unpopular, cannibalistic standards, such as the five-year increase in the pension age for women since September 1, 2011, as an increase for every individual, every citizen of the required employment, for ten years, it takes even more work to get a minimum pension. There is a significant deterioration in this law in the pension provision of our military personnel, militias. They are offered more service for five years than retirement for years, and it is cynically stated that, for example, a police major may retire at 45 years of age for retirement, but he will receive his special military or militia pension only after he has reached 60 years of age. How can we be human at this time? And I also want to mention what's supposed to be there. It's predicted that the deadline for receiving state social assistance for women is to increase from 58 to 63 years. And that, despite the fact that the government has left the law, does not call for the removal of all social benefits and payments of 16 categories of citizens, ranging from black people, Afghans, participants in hostilities, veterans, pensioners, war children. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the government of Azarova continues to ignore the demands of the Pay for Work Act, manipulates the single tariff network. As a result, for example, a doctor in a higher category is underpaid and is not paid 710 dollars. A surgeon in the upper category is paid only 1,500 dollars on Azarov’s salary, even though he has to receive 2,000,323 bracelets. So surgeons don't pay more than 800 dollars. And to seniors, to professors, Janukovich's current authority is not paying, he's stealing more than a thousand dollars. And given that they are trying to cover up the deterioration of life today, they want to quit playing, arrest Julia Timoshenko, hold Yuri Lucenka, Makarenko, Didenka, and other political prisoners there for no reason. Because these people can lead national protests. And now 15 national deputies are all waiting for Psongka to be admitted. But the Attorney General, as the assistants said, suddenly fell ill. He hides himself from the national MPs because he refuses to answer unpleasant questions about political repression. So conclude whether we need this criminal authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u149	I would like to invite Eugene Marmazov, a colleague of Danielenko's, to take the floor. In general, six minutes' notice, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! Let me inform you of the acute issues that have to be addressed by the Special Privatization Monitoring Commission. Regrettably, today there are many violations of privatization that are becoming possible in a climate of circular corruption. For example, for six years, it has not been possible to return to the people the multimillion-dollar property of the Sevastopol State Enterprise Atlantica, which has been unleashed by a dog by a fake bankruptcy. After the sale at a clearly underpriced price and with gross violations of the law, the property of the Atlantic. It was then immediately reselled at a real price and with the subsequent fictitious and subsequent fictitious bankruptcy of companies engaged in illegal transactions. That's the whole operation, and there's no business. The illegal transactions in the property of Atlantica were based on a manifestly illegal decision of 2006 by the Kamennobrod District Court of Luhansk. So far, it has only been possible to obtain a judicial recognition of the invalidity of the results of competitions for the sale of the property of the enterprise and subsequent reselling transactions. To that end, I have had to send 24 parliamentary requests to different courts, there, the Attorney General's Office, the BSS, the fund and so on, and so on and so forth. But the issue will not be resolved until the Office of the Attorney-General, the BSS, the Statehood Fund is effectively inactive. A similar fate was achieved by the State-owned company Nicopolski Pipe Plant. In 2008, the company was also bankrupted and then transferred to a private company dealing with wine and water spills. It's an enterprise that releases pipes for space. The Commission has made great efforts to ensure that the Office of the Attorney-General submits to the Supreme Court a cassation for the annulment of court decisions declaring the plant bankrupt. Well, that's a long way to go before the rule of law is restored. For three years now, the Dnepropetrov Economic Court and the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine have continued their claim to return property to the State of an illegally privatized enterprise. All this time of just decision, workers are expected to be dismissed, and more than 400 of them are in arrears of more than 1 million dollars. No less tragic is the fate of the Alexanderogol drilling company. In its time, the Mintopenergo transferred the enterprise to so-called, effective owners. By the way, this landlord is sitting in our room. Who practically destroyed the enterprise. Two careers have been sunk, the equipment's been looted. More than 10,000 workers worked for the company, and they produced 13 million tons of coal per year and over 4 and a half million tons of briquette. Now it's zero. The decisions of the Commission for the Settlement of the Situation in the area of Alexanderiyugol, addressed to the State Welfare Fund, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Mintofilienergo, the Attorney-General's Office, were in fact ignored. As a result, there was an explosive situation in the city, as thousands of people lost their jobs were desperate. There is even no way to obtain employment books for pension and benefits. And nobody cares. I've only given three examples, many of them. It's the same Herson Combin factory that they're raising, here's the communists, it's the same Odessa. Areanda and others. Such examples are numerous. In fact, there has been a situation of total irresponsibility and lawlessness. People no longer believe there will be order. I believe that the situation of privatization corruption should be considered at a meeting of the Government, the General Prosecutor's Office and possibly the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, as this is a serious threat to the national interests of our country. Please consider this statement as a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u151	I ask for appropriate parliamentary requests to be made. Hennadi Zadirko, the Reform Group for the Future, is invited to the floor. It will be followed by Vasile Derevljany, a faction of "BUT is the Fatherland". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! In my statement on behalf of the parliamentary group Reforms for the Future, the People's Authority Party, I want to raise the issue of the situation that has arisen in the shipbuilding sector of Ukraine. Today, in times of economic crisis, when other nations try to support and preserve their productive potential, Ukraine acts exactly the opposite. A clear example of this is the work of the tax authorities of the Mikolai region, which are aimed at the deliberate destruction of the working shipbuilding enterprises of Mikolayev. It's the kind of cynical way they do it. Because the Mikolai tax collectors chose the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Shipbuilding in Ukraine as a tool for the destruction of the shipbuilding industry. The law provides that advance payments received by enterprises are included in the gross income of such enterprises during the tax period during which the ship is surrendered to the customer. In 2006-2007, the shipbuilding sector of Ukraine saw an upsurge, and a foreign customer who paid for the purchase of foreign currency appeared. Ukraine’s Law on Taxation of Business Income makes it clear that income received by a foreign currency taxpayer is listed in a bracelet at the official rate of the National Bank of Ukraine, which was active on the date of receipt of such income, and is not counted in connection with the change in the exchange rate of the currency. This legislation is clearly defined. But. But the tax authorities in the Mikolai region have their own opinion on how to support the shipbuilding industry. They believe that the valuation of foreign currency advances should take place at the official rate of the NBA not on the date of receipt of advance payments, as stated by law, but not on the date of transfer of the vessel to the customer. This interpretation of the law has resulted in an artificial increase in the tax liabilities of shipbuilding enterprises. Yes, at a small enterprise, Lyman Shipyard, after a planned tax check, Mikolayev’s tax liability on income tax and fines amounted to 8 million dollars. Although the company had completed the construction of an ordered vessel before the exchange rate had increased, it was under trial at the time. And the cost of all currency advances at the rate of 5.05 dollars per U.S. dollar was spent entirely on the construction of this ship. In January 2009, all that was left was to hand the ship over to the customer, which was done. But the dollar was already 7.07. At Vaden Yards Ocean, the second shipbuilding company, after the same planned inspection, owed more than 40 million dollars. The MP's “For the Future” Group understands the taxpayer's position on the budget, but it is clear that such actions and the artificial incursion of tax liabilities will lead to total destruction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u153	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u154	Shipbuilding enterprises in Ukraine. After all, instead of focusing on finding new orders and developing businesses, management is now forced to spend time and money on legal protection in courts. The MP for the Future calls for the immediate cessation of the illegal actions of Santa Claus taxpayers in relation to shipbuilders, warns against the possible spread of such shameful experience to other shipbuilding enterprises in Ukraine, which will lead to the destruction of the sector. We want to remind the State Tax Administration of the thesis announced by the President of Ukraine at the Economic Reform Committee on February 22, 2011.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u156	where the President stressed, "The taxpayer is supposed to be a business partner, because it's business development that increases the revenue of the state treasury." The MP's Reform Group for the Future requires urgent action on the next issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u157	I'd like to invite Vassil Wooden, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Vasil Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u158	Dear Ukrainians! Basil Wooden faction "BUT" – "Fatherland", Ternopilish. From this rostrum, I want to talk about the anti-national, gang-related actions of representative Yanukovich in Ternopilish. President Yanukovic and Prime Minister Azarov are not paying any attention to what the head of ODA Hoptyan is doing in the field. I just want to give you two very strong facts. First. In this room, a parliamentary request was made for Prime Minister Azarov, who refers to the derebent of land by the head of ODA Hoptian in the Podvolocchia region. Unfortunately, however, the Prime Minister of Ukraine did not address the issue by entrusting the issue with dealing with the head of ODA. And instead of giving the people 150 inhabitants of the village of Kamyanok the land, the head of the ODA of Hoptian began terrorizing those who turned to me. Next. There was a terrible incident in the territory of the city of Ternopolis. I'd like to say that Elite Center is here to hide. Because the Ukrbudinwest Corporation, led by Zinovy Šipanowski, has fraudulently robbed about 3,000 people in the Ternopil region of about a billion dollars in total. But, far too far away, a month ago, instead of trying to figure it out and bring it to justice, the head of the district administration of the Hoptians rewarded him in an economic forum. And today these 3,000 people in the city of Ternopol have been addressing the head of the administration, the city head of Ternopol, for six months now, there is absolutely no action. Today, too, law enforcement agencies are inactive. Today, what is being done in Ternopolish, the higher echelons of power do not pay any attention at all. Because of this, I'd like the state's leadership to pay serious attention and help these 3,000 spiders and pay them back, to pay them back for the construction. And then here's what I want to say. Here in this room was another provocation against our leader, that Julia Volodymyrna was involved in a waste of funds during the 2008 disaster. I would like to state that in this room, all the national deputies have decided that the funds to be allocated should be managed by the heads of district administrations and district heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u159	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u160	I'm going to the Attorney General's Office to take care of those people and bring them to justice, because we've repeatedly called on them to really steal money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u161	I'd like to invite Vassil Krawczuk, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u162	Basil Krawczuk, Faction "BUT" – "Fathership", Hmelnickin. I would like to point out that the worst thing that can happen in any country is the uncontrolledness of power. So in the democratic world, there is a strengthening of the status and empowerment of the rights of opposition, especially in the division of control over the activity of power. That is the kind of control that the authorities now want to avoid, and at all levels. Because of this, the disgruntled are harassed in the capital city and in remote villages. Sadly, though, false cases are pursued only by those who have a bearing on opposition, beginning with intimidation and threats to those who are already banned from even participating in the congregations. For example, let me give you Theophilus region of the Hmielni district, where the common people are intimidated by what they are. They're threatening to get fired from their jobs that they came to the congregations to set up an initiative group to hold an all-U.S. referendum on one of the most important issues, whether it's selling our wealth, our countries or not. At the same time, no one in Hmělničina responds to bribes that reach 10 million dollars. And what has been stolen in Ukraine for billions, and no crime has been brought against the authorities. By violating the new criminal case against Julia Timoshenko, the authorities are trying to prevent her from personally participating in the election to the Supreme Council. The world community claims that the Ukrainian authorities have taken over Yulia Timoshenko, and they are charging her with one criminal charge after another until they are able to throw her in prison and thus remove her from the political arena. What does the apparent illegal persecution of Julia Timoshenko reveal to our constituents, ordinary citizens? Only that each one of them can succeed and protect himself do they have no chance at all. The application of selective justice in Ukraine is condemned by the United States of America, the European Union. They stress that selective justice and opposition leaders are unacceptable in democratic societies. Or are we not part of a democratic society for a long time? We can see where we're going by the actions of the authorities. Today, by pushing Julius Timoshenko on a political golf course, everyone should consider what position and position the people of Ukraine will appreciate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u163	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u164	After all, Ukrainian democracy, the rule of law, and justice will be impaled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u165	I invite Yuri Karmazin, the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. He will be followed by Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The great citizens of Ukraine! There are a few circumstances that force you to turn to them. I would now like to draw the attention of the President of Ukraine, the government, to what is happening in the Kharkiv region. Governor Dobkin, I call the governor, because they're acting like governors, not heads of administration, they're going to Lviv to do different pianists, and I'm asking the President's Administration, the government to force him to go to Kupyansk Kharkiv district. Please force me to go to the Kharkiv County Court of Appeal, throw a citizen of the Russian Federation out of there not because I don't like the citizens of the Russian Federation, but because Borodin is a Russian citizen and he makes decisions and sentences on behalf of Ukraine. Is that normal? Since 2004. And this disgrace is tolerated! For one thing, such a governor had to be persecuted, and we think of something else. Victor Fedorovich! There's something wrong with you! It's not just the sewers leaking, it's obvious that other roofs are leaking! Why did I say that Kupyansk needed a valid governor for the time being? That's where I'm being approached by a group of meatballs. It turns out that everything is already destroyed in the city: a foundry, a sugar plant, all the bases, and other businesses. Now it's turn. Through the Pension Fund, it is said that the employees have collected a minimum amount of debt into the city's pension fund, and initiated bankruptcy. What Judge Speedyn does. Even though they wanted to protect the enterprise, prevent liquidation, make a peace treaty, he said, "What are you so worried about? [[It's quoted by the workers.]] I've already cut down dozens of factories, and what, Kharkiv's economy has been affected?" So, Mr. Speedy, these liquidators are going to eliminate Ukraine, but you're not going to be able to do that. I think the people are more likely to get rid of such liquidators. I'm paying attention to the U.S. Attorney General's Office, that there are 3 businesses, and 3 companies can't work now because one thing at a time is being destroyed. metal scrape and so on. I'm asking you to consider this a parliamentary request. And I'm done. I conclude that, ladies and gentlemen, from this high rostrum many years ago, I warned you not to vote for the privatisation of the Crucifixion. And what: 226 was in favour, one Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u167	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u168	How did this end?Oh, my God! Now, the massive mining of iron ore, the uncontrollable housing of shelters, threatens the Horn of Curves, the threat of disasters — earthquakes, the flow of villages. It could provoke any disaster. I wish I could.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u169	Yuri Anatolyovich, please finish because the people are standing here waiting for their right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u170	I'm done. I would like to hear the situation of technological security that took place in Bloody Rose, which took place in Zitomir, Kirovograd, Kakhovtsi, and Nicopoli. And that's what I'm asking you to consider as a parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u171	Please form as a parliamentary request. I invite Vladimir Jaroschuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, to whom the word Chechetov Mikhailo Vasilovich is addressed. He will be followed by Stanislaw Argewittin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u172	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! During my work in the constituency number 76 last week, I was approached by the head of the Irrigated Gardening Institute of the National Academy of Agar Sciences, located in the city of Melitopol of Zaporez Region, which is concerned about the future prospects of its scientific institution in connection with the reform of agrarian science under the authority of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 06.04. In 2011, number 279. The Irrigated Gardening Institute of Sidorenka for 80 years has been providing scientific support for the development of industrial gardening and is a leading scientific institution in the southern steppe area of Ukraine, which has a concentration of about 45 percent of industrial fruit crops, and a concentrated production of bone crops. According to its scientific achievements, the Institute has the authority and recognition of producers in the southern region of Ukraine. This is confirmed by the fact that 60 percent of plants, such as blacks and talls, grow the variety of the institution's selection. In total, 93 varieties of fruit have been created by the Institute, most of which are cherry, with many parameters exceeding the best overseas analogs and are the pride of the Zaporez Region. There is demand for varieties in black and foreign countries, so on contractual grounds the institute cooperates with France, where production testing of varieties is conducted, Canada, and started with Bulgaria, where it is interested not only in varieties but in the technological development of the institute. The scientific process of creating, testing and further introducing new varieties and technologies for the production of the main fertile species of the southern region of Ukraine provides a state-owned enterprise – research farm "Melitopolski", as an experimental base of the Institute of Irrigated Gardening called Sidorenka National Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Fully aware of the importance and necessity of reforming the development of agar science, I ask the Prime Minister not to allow an effective scientific institution to be transformed into a regional research station, as directed by the Cabinet of Ministers. The consequences of such a restructuring will have a negative impact on the development of the traditional southerly sector of gardening and will lead to its decline. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u173	I'd like to invite you to Stanislav Arzvetin, the faction of "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense. He will be followed by Yuri Gnatkevitch, the "BUT – "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u174	Today thousands of Ukrainian workers have been waiting to hear what will change in our country in part of the state's migration policy. This is a bill registered by Karmazin-Sharov-Gnatkovic. I received a phone call from the Zakartat district. I just want to say that there wasn't enough time for the Supreme Council to consider this bill. But if he's in the daytime, I think they'll see him soon. And our employees in Zacarpatsk, Lvivsk, Ivano-Frankiv region, I say to them that so far this law provides for social protection for wage earners. This is about ensuring, at the level of the State, the rights of citizens through agreements with different countries where we are employed, reaching an agreement with the European Union states on a simplified visa regime or visa-free regime, reaching agreements with some countries on a simplified regime for crossing the state border of residents of the border of Ukraine, and so on. The main block is, of course, what's going to be introduced at state level on social guarantees, because a lot of issues today are unresolved. For example, what if the family lost a breadwinner? And that's just terrible statistics on how many people die on wages. How Can I Cope With Retirement? What about the transfer of the money that they make, the hard-earned money they bring to Ukraine? A strange situation is that rich Ukrainians are taking money out of Ukraine, and our earners are moving in, and every day they fear that taxes will be imposed on them. And so they have to transport this hard-earned money through a variety of financial intermediaries who take between 10 percent and 20 percent for the delivery of that money. Those who do not believe or fear such institutions will take their own. As they say, with their hands they have very big problems and even many fatalities. I think that these issues will be taken into account at the next stage of our consideration of this bill. And I would like to convey from my countrymen what we have recently discovered in our home in Zakarpatta, the Highlands, in the village of Kolocava, the first monument in Ukraine to the workers. Among other things, when it was discovered, my fellow villagers said that such a monument should be placed in Pechersk, primarily for officials to walk and see how hard they live. I'd like to bring you statistics, when I did a sociological survey, there's no family in which someone would not die on wages. In the last 50 years, 98 people have been killed. We took their names. Over a thousand years, this is nearly 200 people. Neither World War I nor World War II claimed so much human sacrifice. So I think in our country there's a way to think about how to protect and how to create conditions for those Ukrainians who are the best investors in our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u175	I'd like to invite Yuri Gnatkiewicz, the "BOUT-"Paternity" faction. Peter Hassuk will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u176	So far, I've always been a politician and taken it seriously. Today I want to be a former philosopher, a language teacher and a little humor. We've had this lexical cliché lately -- the term "selective approach." I want to explain what that means. That's why I'm not going to give it to people. And today it means I'm not gonna plant it. It's about playing, and I'm not gonna plant it. Look at this. I was an MP for the first time, and we passed the Privatization Act. I didn’t think there would be a man who had money to buy a factory. And when the process went down, all the factories and factories were ripped apart. We made such a decision that we needed help with where you took the money. Even though one oligarch showed you a clue as to where he got the money? What is it today that has all kinds of factories, factories, and industries? You see: Lucenko, even when he was a minister of the interior, handed over over 200 criminal cases to the Attorney General’s Office. And when I found out, I had an answer, only eight of them were considered. And it's probably not serious. Those involved in the theft may not have been considered. This is called the "selective approach." And here's the interesting thing. That those who took and stole into the nations became oligarchs, and those who now took the oligarchs to the oligarchs give to the State, such as our Makarenko, who took the gas into the oligarch and gave it to the State, not in his pocket, so he sits behind bars. What would happen to the money of the Kyoto Protocol, the Japanese money? For ecology, if Julia Volodymyrna had given them away, they would have been stolen on the way. And she gave them up to people, and they want her to play. But we have a very large original sample approach -- this is the Minister of Tobacco. Look what's going on. In Moscow, nearly one million Ukrainians and it is often there, reports Moscow. So he's not breaking the question there, and where there's a school for Ukrainians, there's no school for Ukrainians. In Israel, a huge number of Jews left Kiev, Ukraine, Russia, and they are Russian-speaking. What Mr. Tobacco doesn't go to Israel, and he doesn't say, "Listen, where there are Russian schools, but only schools on Hebrew." Why isn't he going there? Because that's probably what they're going to show him is what you're asking for. And in Kiev, he wants to, and now he's announcing, and he's fomenting Gorjunov, who is now the head of the education department, who needs to go back to Kiev and make the Kyiv gardens of Ukrainian language and schools Russian speaking again. The Suslov Process of Rustification is returning. In place of Suslov came the Smoker. I address all the teachers, all the parents of Kyiv. Don't listen to Smoker and Gorunov. Smokers come and go, and Ukraine and the Ukrainian state, language will always be. And it will always be necessary to know it to all young people. The Russian language will not escape from you, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u177	Thank you. I'd like to invite Peter Gasuk. I'd like to invite Peter Gasuk, the Reform Group for the Future. It will be followed by Sergey Hrapov, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u178	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished radio listeners, respected colleagues! The parliamentary group of Reforms for the Future wants to draw attention to the problems of the Ukrainian oil market. Nearly half of the light oil products in the Ukrainian market — gasoline and diesel — are imported. Statistics from the past year 2010 show that 4 and a half million tons of foreign fuel have been imported into Ukraine, or 400,000 tons more than in 2009. As a result, almost half of the country’s oil was imported. In doing so, its own production of petroleum products is falling. The reason is that our oil refineries cannot compete with the schemes for oil imports. Since September last year, Livela has started importing, which was released by a court decision from excise duty and VAT. Until recently, it was used by most oil traders, avoiding payment of taxes. They were given the opportunity to import oil products from the Union at a lower cost than domestic oil refineries offered. It should be noted that for five and a half years the company did not actually pay taxes. Consider these figures. In 2006 she paid 0 bracelets, in 2007 – 4 bracelets, in 2012 – 12 bracelets! It's for the materials that our commission has that I'm working on. On this basis, the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances and consequences of activities in the Ukrainian oil market of Livela may conclude that the company did not pay taxes on imported petroleum products on the basis of judicial decisions. At present, the interim commission of inquiry, which held two meetings, is actively working on the study of materials on the Livelies case. I am convinced that the conclusions of an active commission will be objective, balanced, and orderly in the market for petroleum products and the protection of the rights of domestic oil companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u179	I'd like to invite Sergey Chrapov, a faction of Communists. He will be followed by Michael Volintz, the Faction "BOUT"- "Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u180	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! As a national deputy of Ukraine, I was approached by the working group of the Open Shareholder Society, Ordzhenikidsev Mining and Enrichment. Owing to the uncertainty of the land-removal situation for mining, namely, owing to the lack of land allocated to the GOC, the operation of mountain equipment has been partially suspended since 1 May 2011. Five hundred and forty-six people are out of order, i.e. it doesn't work. Today, the city-based enterprise, which employs 5.5 thousand staff members, is talking about the continuation of existence in general. The Ordzhonikidzewski HOC is the largest strategic enterprise for the mining of marganze ore in Ukraine. Indeed, the fate of the city of Ordzhonikidze depends on the operation of the combination. The company pays 2.3 million dollars in tax fees, representing 47 per cent of the city budget. The absolute majority of the GOK workers will not be able to find jobs in their own profession if the business is stopped and they continue to be dismissed, but not only in their own profession, but in general any other work in the city. A stop will place the families of his employees behind the threshold of survival. This will certainly lead to social tensions, catastrophic increases in unemployment, urban crime levels and the situation may not be controlled at all. Even today, the miners are ready for radical action. But the owner of the enterprise, sadly known to the Privat Group, simply cares about the management of the enterprise consciously handles the destruction of the GOK. Knowing that the development was without proper documentation, finger - toe management did not strike to legitimize the land where the combination worked. Having a clear understanding that it is better to drive ore from Africa, the oligarchs are doing everything they can to destroy the GOC, cut its equipment into scrap metal and wash their dirty hands, leaving the city of Ordzhonikidze and its inhabitants without livelihood. For the inhabitants of Dnepropetrov region, the "Privata" behaviour is not new. They know more than one example of this group's mismanagement in the region. At first, there is a deliberate effort to bring the enterprise to a pen and then either declare bankruptcy or sell assets, no one thinks of ordinary people. All of the above confirms the rightfulness of us Communists when we speak of the basic sectors of the economy: metallurgical, mining, machine-building, chemical and other sectors of the economy to be nationalized. Examples of “effective private owner” clearly indicate that only a State can manage enterprises such as the Ordzhonikidzewski HOC for the benefit of the people and workers. Plants should belong to the people, not to a bunch of billionaires who are parasitic at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u181	I'd like to invite Michael Wolintz, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." It will be followed by John Stojko, "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u182	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished TV and radio listeners! Today, coal miners from all over Ukraine gathered in the city of Krasnoarmia in the Donetsk region. Why did they gather? They demand that the authorities immediately carry out the indexation of pensions and regressions not only for themselves but also for all of the Ukrainian miners who had received pensions and regressions before 2008. They also require the authorities not to block, but still allow their majority to accept amendments to article 48 of the Mining Law, which would allow miners to receive compensation for the use of electricity and gas if they have autonomous heating, and also if they live in the private sector. In addition, today, Mikola Pavlovich Shitnik of Pavlovgrad, head of the Independent Association of Disabled Mining Workers, announced at this meeting in the Donetsk Region that the disabled miners in Pavlovgrad will soon begin to starve in view of the fact that the authorities are destroying the independent mining industry, the disabled miners. And the next thing I want to say is what's going on right now in the city of Krasnohrmia. One of the factions of the city of Krasnoarmijska appealed to the mayor of the city, as well as to the members of the session, that under the initiative of the mayor of Láshenko, there is going to be a reconstruction of Šibankov’s area and a cost of a reconstruction of a million and a half dollars. In this area, where the ceiling is located, the monument Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk has been built since 2006 as a result of the session’s decision. And the strange thing is, they have to put it on this ceiling. They're going to put a copy of the Eiffel Tower, and they have a cost, I'd say, of a million and a half dollars. What's going on? In the city of Krasnoarmia, five bracelets of patients are regularly collected from medical records, paper, and at the same time trying to spend such funds inexplicably on what kind of project. We know about many corrupt things that are being done around the city's leadership. And so, on my part, I prepared a parliamentary address on this issue. I would also like to say the following: I have today announced a parliamentary question about the persecution of political ties, including the persecution of political leader Yulia Timoshenko. And what I'm saying is that the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, like all other members of the fraternal factions, will not allow such persecution today. We are capable of protecting our leaders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u183	I invite John Stoick, the faction “Our Ukraine. ” He will be followed by Paul the Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, compatriots! I would like to point out that our party is "For Ukraine!" She has repeatedly pointed out that every day of the so-called Minister of Education, Dmitri Tobacco, inflicts harm on both Ukrainian education and the entire humanitarian space of our state, particularly in the financial aspect. Let me give you a few examples. For days in Kiev, as well as in the district centers again, students came out against this minister's extension to the Supreme Council of the Education Act, which is also a nuisance of the autonomy of the institutions, as well as a deterioration of the lives of both students and teachers. And so far, in Donbas, Ukraine is struggling to be able to teach its children in Ukrainian schools, mostly in Russian and in Russian. Today’s authorities want to close schools under so - called optimisation in order to use these facilities exclusively for their own purposes. And it's a pleasure that people in Donetsk are already making progress. For example, School No. 111 of the Donetsk Court will not be closed today. In the Red Light, in the presence of many established parents, School No. 15 will not be closed again each year. But these are permanent victories, we need our children to learn without fear of tomorrow. And so, really, I would say yes, this apherist from education, not only does he produce resistance in society, he not only brings it under the walls of parliament, but he's also on the streets of students, parents, but he's also a machinator in the financial sphere. For example, this minister recently took out a three-minute video for almost a million dollars of budget money, and we all realize that this video is worth a few times less. Also, when it comes to his school affairs, on May 26, the Ministry of the World made a deal for the sum of 104 million dollars for the purchase of textbooks. And when you talk about the price of these textbooks, you have to pay 150 dollars for one textbook, and for a textbook in Polish, you have to pay 1,168 dollars of our money, or taxpayers. And that's why I'm calling from this rostrum to the Attorney General's Office: to verify all the arms of the poor Minister of Tobacco, to draw conclusions and to say no to all citizens of Ukraine and to the parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u185	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u186	Having sent this minister away. And I'm also addressing the President of Ukraine. Viktor Yanukovich, this minister does not work for Ukraine, and you must as a guarantor of the Constitution of Ukraine do everything to ensure that he is not here tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u187	Thank you. I would like to invite Paul Silent of the Reform Group for the Future. He'll be finishing the hour of "Virgin" Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u188	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. "Reforms for the Future" group, Paul Movcan. I have to talk about topics that, unfortunately, were not present in the hall today as a matter of immediate resolution. This was the June 1st meeting of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality to one of the oldest cities in Ukraine – the city of Preyaslava-Hmelnicky, where I found out that there was a planned, powerful and consistent one, and a large-scale action or war against the fundamental values of the Ukrainian nation had already taken place. What do I mean? Here are just two facts: First, what happens to the Decade Church in Kiev, when on May 25 of this year the foundation of the Tenth Church began to be equipped with technology and construction work. Large-scale construction with steel concrete palms, engineering networks threaten significant cultural and historical losses. The restored object will no longer be considered a monument to the cultural heritage. In addition, a number of architects have strongly warned of the inadequacy of rebuilding the Decatholic Church’s buildings in the modern - day urban situation. It will dissipate sharply with a bright Baroque monument, the Andrian Church. So what's going on there is just one piece of what's going on all over Ukraine. What Michaelo Wolintz said is being done now in the city of Krasnoarmian, where an attempt is being made to build is not clear to the Ukrainian nation, what is the value, not the monument of Shevchenka, but the tower of Eiffel. In Preyaslav, mentioned by me, the Pereaslav National Reserve is passed on to the Church, and their exposures are closed down. Experts see in it the deliberate destruction of museums that do the most to shape the national consciousness of Ukrainians, while in the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate they speak of the revival of monasteries, at the same time assures us that museums continue to operate. The Museums of Folk Clothing of Central Transnistria, the ancient Russian architecture, and the Museum of the Inventory of Bernardos’ Electric Welding were adorned by the recent city of Preyaslava. Today, contrary to the decision of the State Service on National Cultural Heritage, which banned the construction of the Michael Church, which is one of our first century pearls of architecture, this is one of our foundations of fundamental, our culture and spirituality, which is already upgraded, has already been given some incomprehensible fact that it is a dome, not a dome, some kind of building that has created this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u189	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u190	is fixed in pictures by Taras Grigorovich Shevchenka. Amazing things are happening there. In the National Historical and Ethnographic Reserve in Preyaslav in the church of the village of Andrushi I., there is a service that is forbidden by laws. Who Rules the Ukrainian State? Kiril Gundiev or Senchin, Deputy Prime Minister of Russia? I'd like to ask the President of Ukraine if he has any information or if he's being misinformed: what's going on and what's going on, we need to stop them right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u191	Thank you. Please prepare an appropriate request for Paul Silent and John Stoick’s address regarding the Ministry of Education. Before you know it, I'd like to invite Oleg Laishka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u192	Thank you very much, Reverend Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow citizens! Since there are so many of you who are asking me the question: why did the First Vice Speaker of Parliament Adam Martinyuk strangle me on May 18th, I would like to inform you about that. On May 18, the Supreme Council considered a bill to increase the employer’s responsibility for not paying wages. On the 18th of May morning, I had a meeting with a working group of the Kyivmishkbud Holding Company, where 300 people have almost six months' wages. On May 17, I was visiting the trailers in an oil factory, where 150 people do not receive a salary for 8 months. In the trailers of the oil plant and in Kiev, to builders and to tens of thousands of people who do not receive wages throughout the country, I promised that if I had the opportunity, I would definitely contact the authorities of the State for immediate payment of wages. And when I was looking at the bill on the employer's responsibility for not paying the salary, I went to the chairman of Adam Martinyuk's session and asked him to give me one minute to ask the President, the Prime Minister, to ask people to pay their wages. Adam Martinyuk told me he wouldn't let me, because I have no right to speak. I said to him, literally, literally, "Adam Ivanovich, by Christ God please, give me one minute. Hundreds of people sit without pay, their families eat nothing, and you don't give me a minute." He says to me again, "No, I won't." And then I said to him literally, "I understand why you don't even give me a minute to defend people because you get paid on time, you live in a state house, you don't pay utility bills, so you don't hurt people's problems. That's why I, the Pharisees, promise you that when I come to power, I will take away from you both the pension you illegally earned. Because it's because of your work that millions of people all over the country have no wages and have nothing to feed their families for." After that, he grabbed my throat. I mean, when I told him that hundreds of families all over the country -- thousands of them, sitting without work, without pay, sitting still. As soon as I said I'd take my house and my pension, I grabbed my throat. That's the most important thing for them is a date and a pension. It is interesting how the Head of Parliament reacted to this conduct of Martiniuk. He said that he was jealous of Martinyuk because he was not in his place when he strangled me. Apparently, Vladimir Litwin was just as jealous of General Pukach, who strangled Gongadze for a team of former leaders of the state. But what I'm trying to say is, you can't stop everyone. And I have stood and will stand on guard for the interests of the Ukrainian people, on the watch of robots that no one here will say a word about. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-03-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, the hour is up for the question of "Crazy." Let me remind you that the following week, national deputies work on committees, commissions, factions, and groups. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, June 14th, at 10 a.m. Given the days before the weekend, the Conciliation Council will take place at 9 a.m. on June 14th. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck.
